ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.1.0	Good morning, the session begins. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the ple folder. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this session. So I'm telling you that Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva have announced that they have appointed Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before starting the order of the day, I must inform you, unfortunately, that the past disbanded 6 of October a woman was murdered, as a result of the male violence to Sant Joan les Fonts, to the Garrotxa. According to the official data of the Department of Interior, it is about the six-year-old fatal victim of this year, for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, as always, I regret and condemn this crime, which affects us all and everyone, and expresses the most sincere condolences to your family members. Again, I reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. [[Ask the Government about policies directed to the LGTBI collection]] [[310-00022/12]] Let's move on to the first point of the order of the day, which are the questions to answer orally to the ple. The first question to the Government, to answer orally, is about policies directed to the LGTBI collection. The question is posed by Ms. Marta Moreta, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.2.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, you know what's going on today? I don't know if you know, but I'll tell you. Four years ago, Law 11/2014 passed, to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersexual, and to eradicate homophobia, transphobia and biphobia. Casualities of the life that today, I, you ask him this question, just the day that four years ago he approved the law. Four years, counselor, four years; four years and yet the decree to regulate the sanctioning procedure has not been approved. And that, in 2016, his predecessor, already said that they already had a eraser. But, four years without passing this decree and not worth a single euro... Do you really think the collection is thinking it's taking the law seriously? I don't think so. Counselor, will you be able to deploy the law immediately? And I only talked to him about a decree, counselor. Let's go deeper: do you know that two years ago the organ that has to be coordinated by the LGTBI policies, from various departments of the Generalitat, should have been created? And what does this organ have to do to assess the social impact of the law? Well, look, counselor, that didn't happen either, and it doesn't cost a lot of money. And when will we have a presuppositional game that can face the full deployment of the law? Counselor, I expect your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.3.0	To answer, has the word the councillor Chakir the Homrani, councillor of Work, Social Afers and Families. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.4.0	Deputy..., deputies, deputies, yes, four years ago; four years ago the approval of a law that represented and represents a change; an innovative law, a law that wants to have a cross-sectional and integral deal around the LGTBI collection and the fight against discrimination in this collection. And this law is unfolding, it's unfolding with many measures. With measures around the inclusion of equal policies to the program contract; with the decree, which was approved yesterday, to Government, on the National Council of LGTBI in Catalonia; with the work around an interdepartmental plan, that exists, for the non-discrimination of people LGTBI 2018-2022; from the application of sanctions, with the limitations that the application of sanctions has. But we remember that there have been actions that, if they did not apply sanctions, they could not have done, and one was very visual, it was to prevent a bus, the D'Hazte Oir, from entering our country with a message of hatred and resentment. And many more aspects, such as the outpost of the LGTBI integrated service network, with more than fifty points across the country; aspects surrounding the formation of more than 10,000 workers and public workers in LGTBI matter; and we will continue, and we will continue to develop it. And we will also continue to work on the understanding that the sanctioning regime is more effective, in the sense that the two sanctions that there are, administratively, beyond these and the seven, that they are criminal code, we can deepen that, in any case, it is possible to give any situation... (The president removes the use of the microphone from the counselor and this one continues to speak for a few moments.) (Whispering)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.5.0	To answer the question, Ms. Marta Moreta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.6.0	Counselor, the decree is not done, the one to regulate the sanctioning regime, but what does it say? Four years, to make a decree! And let's say one thing that worries us: have you thought about developing some kind of platform to fight against the discrimination of transgender people in the world of work? Do you know that the time in this collection is 85_per_cent? What measures do you intend to take? And another thing, the president, here today, did not devote a coma, a ratella, or a phrase, to LGBTI policies. I'm sure this government isn't taking the law as it has to. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.7.0	To answer, you have the word, again, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.8.0	Thank you. Congresswoman, we take the law seriously and we will follow it seriously. And that's why we were the only territory where the bus from Hazte Oir didn't get in. And I'll keep working. I remember Additional Order number 4 of the law. And the plan we took, all of us, to make a law for non-discrimination, that you have the whole sanctioning regime, in any element of non-discrimination, also includes the LGTBI collection. Now, with the National Council, we will continue to work with the entities, in order to deepen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.9.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.10.0	[[...in order to deepen... (The President removes the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.)]] [[Ask the Government about the situation of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00031/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.201.0	The next question is about the situation of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and it is formulated by Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.11.0	Good morning to everyone, first of all, Mr. Buch, not to make any demagogic or alarmism: security in Catalonia is in a good position, the data and population surveys place it at the level of the best in Europe, but still – and at the moment, Mr. Counselor – because they are carrying it, by force of political play with their management, with the institutions that support it, and therefore, also with the workers and workers who are part of it. Workers and workers who are tired and who are, let's be clear, those who have endured this security to keep it in excellence. Public workers who perform foreign hours at the expense of the labour market; workers who still do not regulate a decent early retirement, like the rest of police officers. Some workers who, in a mobilization organized in seventy-two hours, manage to gather more than 4,500 moves and moves in the street, to manifest their commitment and to demand respect. Security in Catalonia endures thanks to the personal dedication of its workers. And, if I may, as I always say, from below; from trenches. And, speaking of the Squad Coast, the political use that they have made, counselor, and that they continue to make, is very difficult. The lack of forecasting and planning in concrete operations, as well as his contradictory speech. There's as much as repeat veterans: hold on, because they're ready, but in the end, political credit will one day be over. And to directly manage the operations, Mr. Counselor, from the political side, is a beginner's mistake, I should have known. We, the politicians, in the face of questions of security, must give the instructions of the great strategic lines. The direction to be addressed, the operational and police issues to be addressed, the police and the police, I'm sure you could explain very well the people of your department. It's not a waste of humiliation and extremes to which the squadron's cosmos template has been attached in the last few days. The same president of the Generalitat, last day 1, encouraged the CoR to continue "squeezing; of course, Mr. Counsellor, said and done; they continued "squeezing. And of course, the moves, to put up with everything. They are not the police of the CDR, nor the police for the CDR, they are the police of the people of Catalonia, of all and of all. Counselor, you feed them and then the moves have to run all the way, with obsolete and evil material. So what? I'm taking patrols to the Parliament to hold the positions, because I'm just as ashamed as I am of your Catalan sobriety. We're at the 4_on_5 level of counter-terrorism alert: don't you see it's not a waste, all that, counselor? Can't you see they can't do it anymore? Don't you see that they need recovery and support in front of the attacks they're getting? Until when, Mr. Counselor? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.12.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Miquel Buch, Counsellor d'Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.13.0	Thank you, President. Yes, Congressman, I believe that the data show the great trust of Catalan society in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, even though some pretend, therefore, to make them look as if they were a political police or as if they were a non-democratic police. And I take this opportunity, too, to show once more the support, especially to the officers of Cornellà's police station, who yesterday we learned that justice approved and gave for good the police performance that we had in front of a terrorist attack. So I made it clear that support is always with the police that guarantee democracy. You know that I have asked for a appearance, a appearance for the events that occurred to which you referred. So, we'll have time, envelopes, to talk about it and I'll answer all the questions, whatever they are. I think with these two minutes we don't have enough time and more, today we have four questions, I guess we'll talk about it, to detail everything, right? What I'm proposing is that we have the corresponding debate on the performances of September 29 and October 1, long and resolve any doubt. And that's right, I made it clear, that it's the confidence in the Police Cos, the confidence in the Squadron Mosses, and always, always, with the will to be better, we'll make self-criticism, always, always, but it's one thing that I think we have to conjure up, all folds, in our doings, not just the cops. I think you also have the self-criticism exercise, to want to get better and to be better every day, don't you? So, the same thing we do with the police, because the actions are the most appropriate, the most professional in the matter of police.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.14.0	The next question is about the neutrality of the schools and the formula of Mrs Sonia Sierra, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Ask the Government about the neutrality of schools]] [[310-00032/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.15.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the Member's intervention have not been recorded.]] Counselor..., and express, too, all my affection to the people of Mallorca. Well, counselor, a little more than a year ago, he celebrated an illegal report, where our money was embezzled and where our personal data was stolen. In fact, the person in charge of dealing with our personal data is neither more nor less than the Chairman of the Board of Education, the Young Lord. Despite all these irregularities, we have seen how, these days, schools have been used as scenes to commemorate this illegal reference. Which, he has molested many students and many families. Anyway, there's an institute in Valls, which now has a duck that's called October 1st. And not only that, since the beginning of this course, we've seen agendas with deep loops; we've seen centers with separatist propaganda, and, after all, we've seen centers with deep loops, which are the same students who take care of it, because, obviously, they bother them. [[The speaker shows a photograph to the chamber.]] Counselor, do you think for a moment how these students feel about serving the hour of the duck to break the loops? Do you think for a moment how the families who are to leave their creatures to centers full of separatist propaganda feel? Our question is: what do you plan to do to ensure neutrality at school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.16.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Bargalló, Councillor of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.17.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Schools in Catalonia are neutral and will continue to be neutral. Thank you. [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.18.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.19.0	Thank you. You see, Counselor, you obviously don't think you're doing anything to ensure neutrality at school, because for you, schools are one more tool in the service of separatism. You want to impose your monolithic idea of school. And the most obvious proof is this document for the organization and management of the centres. [[the speaker shows a document to the chamber]] , which makes it clear that the only possible language at school is Catalan. They no longer have enough that all assignments must be in Catalan; now, according to this document, it must be the language that teachers and students need to serve to relate to each other. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, point 2.1. Besides, it's got to be the language of beggars and out-of-school activities. The truth is, you don't even hide. Look, this is a sign. [[the speaker shows a sign to the camera]] of a union to which you give support, which says: "The republic begins in the classrooms. No learning began in the classrooms; no knowledge began in the classrooms: "the republic began in the classrooms. Miri, Mr. Counsellor, pass the deep ties of our schools; pass the books that they adopt from our schools...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.20.0	Mrs. Sierra, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.21.0	...and pass the political acts of our schools. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.22.0	I've got the word again for the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.23.0	Thank you, Mr. President. There are 5,465 teaching centres in Catalonia. These teaching centres are regulated by the Catalonia Education Law, which clearly specifies that these centres are autonomous in their pedagogical decisions through the Centre Education Project, and are autonomous in their linguistic decisions through the Centre Language Project. [[Sonia Sierra Infante, from the escó, shows a photograph to the counselor.]] We are not a controlling department or a department that intervenes in decisions of directions and cloisters. We don't know or want to be. Sound... [[remorse of the voice]] No, no, no, we're a department that allows center autonomy, we're a department that's next to the centers in their decisions. Our 5,465 centres have a serious problem at this time: it is the problem of who wants to enter politics in the center, of who wants to enter politics in the center chasing teachers – chasing teachers – denouncing pedagogical actions, taking the prosecutor's office to the centers... [[Sonia Sierra Infante, from the escó, shows a photograph to the counselor.]] And our duty is to be on the side of the faculty, to be on the side of the centers, and if there is any wrong action in the 5,465 centers – there is some wrong action... [[Widow's remorse. Sonia Sierra Infante, from the escó, again shows a photograph to the counselor.]] I won't change my speech, as much as you do numbers, Mrs. Sierra; I keep saying the same thing. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Our 5,465...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.24.0	You must respect whoever has the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.25.0	...centres, if there's any wrong action, the inspection is the tool. And the inspection has acted, in these cases, that by the right way they have arrived. But our 5,465 centers deserve the respect you don't give them and deserve the support you don't give them. Don't attack the school. Help us. He doesn't attack the school – he doesn't attack the school – it's for his own good. Don't attack the school. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.26.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00033/12]] The next question is about the Mossos d'Esquadra, and it is formulated by Mr Matías Alonso, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.27.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, what is the value of the current situation and of everything that has been experienced by the Squadron Mosses in the last few months, especially since you arrived at the Interior Council?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.28.0	To answer the word, Mr. Miquel Buch, Interior Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.29.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, yes, three months ago we were in the council, and in these three months we met twice at the Police Council, we had a meeting with the unions, because the situation of the tools and the resources available to the Mossos, therefore, is not at the height of its professionalism. Therefore, we are working to correct to try to rest it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.30.0	To answer the question, Mr. Alonso has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.31.0	Well, counselor, I don't know if you are aware of this, but police action in accordance with the democratic order is essential to protect the free exercise of the fundamental rights and to ensure citizen security. You, together with the entire chain of command, are most responsible for maintaining the prestige of the Squadron Mosses and also for maintaining the morale of their agents. Unfortunately, his actions, and those of his predecessors, have damaged the prestige of the Mossos, divided the body and undermined the morale of the agents, due to the situation of physical and legal insecurity that they are living continuously. On September 29, you allowed the violent people to take over the Mosos in the streets, with the order to maintain a passive attitude that was completely impossible to maintain. October 1st, you have put in a difficult situation of risk many agents, such as, for example, at the station of the AVE of Girona, in which the agents were ordered not to act before the violent, or with the deployment with a scandalous lack of effect that was made at the gates of this Parliament. Disbanding agents have come out on the street a while more to claim their rights. They demand dignity and respect, and also that they not be served with the political police. Agents are very aware that the prestige of the body has been put at risk, a prestige that is very easy to lose and very difficult to win. His actions, his public statements, the last months go against the morals and the prestige of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. The Mosses are not and can never be a political police. They are the guarantors of security and the free exercise of the fundamental rights, in the framework of democratic order. They're, for all intents and purposes, law servants. They are police, as they have let their National Police compañeros applaud this dissabte, before the prefecture of Via Laietana. Counselor, are you willing to respect the Mosses and everyone and every citizen of Catalonia? If it's not like that, it's better if it folds. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.32.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.33.0	Thank you, President. I think the question should be asked of you, Mr. Alonso, huh? Because you've talked about prestige, but I haven't been out with a union manager on a press wheel, there's someone from your party – from the Mossos. So, who has used the Mosses somehow I have not been, but you have been. That you here make a speech of respect to the Mossos and to professionalism, but then you have a series of hooligans on the street who keep saying that the police of Catalonia are a political police, when it really is the opposite. But we already know, that you... Yesterday, look, yesterday – and I finish, we will go through with it – Mr. Carrizosa, yesterday, concretely, said: « let the police be respected again. So the best they can do is call Mrs. Arrimadas and Mr. Girauta, because they've publicly said that the police in Catalonia don't have to respect and disobey her. [[Widow's remorse.]] Learn from you – learn from you – to obey and respect the police of Catalonia [[applause]] That she's a democratic cop. And when I just respected her and obeyed her, from here on out, I didn't know what speeches to make here, more populists than not reasonable and serious. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.34.0	The next question is about the removal of Francoist symbolism from squares and squares. [[Ask the Government about the removal of Francoist symbolism from squares and squares]] [[310-00036/12]] And the formula is Mr Marc Sanglas of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.35.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, the next October 15th is a commemoration of the seventy-eighth anniversary of the collapse of President Companies, one of the 3,358 Catalans executed and of the 65,000 people retaliated in summary trials, in war councils that violated all rights of defence, and in any case it served to justify political repression. Unfortunately, there is not much to go on in the current instructions of the same look as at that time. Some tell us to pass the page, not to re-open wounds. We would say that what we need to do precisely is to lock up some wounds that still remain open. And we had a clear example a few weeks ago in the Valley of the Fallen, when some people claimed or protested against the transfer of the dictator's remains, forty-three years later. These protests are the evidence that fascism is alive, that this fascism acts, that fascism acts in our cities. And precisely a week ago we also had the attack of a photojournalist in the city of Barcelona, precisely by some member of the security forces and bodies of the State. We understand that some would want to return to silence time. Some now call it political neutrality, modernise language, but in any case it is the same as always: empty and grey streets so that no one can express discontent, advocates of prohibition re-prohibition and that the multitude of colors with which this country expresses itself are reduced to the black of repression and self-censorship. They are the same people who ask for decorations from those who stunned our people at the door of the electoral colleges and who want to mount a show trying to explain a more sought-after than real division. Our streets and places have always been the expression of a multitude of popular sentiments, cultural expressions, festive expressions, and political expressions as well. And that won't change anyone. And that's how we're supposed to feel about our streets and places: festivals, joy and expression. This expression has also been seen in the political rule changes, and unfortunately we have been seeing as at the end of time the streets and places of our country were taking nominators and pheasist symbolism. Luckily, some of them have been eliminated from everything, but there are still some vestiges that are part of our reality. We are also concerned that this fascism continues to live among people, and, therefore, further away from eliminating the physical traces of the fascism nomenclature, we understand that we must also strive to work on educational aspects, because the people who forget their past are condemned to repeat it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.36.0	Congressman, time's up. [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] Congressman, congressman, he's running out of time. [[Rialles.]] It has the word the Councillor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.37.0	Good morning, President. Thank you, President. MPs, MP Bloods, a town without memory is a town without access to the truth; where there is no memory there can be no truth and therefore there can be no justice. The Government of Catalonia, the Government of the Generality has the responsibility to draw up and submit a draft comprehensive law of memory that harmonizes the entire legal body that exists at this time and that gives response to the demands of civil society, to the right to the memory of the citizenry and to the duty of memory, to the obligation that states have to repair and, therefore, to make memory. Therefore, we are determined to promote a draft law that allows us to overcome the limitations of State Law 52/2007, which for us is not an authentic law of memory. I therefore call on this House, all the parliamentary groups, to help us make this whole law possible. The Government of Catalonia has shown a firm commitment to public memory policies. Catalonia has been at the forefront of democratic memory policies and must therefore have an integrated law that adapts the practice of Catalan public powers to the standards in force in the field. That is to say, the country must have a law that is in line with the principles of transitional justice. What does that mean? So guarantee the right to the truth, guarantee the right to justice, guarantee the right to reparation and establish mechanisms to guarantee non-repetition. And that includes the education system and other subjects. Forty-two years of the Civil War, forty-two years of democracy without this assignment having been resolved, still pending. It's a thing that prevents us from closing a past with dignity and looking at the future with confidence and confidence. We must fight silence, we must fight oblivion. We want to do memory policies and we need to have a comprehensive legislative instrument. We are compromised, the Government of Catalonia is committed to removing all Francoist symbolism from the squares and streets of our towns and cities. Because we can't close the wounds, because we have to close the pain, because we can't do it if we live with those symbols that have humiliated the losers of the Civil War and the victims of the franchise. That's why we want to make a law that allows the government of Catalonia to remove the Franco symbols from the street...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.38.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.39.0	I'm done. This includes monuments... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.40.0	Thank you, Counselor. They demand that they aim to manage better the time they have, huh? [[Ask the Government about the withdrawal of deposits from the main banking entities in October 2017]] [[310-00037/12]] The following question is asked by Mrs Raquel Sans, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and it is about the withdrawal of deposits from the main banking entities on October 2017. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.41.0	Thank you, President. Ask the vice president. This weekend, the newspaper Ara public what we all understand is that it is now on paper: October 1st, the Spanish State did not only exercise violence against the citizens and the citizens who made the reference possible, but also started a brutal war to destabilise the Catalan economy; a brutal war, because it has no other name, which involves a very serious irresponsibility and which prevents the economic well-being and stability of all Catalans, whether they are independent as if they are not. Lately, we felt that the Rajoy government and the 155 block were warning of a possible escape from business because of the instability that, according to them, provoked a democratic referendum. What they did not explain was that this economic instability, which could have had lethal effects for the Catalan economy, caused them. We learned that the Rajoy government withdrew some €35,000_million from the Catalan banks in bank deposits after October 1, an operation that could have carried the panic to the Catalan banks with the consequent impact on the economy. Between dilluns and post-October 1, CaixaBank lost an 8_percent of the value of its shares; the Sabadell, up to a 12_per_cent. And to stop this bleeding, they changed yours. And, oh, surprise, after having abandoned Catalonia, it wanted 80 percent of the funds that the State had withdrawn came back. But it wasn't just the Sabadell and the Caixa, it was 3,700 Catalan companies that were forced to move their company. Despite the pressure, only one hundred companies with the highest turnover in Catalonia changed their company, in their majority – oh, by chance – of the index of the IBEX 35. The productive and multinational industry, companies like the chemical cluster of Tarragona, such as BASF, have remained, despite the pressures and threats. He mentioned the band and deserved the pressure of the head of the Spanish State, Mr. Felipe VI, who, in an action that might qualify as state terrorism, called multinational companies like SEAT to leave the country. We suppose that the 14,500 workers the company has in Catalonia – certainly the company with the most workers in the country – for the monarch and for the block of 155 must be a lesser evil. In this case, from the Republican Group we would like to know what is the government's understanding of the withdrawal of deposits from the country's main banking entities during last October 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.42.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr Pere Aragonès, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History. When you say so, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.43.0	Thank you very much, President. My honourable Member, before answering your question, allow me to take the opportunity to address the plenary today, express the support of the Government of Catalonia to the people of Mallorca, to the Government of the Balearic Islands and, as I have personally been able to do with some of my colleagues in the Government of Catalonia, to make available the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Catalonia to improve the difficult situation, in order to be able to alleviate the difficult situation after the aid to the Portant de Mallorca area. In response to the honourable Member's question, we certainly attended a state operation last October. A state operation aimed at destabilising the Catalan economy in order to destabilise the democratic will of the citizens of Catalonia. It was meant to generate a snowball effect and God's faith that they got that part of it that way. And, therefore, it will be necessary to investigate which were the actions, which were the decisions that were taken in the treasury of the main public enterprises of the State respecting the change of deposits in financial entities. And, therefore, we would demand in all the lives that we have in our midst, from the same government, but there will also be different parliamentary groups in the field of the General Courts, the maximum information on this issue. It wasn't just in the context of the pressure that we were dealing with, there was a late moment in the past of economic estimates that drew that today the country would be plunged into a total economic disaster. One year later, the Catalan economy is growing to 3.1_percent of gross domestic product in the first half of the year, we are back to an absolute record of exports, we are at the lowest level of the year 2008. Despite all the challenges we have, the Catalan economy, our society has shown that it can be superimposed – it can be superimposed – on attacks that can be organized for the State, for these powers of the State that brought to an end a real brutal war. It seems, therefore, that Article 2 of the Spanish Constitution passes before the financial instability, passes before the division of powers, passes before the democratic capture that the institutions must hold. And, of course, the Government of Catalonia is committed to making those responsible for this risk account; it gives accounts not only before the citizenry, not only before the possible legal responsibilities, but also before the Community's supervisory bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.44.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the political pressure that led to the transfer of businesses and banks out of Catalonia]] [[310-00038/12]] The next question is about the political pressure that led to the transfer of businesses and banks out of Catalonia, and the formula Mrs Teresa Pallarès, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.45.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor Chacón, I will ask you my question about the report that has taken place on the flight of entrepreneurs. It won't surprise him that we were many people who were very surprised not so much by the change of their social partners, that somehow it's a common practice in the business world, but by the use of the partyer and very badly intended by some political forces that irresponsibly correlated the political situation of abnormality to a demagogic wear and tear in terms of economy. It's been almost a year since we read these news on the subject, as if it's drawn from a frivolous boxing ball, as a metric thermometer for a political moment to fall independenceist into our home. A truly unsustainable speech for all those who have or may have some day aspirations to rule Catalonia. A speech, however, that began to break when the State articulated, a few days after the 1st of October, the Decree Ill 15/2017, of 6th of October, that fed this escape. It should be pointed out that at those times some employers showed themselves to be absolutely against it and others came to recognize that the impact would be low or moderate. Therefore, there was also confusion in the same sector. An intense and evil campaign of the power of the State to which Philip VI was added in his famous October 3rd speeches. That day he lost respect for many Catalans and many Catalans. Much harder still seems to me what appears in the press these days on the withdrawal of many millions of Catalan banks, especially Sabadell and CaixaBank, from public enterprises and state administrations; a first-rate financial stampede that will surely someday have to be held to account with justice, as many economists and lawyers think. And, lords of Ciutadans, they have managed, you see for where, another way to internationalize this process, because these two banks are classified in the category of other entities of systemic importance and some explanation will have to be given from Europe. In short, an intense campaign against the Catalan economy used as a weapon to strain the politics of our home for the block of 155. In view of these facts, counsel, what is the Government's view of the political pressure that caused this transfer of businesses and banks outside Catalonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.46.0	To answer the word the counselor..., ma'am Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.47.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Obviously, now we have spoken, there has been a rule of action by the Spanish Government, on the part of the Spanish Government, to undermine economic stability in Catalonia. It began with the government's financial intervention in mid-September of last year. The violence that was seen in the repression actions of our right to vote October 1 also impacted, and much, even the international community. The withdrawal of funds from banking entities, which we have now discussed. Also this decree of 6 October that under a pretext of extraordinary and urgent need to favor the freedom of establishment of enterprises in the Spanish State, therefore, allowed that it was not as it was until then, because this freedom was perfectly guaranteed..., that it was not the board of shareholders, but the board of directors who could decide on the transfer of their enterprises' socials. So, we mean... we believe in freedom of business, but we don't think you're free when there's pressure. And this pressure has been exerted – recently it has been done – with various business tricks. This set of orchestrated actions for the Spanish government have counted on the invaluable help of many political parties, some political parties, communication media and, as you have also mentioned, badly, business entities. But reality ends up imposing itself and this catastrophic report, therefore, was buried for the reality of the results of the indicators. We acted rigorously, wanted to do a study on the transfer of companies, we told ourselves that of the 618,000 companies that there are in the Catalan territory, a 0.59_per_cent were transferred; an 80_per_cent, service sector – has also been mentioned – many of them, therefore, linked to the finance sector, etc. Miri, when we begin to feel that some political parties, some of you talk about the actions of our productive economy and leave this catastrophic report, we will start to believe that they are interested in jobs and businesses in Catalonia. When we begin to feel that they are worth what they really are, as I said, these acts, we will start to believe that the places of work worry them. Because, as I said, when the activities of the productive economy, our economy that we want to be sustainable, inclusive, open to the world, then, as they are exposed, they will be in the midst of what this report is trying to offer our economy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.48.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.49.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.50.0	...time is running out. [[Ask the Government about the return of the rights of public workers]] [[310-00039/12]] The next question is about the return of the rights of public workers and the formulation by Mrs Anna Erra, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.51.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Puigneró, for the communication media we have learned that the Government of the Generality has made an agreement with the majority unions to return the rights of the public workers who lost during the crisis. As a parliamentary group, we are not happy and above all we are not happy about the public servants, because they have suffered hard, therefore, the effects of the crisis; they have also suffered the pressure that the Spanish State made during the 155's time, and, above all, what we must thank them here is their professionalism and their commitment to the institutions. For this reason, today we are glad that they can finally have good news. But above all we are also glad that it has seven ways, within the Public Employees Negotiating Table, of reaching an agreement, an agreement, an agreement, a dialog, and being able to achieve two great agreements: a first that is the increment of the 1.95_percent of the wage mass, the maximum allowable for the State. And the other, above all, is that they can perceive the cent_per_cent of the remuneration at any time of down payment from the first day and for any reason. For these agreements, we, like Juntes for Catalonia, are satisfied and we congratulate him on this agreement. Also, this is why we would like to ask you how you have done or how you intend to focus on how you can recover the rights that still remain to be perceived, as can be above all the external payments of 2013 and 2014, that you know that between unions and you, like the Government, have the will to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.52.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.53.0	Thank you, President. Member, indeed, let's start my intervention with an acknowledgment, precisely, therefore, to all the workers of the Generality and also to the union, because these first months we have conjured ourselves to recover part of the rights lost during these years. In fact, the Generality's workers have had to deal with two crises, the economic crisis and the 155 crisis, and that's why my thanks for all their hard work and unwise professionalism, say, the situation they've had to deal with all these years. Miri, the first decision I made as a counselor – one of the first – was precisely to start conversations with the unions and urge to put date at the first general table to precisely address the two themes you have commented on. These two themes, which were important themes, such as that of remuneration and also the topic of IT, have been resolved favorably, despite the fact that the first table, the one of July, was not possible the agreement, but that the agreement was reached to return from vacation, concretely to the table of September 18, and that we must congratulate ourselves, because this was for the benefit of the workers. So let's state that the government is coming next week to approve the law to make these two agreements that were produced at the table a few weeks ago. And, second of all, we actually still have a big duet pending, which is the return of the 2013 and 2014 foreign payments. Look, because this is possible we will have to work together, in this case with the Government of the State, because the Presuppositional Enabling Law and, in concrete terms, the expenditure rule, so let us do it. And, for that reason, I already announce that the week I have a meeting, a bilateral meeting with Minister Batet where the first point of the order of the day will be precisely to deal with this matter. Because we understand that, to make it possible, we must finally be able to produce it in bilateral negotiations with the State. In this sense, also say that this will not distract us from negotiating and continuing to negotiate with the unions the calendar to be able to make effective these salaries that remain..., which are pending, from the year 13 and 14, in the presupposition of 2019. This is the government's will and, therefore, the will...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.54.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.55.0	...to return these payments. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the management of security done by the Department of Interior]] [[310-00035/12]] Okay. The next question is about the management of security done by the Department of Interior, and it is formulated by Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.56.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. To show our solidarity with the people of Mallorca for the climate sickness they have suffered. Counselor, do you think the Squad Squad Squad is gaining confidence, operationality and social prestige with your decisions and your team's?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.57.0	To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.58.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, yes, thank you, that's the point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.59.0	To answer, again, has the word Deputy Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.60.0	Counselor, a parliamentary group is speaking to him that has never – and never in the future – made a mockery of security policies. He talks to him, counselor, a parliamentary group that has always – and also in the future – given support to the Cos dels Mossos d'Esquadra, our police. But, Counselor, we are concerned – we are concerned – because you have been taking a follow-up of decisions that we think do not help. It began with controversial decisions such as strengthening the political direction of the body over the traditional criteria of professionalism that ancient advisors had maintained. He continued with a contradictory management of an insufficient and unmotivated template for freezing and retailing. The complaints of mayors and mayors of all political colors for lack of effect are a reality. You already know, especially you, that the mayors are also the view of the territory and are not complaining for pleasure, so listen to them. They have followed the worrying data of accidents and robberies, surely affected, these data, due to the lack of effectiveness. We have also seen massive demonstrations of moves demanding labor rights and professional criteria at the time of planning your task. And now we have the disastrous operations of September 29th and October 1st. To whom he listened, counselor, allow the Jusapol to parade through the center of Barcelona, proudly satisfied with the fucking shots of '1 October. It was, and you knew, a full-fledged provocation. Nor can I trust President Torra's well-intentioned opinion – I repeat, well-intentioned – to scale the security operation, October 1, in the Parliament of Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.61.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.62.0	...professional criteria. [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.63.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.64.0	Thank you, President. He's told me a lot of things. I told him I wouldn't make a fuss either, did I? And, therefore, you know that they did not reinforce the political criteria of the department. I suppose that's about the commissioner's appointment to the chap. We were two, three weeks without commissari in the head, it's true, but it didn't strengthen, because the same structure was there before and the same before; therefore, it's the same. Therefore, in no case has the political structure before the professionalism of the Cos de Mossos strengthened. He said that the mayors of Catalonia say we need more movement. Here, that's what I'm saying! I asked the minister, we didn't ask 1,500, did we? Because six years ago, they don't do promotions. And three days ago we were, to hear us, huh? Three months ago. So..., or four. Therefore, we have asked for more promotions from Mossos d'Esquadra. And yes, we do have debts; we have debts with the workers, we have debts with the labor collection, we have them. And that's why we've worked and that's why we've done, as I said before, two meetings with the police, with the unions, to advance on all those rights that they don't have, or that they've lost, or that the department hasn't completed. We're working hard. He talked about Jusapol. Miri, I have said more than once, to me, people of grace that Jusapol is manifesti... – I think it was with all provocation –, that it is manifesti here, in Barcelona, around the 1st of October. I think it was with you provoked. But you already know what Voltaire says, huh? "I don't share what you think, but I would do what I did because I could say it, right? And the right to manifest itself, today, is an inalienable right that we must respect. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.65.0	Please respect who has the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.66.0	In fact, I think he's fighting more democracy, not jumping police strings and going to seek violent conflict with other people. So, fexism is fighting here with more democracy, not jumping police strings. And, I say, you, like me, know that the 155, that the Government of the Spanish State is trying to create a false account of a problem of coexistence in this country. You know as well as I do, that's not true. That's someone who's dedicated to explaining that this is it. And it's not like that. Therefore, help us to respect...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.67.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.68.0	...this story about the eating of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.69.0	Once the questions to the Government are finished, let's go to the questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is the formula... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me, excuse me, you're right. [[Ask the Government about the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00034/12]] The next question, yes, is about the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra, and it is formulated by Mr Xavier García Albiol, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.70.0	Yes, Mr. President. Counselor, a few days ago we were able to listen – we were stunned by the majority of men and women in this country – as the President of the Government encouraged the CoRs to continue "squeezing. A few hours after this pen, the CDR tried to assault this house, which represents the democracy and sovereignty of the people of Catalonia. Counselor, as the most responsible of the security and law enforcement forces in Catalonia, agrees and shares the expressions that the President of the Generalitat made that day, encouraging the CDRs to continue "squeezing?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.71.0	To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.72.0	Thank you, President. Yes, Congressman, you know as well as I do that, beyond the media show that some people claim, you know what the president said and you know well what he meant. And in no case does it refer to anything other than the election compliment or electoral commitments we have as parliamentary groups, as I assume you have them. Therefore, he did not cry out more with than with us. Just as I ask you, who are the opposition, who "press me," who "press me," and who I do the best work. And, therefore, these four questions, for me it is to squeeze me and try to make my work better.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.73.0	To answer, has the word, again, Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.74.0	Miri, Mr. Counsellor, we don't have to "squeeze it, what we have to do is demand that you do your job well. And for now, he's not doing it. That's what we have to do as opposed. And what you should do, as the most responsible for security, is publicly call attention to the President of the Generality for his statements, among other things, to give support to thousands of people, men and women who are under his dependence on the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. One thing, the Mosso d'Esquadra, which has the support of the People's Party – it has always held it – and, as such, we demand that it'regret with respect. We demand that you do not use it politically. Before you pointed out, in another intervention, that there are some, therefore, who pretend to make you see that there is a political police. No, if we do not pretend; on the contrary, most of us are complaining – we are complaining – about the willingness of your government to use the Squadron Mosses as a political police. And you know, because that's it, that the only ones who use the police as the political police are those rules where a dictatorship has been established. Therefore, we would encourage them to try to correct this behavior. Mr. Buch, you, or your government, have achieved a fact that was unthinkable a while ago, and it is that the men and women who form part of the Squadron Mosses come out on the street to express themselves against, precisely, this political use. For this reason, I want to convey to you, on behalf of my group, the utmost respect, that I let the police work, that I let them act professionally, because they are, and in a way important force. Because when the police are used for political purposes what they're doing is polluting and perverting the system. And, given this case, to which we would encourage is to the main group of this Parliament, to the Ciutadans Group, to which once and for all...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.75.0	Mr. García Albiol, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.76.0	...make a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.77.0	I've got the word again for the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.78.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, you have noses, you have a lot of noses to tell me that, a lot of noses and a lot of big ones! You're the ones responsible for us having seventy-two officers of the Squad Mosos brought to justice. You're responsible for the state's keyloggers. You are responsible for using police commanders to go against a political and democratic process. That you want to give lessons to me have noses, lots of noses! We already know that the Spanish State is said to: « Believe the thief that everyone is of his condition. Is that so? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, miri, we're not about your condition. We're a democratic police force. [[applause]] Either we have a democratic police force that we won't use – we won't use it – or we'll use the police to make false investigations, to publish false news just before elections, and to drop democratic elections. We don't play this. And that's why squad moss is respected in this country, because people, Catalans and Catalans want a democratic police. And that's why we reject police attitudes and political attitudes as demonstrated with the Government of the People's Party in the Spanish State, using the Spanish police, the bones and security forces, for the pro-political benefit, which was theirs. So you have noses that you want to give seconds of lessons. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.79.0	Now yes, once you finish the questions to the Government, let's go to the questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generality about his political project]] [[317-00015/12]] I the first the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the lady Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.80.0	Yes, good morning, President. We heard him talk about justice, we heard him talk about ecology, about feminism, and, finally, about putting life in the center. But yesterday they showed us that their political project does not pass either through independence or through sovereignty. Yesterday, Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia stood against defending the right to housing and guaranteeing the basic sub-administrations of the people. They stood against defending a decent wage, against a public bank, against a public health and education 100_per_cent. It is a shame, Mr President, to pursue and criminalize political dissent and the right to protest. It is a shame that in Catalonia there are 1,700 anti-fouling mosses, between Brimo and ARRO, and that the denunciations are his main task. It is a shame, Mr. Torra, that you endorse police violence against popular movement in defense of self-determination. She's a disgrace that swallows the violence against the anti-feixist movement. Mr. Aragones says the economy is growing. How is the economy growing? Do you know that 25_percent of the population of Catalonia collects less than 1,000_euros per month, while the wealth of the economic elite has increased by 13_percent annually? How will 32_percent of those who cannot cope with eventualities? , 9_percent of the population that is in poor energy, now and today? What's his political project?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.81.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.82.0	Thank you, President. Thank you all. I would also like to express, as was done by other members of the Chamber groups, our solidarity with the people of Mallorca, and to say to them, too, that we have made contact with them if we need any kind of help. Our political project I think we've expressed very well. We have expressed it very well in the investiture debate and we have expressed it very well in the Pla de Govern that we defended last week in this chamber. We're still thinking exactly the same thing. And we still think we're counting on the same supports to get it out of the way. I mean, we've put the people at the center of our government plate. Because you don't have any sense of doing it any other way. We govern for people, from the first day we govern for people. And the first measure taken by the Government is precisely to allocate more than EUR 250 million to housing policies – the first measure taken by the Government. And I can tell you all the other social measures that we've been taking at the length of all these four months that we're carrying. Because here it's obvious, there are always those who tell us that we're just for the monotheme and there are those who tell us that we don't deal with the real problems of the people. So this government does both. This government has set itself the irrevocable goal: to make the Catalan Republic and to rule from the very first moment. And that's what we're doing. I've visited hospitals, I've visited commissioners, I've visited schools, I've met with no papers, I've opened the Generalitat ports in case the refugees want to come in. We have set up a range of social policies and economic progress, because I have also met with entrepreneurs, because this country also needs to create wealth, wealth that we can divide among all. And I think, exactly, that we need to focus more on that, and that's what I expect your help from, and that's what I have all my complicity in, it's just to get old because everybody in this country, everybody, has the same opportunities to pull forward. And, therefore, be very curios with the social fracture, which is this, when there are people who stay behind and can't pull their life project forward, it's because of physical impediments, it's because of economic impediments, it's because of social impediments. We'll be right next to him and he'll always find us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.83.0	To answer the question, you have the word Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.84.0	Yes, Mr. President. We wanted him at our side yesterday when we defended public health and education. This rhetoric, progressive and processist, we know it very well. In practice, it means following what the Spanish State says; in practice, it means continuing to consolidate retailing and privatization; in practice, it means presenting assumptions that make the working class evil; with our support, no, president, with the support of the CUP, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.85.0	The following question about the political situation was formulated by Ms.Jessica Albiach on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the global offer of agreement for the approval of assumptions proposed for the coordinator of Catalonia En Comú]] [[317-00018/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.86.0	Good morning, President. This week, the coordinator of Catalonia in Comú and Mayoress of Barcelona, Ada Colau, publicly demanded a great deal of agreement to approve the assumptions of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, the Government of the Generality and the Government of the Assembly of Barcelona to guarantee the basic public services of Catalans and Catalans. And before this offer, we'd like to know what his father and his government's father are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.87.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.88.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Thank you. We, it is clear, what we are already carrying from the legislature, from the investiture speech, from the general policy debate that we did this week, which is our position and which are the partners with whom we want to negotiate the assumptions, I think it has become very clear that they are the CUP and they are you. It's these guys that we feel in tune with so we can push these assumptions forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.89.0	To answer, you have the word again to Mrs. Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.90.0	Mr President, we have already told you who our conditions are to approve some assumptions to the Government of the Generality and, in any case, what we are talking about is a much larger thing, which is to guarantee public services, and that is why we need a great deal of agreement to follow all administrations globally. We have some waiting lists for public residents who are the longest in the whole State, you don't have a euro in the financing of schools in Brazil because they say they don't have money, they don't have money in the CAP, they don't have teachers and teachers in schools, we have higher university fees than the whole State, and we have people who want to go to college and can't pay it. We are the only territory, and now it has just been said, that we have not yet returned the 2013 and 2014 extra payments to the workers and public workers. And, in addition, I need to put the bottle of the logger in an urgent way, because we are the territory of the State where there are more denunciations and we are the territory of the State where the price of the logger has been higher. That is why we are not asking that no one give up their maximum, which we say is that, in order to solve these urgent needs for citizenship, we all come to a minimum agreement, and that is why we call for responsibility. It's not just about general assumptions, it's about a big global agreement of assumptions, and it's about being on our side when we're going to tell Pedro Sánchez that we won't support the assumptions if we don't reform the law to limit the price of the logger, because we're in a desperate situation and that we can put the logger's bomb already. So, it's not just looking small and looking at Catalonia, but it's looking in an integral way, it's looking big, and also guaranteeing and not leaving alone the gatherings that are giving their face in many questions on the Generality, so far, has gone hand in hand. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.91.0	To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.92.0	And totally agree, we are talking about all these issues, but one, one, is left to us, important; one, to us, in which we said that we focused the centre of our political action: the right of self-determination. You, what is the proposal... in this three-way pact between the State, the Assembly and the Government of the Generality, how do you play with the right to self-determination? Who is the limit that you have to reach an agreement with the State on the right to self-determination? Because that's the point. I insist that this is the point. Here we have these deep loops that represent something, that they have to ask us every day. We have political prisoners and exiles, and they are political prisoners and exiles because they organized a reference for self-determination in Catalonia. And this is the central theme of this legislature: we have to solve it. And I know that you, on the right to self-determination, are close, the defense – they are close, the defense. Yesterday they voted some things a little strange, then we'll talk about it. [[Widow's remorse.]] But at these times, with the Government of the State, we, at these heights, have not received any response to the petitions that we have made, and that is why I said what I said in the general policy debate: we need Mr. Pedro Sánchez, before November, to do a gesture and explain – yes, yes, explain – if there is a reference granted on the table? Or do you want to continue with this condition? It's just that I'm in a hurry to get the political prisoners out of jail. [[Greetings.]] It's me, me, I'm dying to embrace President Puigdemont, the Marta Rovira, here in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] It's that Catalans are in a hurry to exercise the right of self-determination. That's the question. And they are also in a hurry, obviously, about the social fracture – and I hope that we will talk about it later, this late, in the debate of coexistence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.93.0	President, he's running out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.94.0	In the cohabitation debate, thank you! [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about how to continue to govern and build confidence in the citizenry]] [[317-00014/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.95.0	The next question about the political situation, the formula Mr Miquel Iceta, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.96.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I also take this opportunity to show the solidarity of our group with the tragedy that is taking place at these moments in Sant Llorenç. And now I move on to the question. Mr President, the last few days are accumulating, from our point of view, worrying signs of disorientation, division and instability in your government and the majority that supports it. My question is what do you plan to do with respect, how do you plan to continue to rule? Don't you think it would be good to give some strong signal why you return your trust?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.98.0	It's that we're in a political conflict gravity– gravity. It's that this is the theme: we're in a serious political conflict. And to respond to repression, therefore, there are Members who answer in one way and there are Members who answer in another. But this government has been ruling since the first moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.99.0	Got the word again Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.100.0	Thank you, Mr. President. It does the effect, and you have said it, that the only one that unites the government is to stand until the sentence and then call elections. We believe that this is not the best way to serve the interests of the country. We believe, moreover, that they are making the mistake of the last, of setting dates, of putting conditions impossible to complete, as you also put them to the Catalan National Assembly. It's the mistake of everything or nothing. It's the mistake of thinking only in one part of the country, and a mistake even bigger when there's no majority. We believe that taking advantage of the opportunity to have a government in Spain willing to dialogue, and in order to strengthen the government's negotiating position, would be convinced that the proposals that are made, if they involve constitutional and institutional changes, have the support, as a minimum, of two thirds of Parliament. Of course, yesterday, self-determination, it is not that you have two thirds, it is that you did not have either an absolute majority or a simple majority. Mr President, the current situation in the country, in our view, requires a dialogue. Dialogue about the future, but also dialogue about the present. Dialeg Catalunya endins and Dialeg Catalunya enfora. Dialeg des de respect et pour promoture respect. Respect all ideas. Respect for the institutions. Respect for the legality and the instruments and majorities to change it. Mr. President, we approved a resolution before the summer in which you were compromised – better said – to build a dialog space. It was urgent then, we think today is even more so. The political situation in the country is not desirable. And I agree with you, there are very deep political problems. We do not want to go through this situation as normal, but precisely because of this, we insist even more on the need for a dialect that you, if you want, would be on condition to lead, to encapsulate or to lay the conditions on it. May the work, president, do it for the country, for the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.101.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.102.0	Thank you, and thank you for this intervention, I appreciate it. We have said that we will never abandon the flag of the dial, ever. Another thing is to see if from the Spanish State, this flag of the dial is something more than rhetorical, why so far what has happened? No, no, is that what's happened now? Where are our deputies? No, it's that, the theme, really, it's that theme, it's that theme. Get out of this Parliament, ask people what they're worried about right now. They're worried... yes, yes, yes, they're worried about the situation of political prisoners and exiles, because that's polluting the whole political atmosphere. [[Widow's remorse.]] It is impossible, we said from the first moment, it is impossible to pretend to speak that we are in a situation of political normality. We are in a situation of political exceptionality and we must repeat ourselves absolutely every day. And how do we solve it? Speaking. And I committed myself in the general policy debate to pushing forward the initiative that was adopted in this Parliament, because here we complement the resolutions that are adopted in this Parliament, so we will push them forward. [[Widow's remorse.]] And so much so! And so much so! Therefore, the flag of the dial is not concerned that it will always be there. It'll always be there. It's more, even all the messages that come from prison and exile are always on the dial. All right, all right, all right, all President Puigdemont, when he is moving from Europe, who is moving not as a fugitive, but as a Democrat, as a Democrat, explains his lectures, and he is moving for all countries with complete freedom, while the other prisoners are in prison here in Spain. President Puigdemont always calls the dialy. Vice President Junqueras always calls the dialy. All the way from the prison we're always calling the dialy. Therefore, the dialog will always be there, but President Sánchez's credit has run out. That's what they need to hear. We need an offer already over the table, already, because if not the game of... I said it the first day when I went to see Pedro Sánchez : I hope it does not follow a photo, which we are here today. And I'm afraid the one we took that day was just a picture. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.103.0	The next question is about the latest political developments and is formulated by Mr Sergi Sabrià, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the establishment of a joint strategy to tackle social and national challenges]] [[317-00016/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.104.0	Good morning, President. Good morning. Once again, difficult days come, difficult for all those who believe democracy. We are at the gates of an unjust judgment now, and we must make this injustice known to everyone. And we get there again after a bad late, after a situation that we interpret differently, but I'm sure in something we agree, that today we're less strong than yesterday, today we're a little more weak without most. But despite that, we have to move forward. It would be unforgivable not to walk together on the days that are coming, because the objectives we share are much stronger – much stronger – than the tactical differences, and the objectives and the country must always be above. The objectives: to make independence, independence as a tool to build a better country for everyone. Defend those who suffer from oppression, exile and repression. Focus all our efforts on social policies that allow us to help those Catalans who today have it harder. They are shared objectives and superior to the differences, which go beyond the proclamations of dignity. And defending it together is compatible, as we have shown once again, with different political visions, it is compatible with right and left. And it's not just compatible, but diversity makes us all stronger. But in change, when the strategic dispersion takes over our path, we are weaker. Therefore, our question today is very clear, President. Divendres, with the vice president, and in open, before all the citizens of Catalonia, proposed to work a joint strategy. We're there! In this repression and right-wing scene, with company in prison, we can't wait a minute longer. We face the challenges facing the country, social challenges and national challenges. The unit of action can't wait any longer. We have put into effect his proposal, his, president, and that of the vice president. Catalonia demands it. We put forth our efforts, we put forth our generosity, we put forth the courage you need, but we do it, and we do it now. It is the great country consensus that has allowed us to move forward, and requires time and shared leadership. You can do it, you can do it again. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.106.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Actually, huh? I share this diagnosis. I also want to put on the table the fact that we are coming; that is to say, we come from a debate of investment, with contractual commitments, we come from a debate on the general policy debate of the country, with concrete, public and manifest commitments, and that we are seeing the following: the Social and Constituent Civic Forum; the character of the Generality in all the processes in which Catalan reprisals have been affected as a popular accusation; the Civil Rights Office laid on the march; this idea of mobilization, of the march for civil, social and constituent rights, I think that here, above all, we have to do strong, effectively, and even for a sense of responsibility, of the country. At this point in this country, we all need to get back the first of October's experience, it's the best we've ever been able to express Catalans in the last few years, that electric spirit, that spirit that mobilized us all, and that together we got a tape that seemed impossible, because we won the impossible, the first of October. And, therefore, I who also call him is to get that spirit back. That spirit is a double spirit, it's a spirit of defense, it's a spirit of disobedience and it's a spirit of resistance, but above all it's a spirit of victory. And what we need, precisely, at the time of, all folds, to create this moment that I think we need to create among all folds, is to get that spirit back. Look, I know I don't come from any political party, I just come from the bases of independence: d'Omnium, from the Assembly... I feel very close to what the street can be feeling today. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry for all the people, the one who's been here these days in Parliament. And I think exactly with the vice president we were able to do this exercise to say: "It's true, we have come to a point where we need concreteness, we need to send a clear, powerful message, we need this leadership. I know, here I am. But we come from where we come. We'll get back the first of October, we'll get back the political declaration of independence on the 27th of October, and forward, all together, forward. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.107.0	The next question is about the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the repressive operation of the State against Catalonia from the withdrawal of bank deposits by the State]] [[317-00019/12]] The formula Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.108.0	Thank you, President; many thanks, President Torrent. In the first place, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, show all the support to the people of Mallorca before the tragic events that took place yesterday and, therefore, all the solidarity, as it cannot be otherwise. President Torra, well..., and Mr. Iceta now talked about that the best way to govern a country... What is obvious is that the best way to govern a country is not that of the tripartite of 155, which, among other things, dissolved a parliament, ceased a government, and, among other things, gave support to a very heavy, very serious, unprecedented state operation, a repression operation with all the powers conjured up, a_GAL finance, a fund-up, a « for them to finance, against Catalan enterprises, against Catalan entrepreneurs, against customers of these enterprises, against workers of these enterprises and against shareholders of these enterprises. A shameful, undemocratic, dubious operation, when we even hear it illegal. We think we'll know everything. As Xavier Bosch was already on his way to his book, he'll know everything. It will be known who the perpetuators of this LAG are to finance, from this "to be financed by them, from this repressive action by the State". Let us hope that the commission of the 155th of here in the Parliament of Catalonia, which is urgently already constituted, will investigate each of the facts that have taken place against the interests of Catalan companies and of the workers and workers of these companies. We saw how the People's Party – we saw how the People's Party – removed funds from the Catalan benches to coerce them and coerce their actions in the bag. We have seen this pressure on the part of the People's Party, of Adif, of Renfe, of the ports of the State, of the different ministries, in a shameful way. We have seen how the monarchy, an entire king, called on businesses and entrepreneurs to change their society in Catalonia; and we want to express from our parliamentary group the surprise that yesterday the Commons did not vote against rejecting the monarchy. And we have seen how the Socialist Party does not change or repeal the decree to facilitate the flight of businesses. You're obviously...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.109.0	Mr. Batet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.110.0	... Mr. President, we want your understanding of these facts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.111.0	...time is running out. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.112.0	Yes; thank you very much. Mr. Batet, make a diagnosis that I fully share. It's that every week we go along with the gravity of the general cause against independence. That's the deepest fact and, if I may, even more painful, isn't it? To see that they've managed to build evidence to blame the independenceists. The whole point of getting out of business is that it's an operation designed just to end up suing the independenceists. First you make the decree to run away from the business, then you withdraw the deposits and then you have Judgement 13 who takes advantage of all this to say: "Look, as you caused all this, I charge you. That's it, that's huge, that's monstrous, that general cause against independence, that's absolutely it. And against that we have to react. The best way to react to this is with the unit, with the unit of independence. And, therefore, tell them – say them – to everyone, say them loudly, loudly, that they give up all hope that they will divide us; that they will not divide us, that we will go, and that we will go to the end, and that we will go to defend democracy, and that we will go to defend them and the people who are in exile. This is our best answer, it's the only possible. And tell the people of Catalonia that it must be able to balance between this idea that we will win – that we will win –, that there will be hope, but that this hope can only be used where we won, and we only won when we were able to face each other together against the State. It was the first of October. Therefore, I demand that all efforts..., that we organize, that we coordinate, that we place this focus on civil, social and national rights, on the right to self-determination, that we are strong here, that we resist it here, that everyone understands it, that Europe has already understood what this farce has been about, they have already understood it and, therefore, they are at our side. Civil rights, social rights, national rights. A firm defense, to the extreme during these months, to the court, effectively. Because there is a point of inflection in this country, a point of inflection that forces us all – everyone – to look at our eyes and say: "Is it possible that we allow it? , which is the moment of the sensations. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.113.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about his words and support the actions of the defense committee of the Republic]] [[317-00013/12]] The next question is about the political situation, and the formulation by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.114.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. First of all, I also wanted words of encouragement and solidarity with the citizens of Mallorca. We have seen a video, Mr Torra, which is disturbing to us because of the words or terms you addressed to members of a CoR. Can you explain to all Catalans what you mean when you ask the CoRs to start the revolt after the sentence against the imprisoned politicians, and then what will be the time of the revolt?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.115.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.116.0	Miri, so I don't know what video you're referring to – first. Secondly, I am actually speaking to the people of the CDRs, because there are members of my family who are members of the CDRs; therefore, it is not a concern, I mean I have a very direct interview with all the people of the CDRs, but it may be clear to me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.117.0	To answer the question, Mr. Carrizosa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.118.0	Yes, a video that comes out published on the internet, specifically in the Global Chronicle, but that's not the important thing, in what medium it comes out; the important thing is whether you recognize or not to have said those words. Look, it's just that you've recognized here: "It's that my family is from the CDRs. There is also information that they say that you met with them in August to accompany the work of the Generalitat, and also to schedule a period of greater intensity of threats on the streets by the separatist commands, and you have also never denied that you have said the words « pressurize, pressurize. You also met in the Citadel Park, just before the attempted assault on Parliament, with the CDRs. You, Mr Torra, are not in the end a mere substitute for a supposed president of the Generalitat who is escaped, and not exiled; you are not a president of the Generalitat for real, because you do not deal with the problems of Catalans. Actually, he doesn't like that. You like to be the head of those CDRs. Here before he said: « To me it is..., I feel very close to the road. You feel very well to those who alter the order in the streets and to those who threaten others in the streets. And, moreover, after what happened in this Parliament yesterday, I think we all have it very clear: Puigdemont and his faithful prefer to lose the majority in Parliament than to have a normal parliamentary term. The Puigdemont toy, if it's broken, then it no longer serves you, and you're going to be tightening up. Here, if you lose the votes, it will give you the same thing, because « after all, if we bother you very much, we will be shut down again by Parliament. After yesterday's sinking of the separatist bloc, they have already fallen into the face of radical nationalist and have put on the hood of the CDRs. Let's hope you rectify, but we don't believe it very much...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.119.0	Mr. Carrizosa, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.120.0	So, you and the whole... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.121.0	Time's up, Mr. Carrizosa. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.122.0	It would also be good if one day – one day, huh? I don't tell him..., that, I don't know, three months from now – one of his interventions wasn't to threaten. I'd be fine. [[Greetings.]] Because, listen, I've been here ever since he threatened me with the prison, 155, etc. It's that it's continuous – it's that it's continuous. It's just that they don't realize that this can't be, I mean, that it's not the way to go? And, two, perhaps you should agree with the CDRs; I suggest that they come together and that they be clarified. Because, of course, the CDRs asked me to resign, and you're telling me now that I'm the head of the CDR command. There's something here that doesn't connect either, huh? If you expect me to criminalize an organization like CDRs, I won't do it – I won't do it. They have all the right to continue working for their political project, they have all the right. And you're making a big irresponsibility talking to the terms that you're talking to, commands, etc. You're making... you're provoking the basis for that crime. You don't hold me responsible. It's you, the one who has all the responsibility for what can happen in the future. It's you. [[Greetings.]] And you'll let me, since you were calling President Puigdemont, huh? ...President Puigdemont is this place. [[the president of the Generalitat does not assign the shield]] - No, no, no, Not here, President Puigdemont, obviously, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, you're going to seek justice. He went to seek justice and they gave it to him; they gave it to Germany. Mr Puigdemont is moving to Europe freely, except for Spain. Freely, except here. And you don't worry about that? [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't ask them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.123.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.124.0	...think that President Puigdemont can go all over Europe except Spain? Does it look normal? That seems normal. Perfect. But, well, in any case, I'm the one who would want to read it is the one who... because they know how we can communicate, how do they communicate? With you, huh? , with his comrades in the chamber– do you seem to me to be a member since the year... 2012? Look, you've been with them, Mr. Iceta too, Mr. Swordler too, and you've been a member of some government, Mr. Albiol too. And you agree to pass through here before, before the deep loops, as if...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.125.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.126.0	So he was going to read the president's letter... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.127.0	Once you finish the questions to the President of the Generality, let's go to the next item on the agenda. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] The second point is the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Article 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees must be communicated to the plenary. In view of the new composition of the months of the Committee on the Status of Deputies, the Committee on Economic and Historical Affairs and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Families, which are included in the plenary's file and which has been distributed in due course to all Members and Members..., I urge you to complete the reading. And we give it that way to complete what sets the Rules. And, therefore, let's move to the next point of the order of the day. [[General debate on the priority of the social agenda and the recovery of coexistence]] [[255-00001/12]] The third point is the general debate on the priority of the social agenda and the recovery of coexistence. In accordance with Rule 156 of the Rules of Procedure, this general debate will be governed by Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokespersons. As the debate is taking place at the initiative of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we will start with the intervention of a representative of this parliamentary group, so as to present the reasons for the request for a maximum of thirty minutes. In the first place, therefore, therefore, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.128.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope this plenary session would not have been necessary in Catalonia. We, already in July, believe that it was necessary to ask for it to be held, and we believe that the reason why this plenary should be held is obvious. It is evident because there is a real social fracture in Catalonia. It is indomitable, it is undeniable, even though you deny it, but it is undeniable that it exists. And what this plenary would like to do is to talk in this Chamber about politicians, those who somehow lead the positions that are present today in our society, let us try to reach some kind of agreement or, let us say, a joint pact to prevent the political positions found from being reflected in society in the form of a rift and a break. The first thing that needs to be done to get to grips with a problem, let us say, is to acknowledge that this problem exists, and that is where we are already with the first problem, because here there is a part of the Chamber that does not always recognize that there is a fracture, or sometimes explicitly denies it. The truth is that you sometimes recognize that there is a fracture when you want to impute the fracture to Citizens, for example. So they do say there's a social fracture. But you, so out of the way and, let's say, as a concept, deny it. Then, when something happens, then there was a fracture, but it turns out that it was Citizens' fault. So, I think the first thing that needs to be done is to recognize that the problem exists, because it is difficult for you to recognize it and, if not, we can hardly pretend to solve it. The fracture exists and you have to know it. The process... and I say you have to know why you are in society, like all of us. The process has broken or complicated relationships in families. Many people, then, have... Suddenly a new member enters the family – the son-in-law, the sister-in-law, whatever – and it turns out that: "Ostras, we cannot talk about politics at the table. This happens in thousands and thousands of Catalan families, as well as friendships that, for example, in chat groups, have had to come to ask for and prohibit the talk of politics, because as not everyone thinks the same, that was derived from inconvenient discussions. The same is true of work, which is not easy to talk about policy either, why? , because the thing has been taken to an extreme that is difficult, in all the environments in which people develop life, to be able to talk about politics without breaking families, breaking friendships or breaking relationships between fellow workers. Who can deny that this is happening in Catalonia? For those who see only half Catalonia, those who feel that their whole environment thinks the same and that, if so, because they live in some people, somewhere where there is no one who dares to raise the voice to say that they do not think the same as all the gentlemen who externalize, let's say, their thinking in all areas of life, invading and overwhelming, many times, with their political symbolism the spaces that are of all..., therefore, to those who are of the band that invades or that invades, it seems to them that, well, that nothing happens, that here there is no conflict. Why? Why is there going to be conflict, if in my people no one jokes me, no one tells me anything, it seems that everyone agrees, right? So, I wanted to draw your attention, for example, that public workers, even if they don't think like Mr. Torra, or perhaps in educational communities, that not everyone in schools thinks like Mr. Bargalló..., we have seen today an incredible proof of what is going on. I mean, my group teaches Mr. Bargalló a picture of students from a school taking away the yellow ties they put on to commemorate October 1st and Mr. Bargalló doesn't see it, he just doesn't see it. No, no. "Oh, well, if nothing happens, this, in schools, nothing happens. Let's see, Mr. Bargalló, you've been taught a school where there are yellow ties. Do you understand? There were some young students who were taking them off. Do you understand? Do you understand that in all those schools that have bonded... do you understand that not all parents and not all students commune with the symbol that yellow bond means? Do you or do you not understand? Don't you understand? [[Greetings.]] Do you believe that in schools you can impose symbols that can bother much of the educational community? Do you understand that Republican Left has tens of thousands of votes less than Ciutadans? Do you understand? Do you not think it possible for some of those voting parents or children to be in those schools? That you don't care, when they show you the picture, and you don't see them... don't you understand this? [[Greetings.]] It is necessary to be very sectarian, Mr Bargalló, it is necessary to be very sectarian to impose on others the things that one thinks and to continue insisting that nothing happens. It's very serious. This affects coexistence, because many parents and children of these schools, when they see that the Government of the Generalitat looks away and nothing happens, and denies it, and says: "This is done through inspection, if it happens. Well, look, do you want to ask us the name of the school again and you send it to the inspection? Do you not act ex officio when there are rights of others who are being violated? The same goes for Mr. Buch, when... listen, public workers don't have to work in environments that are full of partisan symbols, of you, and not everyone believes them and not everyone shares them. Why do they impose on public workers a working environment that is purely political interference? Why do they do that? Do you think that really fosters harmony and coexistence among all? Do you think this encourages him? Because you, I insist..., of course, well, we will get to what is based the whole process, which is a great lie from the beginning that was invented by Mr Agustí Colomines, that he said he recognized that the right to decide is a "breath that we invent ourselves. Because it does not really have legal support, the right of self-determination does not have international legal support. Yes, for the colonies, for the countries invaded and subjugated, but not for Catalonia, with the Diagonal full of companies of the most leading and listed, or perhaps there are no longer so many companies in the Diagonal, because yes, because many have gone through the process. Well, this is what I meant about public spaces and what I was saying to Mr Bargalló or what I was referring to Mr Buch – who is not here now – because he is also moving not only to public employees, but to the people, to the people who go down the street, to those who go to a beach and find it flooded with yellow crosses. Well, it's rare that, say, the city hall or those responsible for keeping public spaces free of party symbolism do nothing, right? There are people who live in small municipalities, in which the flag of all, the Spanish, is lifted, and a stellate hangs, and the village is filled with ties. And in what environments, when buses are made for the Diada, you see who gets on the bus to go to the Diada or not. There is some pressure that makes coexistence unbearable for many people. The holidays of the villages. At the feasts of the peoples, more and more, the proclamations, the symbolism, the jokes, the chanzas, the such..., are always on account of them, to always insult the same, to half the population – to half the population. That at best in that municipality are not precisely, let's say, the majority, in that municipality; in others yes, but at best in that no. And does that give the right to always be pointed out to those who think differently? This is what is happening in Catalonia. This is social division, this is social fracture; that's why we had to come here. Let's talk about this. Are you prepared to prevent those who are always the object of the insults, of the chants, of the marking being always those who do not think like the Government? What a revolution you are making, by the way, which is protected from power, from the establishment of Catalonia, from those you have always commanded, to prevent the constitutionalists, those who feel Spanish, Catalan, European, to prevent these people from coming out who do not agree with you. To point out to the dissident is also a total lack of political empathy and absolutely fractures coexistence. What else have we had? We've had, for example, Vic's megaphony – Vic's megaphony. Do not tell me that this is something that is tolerable in a democratic society. That a city council put at the service of an ideology some messages, some orwellian litany, which you seem to be seeing, I don't know, Orwellian, that is, it seems 1984, of Orwell: "We are in a situation of exceptionality. [[Greetings.]] That's scary. Look, it's so scary for some people that it took several weeks to report that this was happening at Vic City Hall. « No, I don't want problems. Like the families, Mr Bargalló, who are in schools and do not complain about those who take politics to the classrooms to prevent their son from being pointed out, as if « oy, watch out this one, that they are not going to... [[Greetings.]] That's social fracture – that's social fracture. It is a social fracture that you are in the Girona Government Delegation and another megaphony of them: "We call you to concentrate on the dotze... But what is this? And the workers who don't go down the street at 12 o'clock, what? How are you feeling? Here in Parliament: "We are going to make a concentration of the workers at the door. Do you think people feel comfortable going against their bosses? Do you believe this? Do you think there are no people going to the concentrations...? : "Look, I better not have any problems, that goes this one and the other one will be and I don't want to be this alone. And so, in this way, societies are able to control anti-democraticly societies. Yeah. [[Greetings.]] And I know that among you there are people that these things..., I'm sure these things cause you to blush. I'm sure. But in the end, in these movements, they end up pointing..., probably the most radical ones end up taking the cat to the water and doing things that everyone else, although they see them questionable, do not dare to question the, and less in public, not to point out themselves to the party or chairmates. Because I'm sure these embarrassing things that happen in Catalonia, to many of you, I'm sure they don't make you feel comfortable. Others do, Mr. Bargalló, because you don't change anything, you're very quiet, we've seen it, but there are people I'm sure this embarrasses them, embarrasses them, you know? All this I've described... we're always around with the statement of unthankful people. You, of Republican Left, have people who, when spoken to you are the sea of reasonable and good..., and we can talk, we can come to some agreements, but the truth is that there is no way your mayors will moderate minimally to not declare people not grateful in their municipalities for reasons of their ideas. You are not able to say to your militants or to your mayors, to your public offices: "Do not do this. Do it now at once, forbid, let's vote here. Let's make no one declare a person not grateful to another person, let's not exclude her from the community, that's what it does to point someone out for their ideas as a person not grateful. Or the mayor of Esquerra, of Canet, when Inés Arrimadas was found on the streets, well... [[the timer riu]] that: "What are you doing here? You're provocative. What do you mean, I'm trying to get into the streets for a walk? Those who planted the beach with yellow crosses were Catalan superpatriots, but I get there, who don't put yellow crosses or ties, and I'm provoking to walk. Is this normal? Well, give it a little touch and start changing the political culture. Let's start here, let's start by voting for things that contradict these aberrant anti-democratic practices that are being implemented in Catalonia. And another thing: when we complain, don't blame us for complaining. What are you waiting for? Mr. Torra, I do understand that, as you consider beasts and beasts and all these things to all the poor little Spaniards who crawl around, I understand that it seems very normal to you that everyone should be meek and submissive to the master and not dare to question all this. But do you know what's going on? That Catalan society is very tired now, and then it's very easy for people to get on the street and take off the yellow ties, you know? Among other things, because you consider those yellow bonds, or say so, that represent political prisoners and so on. For us they represent a lie more than that of the process, because these gentlemen are not political prisoners, they are not imprisoned for their ideas, but they are imprisoned for their actions, for their actions. And this, as bad as it may be, many of you also know it perfectly well. And yet, they continue to lie that they are political prisoners. It's just... A lie, by the way, that nobody buys them – nobody buys them – abroad. No, no, nobody buys them. Look, you like foreign court rulings so much, in Germany, Mr Torra, in Germany have clearly said that you are not afraid at all, that it is unthinkable to think that Mr Puigdemont could be persecuted in Spain for his political ideas or that the tool of criminal law could be used to punish excessively the conduct he may have incurred. And that was said by the Germans, who also said that he had committed misappropriation. You call it absolved in Germany of rebellion, but you always keep quiet when the Germans said that extradition for embezzlement did grant it. Anyway... One thing, about this fracture. Do you know that there are many people who are planning to leave Catalonia, who have already come to think about leaving here because they are tired of this environment? Do you know that, for example, in the best positions of the MIR, of medical tests, those who approve with the best grades, we have fewer people than ever who want to come to Catalonia? Do you know this, that we are losing human capital, of the best? Do you know, and surely you do, that civil servants do not want to come after their opposition to Catalonia? This will seem phenomenal to some of you, because that's how you do a cleanup that's good..., isn't it? So there are no people who will come from outside who want to adapt, live, make their life in Catalonia, integrate if as always people from all over Catalonia have integrated here, have worked, have made it theirs, have had their family here. This isn't good anymore, is it? And it doesn't matter that you don't want to come here people by opposition, it doesn't matter that you want to go all the judges, or the prosecutors, the police, the state officials or the tax inspectors, the labour inspectors. It doesn't matter, does it? Why would it be? Don't you ask? Well, maybe it's because living together in Catalonia is difficult since you started this acceleration nowhere. It also affects the coexistence that companies end up leaving. It's a strange way to reduce the tax deficit, isn't it? In other words, getting companies' headquarters to be taxed outside Catalonia, that reduces the tax deficit a lot. A fiscal deficit, by the way, which is amazing with the lies of the process. Still yesterday someone was saying around here the figure of the famous 16,000_millions, when the Economics Advisor himself said it was 3,200_millions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, yes... - Yes, yes, yes. That was it. Yesterday I was saying to Mr Torra: "When you tell the CDRs to tighten up, and I asked you about the CDRs and it seemed to you that it is something superb... well, normally, you won't get them to criminalise the CDRs." Well, I know, if you tell them to squeeze. The squeeze is to squeeze people, it's to squeeze families. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Torra, it is to squeeze people who want to get to their job or their medical test in time or to take your father to a place or... That is to squeeze people and make life unbearable in Catalonia. That affects cohabitation too. It affects living together to see that twenty people cut off a road and you can't move forward and the Mossos take a big look, and they're not authorized actions or programmed actions, but they're surprising actions designed to coerce, to make life more difficult. That can't be done. You can't do it from a government – you can't do it. That affects cohabitation. That is why we are asking here in plenary to condemn these actions. But you, who are the head of these CoRs, who do not like to be President of the Generalitat, who despise and despise what parliamentary activity is and what we can do here – they despise it – because you will certainly never vote in favour of the CoRs being condemned for their acts, their excesses, their violence, their attempts to assault Parliament, their signals to the seats of political parties. You also make a blind eye, you never comment on anything when you point to private houses, when you point to hoteliers, public workers... You have come to insult, from your surroundings, artists like Serrat, Isabel Coixet or Vargas Llosa. They're all fairies. All of us who do not agree with what you are doing, with the fracture to which you are subjecting Catalonia, are fairies. There have been attacks against the media, against Chronicle Global and against Catalunya Ràdio. We must condemn everyone. We condemn all kinds of violence, energetically, because there is no right to do so. We would like you here in Parliament to condemn him too. Look, we, in Citizens, have, I will tell you, two convictions already in Manresa by people who approached the Citizens' tent and, with insults – insults, you will already imagine, of these xenophobes and such: "I, you, what fire here? Spanishists, fatxes, I don't know what – they attacked, they also assaulted at the tip of the knife and we have two convictions already in Manresa. We have two judicial proceedings under way: one, which hit our spokesman for having also a tent on the street in Hospitalet, and the other, a lady who broke her face here, next to the Citadel Park, here next door, in Parliament, for removing some yellow ties, and there was a gentleman who shook on her in front of her children and punched her and diverted her nasal partition, but for the public media, that was a fake. And for the whole independence world it was a fake, it was a fake news that we had taken out, the Citizens' news. Hey, these are techniques, really, ugly, huh? They're ugly, those techniques. Do you know why that gentleman hit you...? There was discussion – there was discussion – whether he had hit him by removing the loop or because he had seen a loop on the ground. Then, as there was the scroll that he had seen the snare on the ground, they said he had beaten him for civicism. Of course, by civicism! [[Greetings.]] He was throwing the yellow tie on the floor, what an incivic! Look, this..., is that I cannot forget, because..., because it has its certain grace – it has its certain grace. What Mr. Torra wrote reminds me a little of what he was telling you now. In that article which has already been glossed several times on "who would have liked to say to him one, of these Spaniards who live among us, which has meant something to history and to the progress of humanity, this famous phrase that our president of the Generalitat said, for follows a paragraph that says: "These things that we have to bear with the PP or Citizens, which he already seizes, eh? , "these things, not these humans, because we are already known to be inhumane, because, as we are not moved by these ties, we are not moved to the last fiber, because we think that they are people who, unfortunately, have not gone on the right path and have found themselves in prison, as many other people are in prison, as the Constellera Capella also knows, without so many opportunities, well, then begins by cosifying. "These things that we have to endure like PP or Citizens and other protofeixist reductions are nothing but total emptiness, the absolute lack of minimal civilization. And, of course, since we don't even have the slightest civility, some of us take off ties, because one comes and beats you for incivico and hits you on a trip. That's ugly, isn't it? , Mr Torra, to me... I don't know, I recognize you that you have quail, because you hold your gaze, but it is very ugly: "The absolute lack of minimal civility and respect for the country where you are seen, not in the country where you live, no, in which you live – in which you live – unhappy. The one you live in. [[Let's give the rialles a round of applause.]] They're stateless. It's not your country. They live here. Right, Mr. Torra? We live here. What a shame to talk in the castle, huh? What a horror! « Brainless beasts that present resources, and there I saw myself. [[The timer laughs at the rialles.]] There I saw myself..., of « uncerebrated beast presenting resources. «And they cry and threaten, equipped for a legality that is the fruit of the Francoism and the labyrinth of which we do not know how to get out. In that I do give him the reason, that they are in the maze of which they do not know how to get out – in that I do give him the reason. Well, then, in order not to extend – in order not to extend – « every second Spanish steals 450_euros. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That you were younger. [[The timer laughs at the rialles.]] The PP..., the European PP, the European People's Party on the racist messages of Torra : « There is no rhetoric of hatred in the EU. Yesterday the TSJ said that Torra's writings were..., could constitute a hate crime, but that it is prescribed, as happened to the gynecologist who stole children, they have also declared it prescribed. The European Socialists censor the racist comments of Torra, show their doubts about their ability to hold office. Of course, you have put a president of the Generalitat who is not most suitable for no conflict and social fracture. And to an education counselor who, deu-n'hi-do, Mr. Bargalló, with all the affection I tell him. Finally, look, as there is very little left, I will comment: when a government turns all its efforts into what divides its population, it is deepening in the social fracture. When a government starts talking about what it does, what we can agree on, then it's cleaning up and pacifying the social fracture. And that is what we ask and have come to do in this plenary. This is it. That is, Mr Maragall – that is, Mr Maragall –, do not be angry – do not be angry – which is bad for health. Look, turning your back on all Catalans causes the social fracture to continue. Look..., look: zero_euros for day care; the worst waiting lists in dependence; the elderly..., the autonomous community with the most barracks; the autonomous community, Mr Bargalló, where the money that parents have most influences the academic results of their children; the highest IRPF for the middle classes of the population; the autonomous community that has failed to comply with a single public housing in Catalonia during 2017; life expectancy varies up to ten years depends on which neighborhood of Barcelona live; there are infrastructures that have proved ruinous: line 9, ATLL. Mrs Arrimadas mentioned several of these things to you in her speech on the general policy debate, but you did not answer any of them. Look, to clean up, to clean up this social fracture that we have, first of all to respect all Catalans, which, with the examples I've given you, seems like you guys are doing nothing at all. The second is to tell the truth; that is to say the truth of how we are, what is going on, what possibilities you have of, without breaking democracy and democratic rules, getting to where you want to go. It is lawful to be independent, but you, like us, have an obligation to respect the laws. Condemn violence. We have a number of motions for resolutions in that regard. Respect symbolism and institutions. And finally, and it was the leitmotiv of this plenary, to agree on the priority and prioritization of social agendas. That way we are talking about the problems of Catalans that affect us all, independenceists and non-independenceists. That is where we can find ways to speak, and you need ways to speak because you are now ill of parliamentary majorities. Everything that happens in Catalonia, if it persists in not remedying the social fracture, will be your responsibility, as well as those who do not stop you in your encouragement of the violence of the CDRs. Don't miss this opportunity – don't miss this opportunity – let's agree on what matters to us all [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] and stop deepening in this fracture that has done so much damage to Catalonia in recent years. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.129.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. We continue with the intervention of the President of the Generality, who can intervene without time limit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.130.0	Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs... now I was coming over here and I was thinking, "come back to look, come back to look at the title of this exhibition." It is: "Social agenda and recovery of coexistence. And what I think is that... [[the timer riu]] Just after what you just said here, I say, something has failed; or the title has failed or its explanation has failed, but something has failed, hasn't it? The truth is, when you asked for this plethora, I thought that yes, look, the time for change has arrived – of its, of course, eh? , of your change. I thought that perhaps, perhaps, they had decided to renew their obsession with the monotheme and that they were now willing to make proposals and a constructive parliamentary activity. I thought: "Look, they will prioritise the social agenda, pam, pam, pam, all this, the recovery of coexistence, we will make these proposals, the others... I do not know, for example, a proposal on poor energy, on housing, on better financing system, recovery of skills, a petition for the withdrawal of the suspensions of the Constitutional Court from social laws, right? I thought yes, that certainly, since you proposed it, you were concerned about the coexistence and well-being of the citizens. Well, wrong, huh? It's clear I've been wrong, it's clear. You, once more, like every day, like every week, have come with your strategy of total wear and tear. In fact, I don't know why I thought the opposite is that, logically, they know you, that today you would do exactly that speech, right? When a group or party has been created with the sole purpose of searching and searching for the fracture is very difficult – it is very difficult – to get out of here and never make a proposal in the right place and that is not systematically dedicated to trying to mislead the consensus and, precisely, coexistence. Actually, I remember, Mrs. Arrimadas didn't even want to meet me at the Palau de la Generalitat, did she? Do they remember that time that, somehow, we all tried to, so, start talking? Mr Albiol came to the Palau de la Generalitat; all except you. And, of course, now it's a little strange, not to mention suspicious, to exclaim about the social fracture and the wear and tear of coexistence. In fact, if you really care about this subject, you have occasions, day yes, day too, doing something very simple – very simple –: correcting your example and your attitude in this room. O speaking, I keep the doors of Palau open; when we speak. And I insist, not just talk about it, huh? We can talk about all the issues that are the deep political debate of Catalan society today: political prisoners, exiles, how we agree to exercise Catalonia's right of self-determination, effectively, eh? Because these are the fears. Or, if you want, we're talking about the chronic deficits that the Catalan institutions suffer, and, consequently, society. Because, finally, having a better or worse funding system is not a topic that affects Catalan institutions, it affects citizens, people. And that prevents us, for example, from making a good public investment plan in social services and infrastructure, and brings us to what you all know. All right. In the petition they registered to make this monographic debate, you recognize this deficiency in a very clear way, and perhaps – perhaps – without knowing or knowing, speaking of the possible absence of presumption for the delay in the formation of a government, this legislature, oblivioning itself, is clear, of 155, of which you, therefore, are one of the accomplices. Deyen: "This circumstance makes the problems of Catalans worse so that they cannot have all the resources generated to undertake and strengthen the policies and measures needed at these times. Look, this has been good, and I thank them, I thank them for this recognition that you have submitted by writing. And that's the way it is, we can't have the resources generated to do the social and modernization policies of the country we want. And it's a big deal that we don't all go to this room, all this room, really focus on this situation, and improve this absolutely unsustainable situation for any country. Miri, when I went to company meetings I explained to them – I had worked with the private company for a few years – always the same. Dic: « Escoti, miri, you imagine your company leaving each year with a minus 8_per_cent– minus 8_per_cent. Menys 8_per_cent to be able to make training policies for their employees, less 8_per_cent to modernize their installations, less 8_per_cent to be able to retain the talent of their people, less 8_per_cent to secure the pensions of their workers. Would this company be sustainable? Look, that's what's going on in Catalonia. But you've never seen them in the demand for just finance. Never, on the contrary, always the lesspreen. They always say, "No, no, it's 16,000 million, it's three thousand. I don't know, they're putting in some figures that no one's ever seen. But you've never been on the side of a just financing claim. And that does affect the people, to the benefit of the people. All these fears, which you usually hold back, with just funding, can no longer be held back. But, well, you don't have to say that they're neither here, nor in the Fiscal Pact, or in an economic concert for Catalonia. In any case, they know that this is no longer our solution. But if we're talking about Catalonia's funding limitations, then that's the result – that's the result – and that's the answer. And I propose to the Spanish government a solution. What is Ciutadans' proposal to fix the fiscal deficit, for example, in this country? What's that? We never got it. You accuse the democratic and peaceful process of being the cause of all the evils of this country that, on the other hand, goes away – and we have seen it in the figures, and today also Vice President Aragones did not expose a few – economically well, with the best results of years ago. Years ago and on and on, and progressing properly – to say the least in terms that Councillor Bargalló will like it. And, of course, if the economy goes well and the country moves forward, how do we continue to maintain this confrontational strategy that you want to maintain? So, carrying it to the independence process the two plagues of Egypt, right? What are we gonna do? What are we gonna do? We're used to it. We come here, every session, and you are a new session of Egyptian plagues that are going on and that we, therefore, will endure with the biblical patience that we know we are already capable of having generated in ourselves. But don't be fooled. It's that you're off on a trick. They say, this is not an immature, outcast, incapable country that does not allow a public debate about its future. What's been going on in this country for the last few years, man, aren't they coming with this? Precisely, this is a country that is in the best condition to have this political debate of foundations. Are we debating independence, whether it suits us or not? Let go of the laws. Should we be independent, or should we not be independent? Would we have better education, or wouldn't we? Would we have better sanitation, or wouldn't we? Would we have the infrastructure we need, or would we not? Do it, this debate? Do they accept it? Social cohesion, coexistence, well-being, equality, justice, all this does not depend on the democratic and peaceful debate about self-determination, independence, federalism, or how I suppose you want, self-determination. Or they want Vox's, now I don't know exactly which one of them. This debate, and even the whole political struggle, does not put all this at risk. There's no place where the right to self-determination has been exercised. Of course, say it, no, it's that this happens and it's going to happen in Catalonia. Alarm, they can pass us over. But he didn't go to Quebec, he didn't go to Scotland. And, look, I put two countries where the unionists won. So, listen to me, if when we make a reference they win the unionists, why not the fem? Why are you doing them for? I insist, the social fracture will never come for a political debate. The fracture – the fracture – in a country is the daughter of silence, the absence of debate and the violation of the most basic rights of democracy. That is, it breaks, when they do not let you speak; when they send you to prison; when they send you to exile. That's a fracture. Cohesion and coexistence do not depend on the will of the majority to exercise a recognized universal right, even for the Spanish Constitution through the international treaties signed. No, no, The cohesion, the coexistence and the well-being of the citizens depend on their living conditions, which all have the same opportunities, the attention and the care that the institutions have towards the most disadvantaged and disadvantaged. And if anything has self-proposed this government, since the first day, putting people in the center of the debate, it is that all people have the possibilities to be able to pull their project of life out of the country. Because we want a sustainable country. And if you want to throw your life plan ahead of the Pyrenees, the Lands of the Ebre, Central Catalonia or Barcelona, or Badalona, you have every opportunity to do so. And that it did not depend on social, economic, or physical conditions. All people. People with some kind of disability, too. Tothom must be able to have the autonomy to bring forward his life plan. Until now, which has put at risk the cohesion and coexistence of Catalans in an absolutely irresponsible way has been a Spanish government, to which you have given support in your Croatian against civil rights and freedoms in attacks against self-government and in the irresponsible race to get first to the goal of tougher Spanishism; goal in which – I must say – there is a competition always competitive. Because, listen to me, you never know if the ones who want to get first in this goal of Spanishism the toughest are you, it's PP, it's PSOE, it's Vox. I don't know, there's like a race in which to see who's up first. And who has put this cohesion and coexistence at risk, and we've read it these days, on some news that we've been through, it's been a state and a monarchy. A monarchy! Are you imagining the Queen of England calling at the local or Scottish businesses why she's leaving the country? It's just, of course, about what kind of monarchy we're talking about, for God's sake! A monarchy that has blackmailed businesses and banks because it marsessin de Catalunya, aiming to provoke a social and economic crisis, which, due to its disgrace, did not produce, but which later attributed to the independenceists in order to put them in prison. You're a pervert. It's just that what's going on here is an absolute perverseness. Because you have this: to end people who defend an idea. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, you have this thread. And all this is a..., what we give the general cause against independence of which, these deep loops, are the visible effect of the tip of the iceberg, but under there are thousands of Catalans investigated, processed. Honestly, what has been read these days, the involvement of Zarzuela and Moncloa in this operation, will already forgive me, but it has reached a degree of indecency and mafia behavior – mafia behavior. And that attitude, you, supporting that attitude, will always lengthen them from being able to govern the institutions of this country. Do you really want to rule some day with the will to improve the lives of the citizens? So he began to make proposals, to dialogue, to collaborate with the rest, to lower the virulence of his interventions, to stop screaming. They make a more European policy. You know perfectly well what we defend: that the solution of foundations, the most realistic and transformative to the welfare, coexistence and cohesion is said to be the Catalan Republic. At this moment of democratic involvement in the Spanish State, it is the only guarantee of welfare for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans. And it has a very simple name, it's called independence. That's it. I can hear you don't share it, can't I? And, look, listen, it seems perfect to me; democracy is so, you don't agree and it's already there. Now, it seems to me that I can ask you that, if you really want to bring solutions and improve something, you come to a debate, please, free of threats, blackmail, intimidation. He's trying to threaten us. You're the one who's supposed to threaten us with prisoners, with 155... For God's sake! They're already in jail, aren't they? It's just that they're already in exile. And you don't stop threatening us with all this, when we just want to have a democratic and peaceful debate. Go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, We discuss ideas in democracy. We have this debate about what is right in this country, about independence. Do it? And I don't have a ballot box – I don't have a ballot box. I don't care when the people express themselves freely through the ballot boxes, never – never. You don't do it for them. The solution to the problem of coexistence that you want to make believe, I'm sure it will never go through the chasm that your group brings to Catalan politics. I just exemplified it right now every week, talking to this little, with this lack of institutional and personal respect. I insist: find another tot. Do you think Councilman Bargalló deserves the amount of time you've been addressing him today? No, really, think if you can find another thing. Probably, look, they'll be better off if they find him, too. I give you another example: "Those who want to break are the ones who said they wanted to leave Europe and the Schengen area, because they did not agree with the judicial decision of a German court. This came to be said – it came to be said. And the attitude of the Spanish government of the PP, with you as a travel partner, these last few years, has indeed put the permanence of the European Union at risk. I'm sure you know, that Spain is a champion in incompliments of community law. That's a risk. And we don't want to run him. And every time it shows more that the best way to ensure Catalans stay in the European Union, in European values, is with an independent republic, and not with this Spanish state. Because the image of contempt that Spain has taken with its authoritarian attitude is extraordinary. Europe is amazed at how honourable politicians and democrats are being persecuted, how it is expected, starting with our Foreign Minister, who has already expressed..., and dedicated himself to it, huh? , he dedicates himself to fonds, the man – he dedicates himself to fonds. He said: "No, no, I will devote the cent_per_cent of my time to fighting the ideas of independence. We have a Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Spanish State who spends the cent_per_cent of his time doing this. And we pay him, huh? Unbelievable. Against the separation of powers, as he attempts against the separation of powers, as the Francoism reemerges and unpunished camp for the Valley of the Fallen. Europe does not understand or accept this authoritative drift from the Spanish State. In fact, they have no longer managed to preserve the image of the monarchy; neither of the king emeritus, nor of the present king, nor of the members of his family. If they want to avoid fractures, they start, please, to act differently, because they've spread everything. Do you remember that the Catalans had to sail through the universe forever with independence? So we can already run to make the republic effective before you pass us Schengen or the European Union. At the end and end, it's there, it's Europe..., and I know that the necks, I know that it also causes you an irresolvable complexity to see that our exiles can move 'freely for Europe, for all the countries of Europe, and in turn they cannot come here, because they would put them in prison. I know you don't understand that. Because I don't understand it to anyone – because I don't understand it to anyone. And, therefore, it is there in Europe where the fictional account of the Llarena court and, with it, of the separation of powers from the State has been unravelled. Because this isn't just a judicial issue, it's an orchestration of the state conjunction, it's all the state that has opened the locksmiths to end an idea. I'm back: what do you guys do in favor? Who's his contribution to overcoming this supposed fracture of what they're talking about? Of all your speech, Mr. Carrizosa, which is the part of your speech that I can take from me to say, "Look, let's build on this, when are there any toilets and less? What do you do to deal with the conflict in a dialogue way, to find a political solution to a political problem? So look, leave me, and also, despite the obvious intentions of your group, explain to them the priorities of the government I chair. Because I did believe the title we were discussing today. It is about moving towards a more free country, which guarantees equal opportunities for all citizens. We have the basic elements to make it possible; if not, the essential ingredients: a entrepreneurial and active citizenship, a rich and diverse territory, a powerful business and association structure and institutions that, despite the fierce interventions, travestes and offenses, work well. We've got all this. And you don't do it for the people of Catalonia, you don't do it for them; you see what life has come of the country, you'll see the civic networks, the popular athenaeums... you don't do them by going out to meet Catalonia – you don't do them for them. What do we need? And I'll make it very clear, because that doesn't have any secrets either. We lack a favourable legislative framework and the availability of resources that the people of this country are able to generate. I insist on what I said to you before: welfare, cohesion, coexistence, is not guaranteed with one flag or another, is not guaranteed by nullifying the political debate or by charging the institutions with Article 155. They are guaranteed with the maximum possible occupation, with a quality education system, with the best possible health care, with a high index of access to culture and, yes, prioritising the premises of Culture, with housing for everyone, with entrepreneurial dynamism, with good transport solutions and mobility. They are guaranteed with resources, with full legislative capacity. It is so obvious and so elementary that this formula has no secrets. That's the only way to avoid the fracture. Muriel Casals said: "To have a welfare state you have to have a state, and that's it. If we don't have the full powers and we don't have the full resources, how do you want us to deal with where we need to focus, where people can stay, and what is our top priority? And so – and so – with the overstretched resources, so with what we have, this government has put it as a priority. If you really cared about the social agenda and coexistence, I insist, you would demand the withdrawal of the suspension of the Laws of urgent measures for housing emergence. They say: "No, it inhabits, it inhabits. So look, there's a law we're suspicious of. Do you agree that we should raise the suspense? And the poor energy – forgive me, I had... Of equality between men and women; of climate change; of the Catalan Agency of Social Protection, or the Law of Universalization of Health Care. If they were actually imported, they would not have come to the attention of those who challenged the legislative package approved for this Parliament with large majority. Or is it that these laws only benefit independent citizens? In the same way, if your concern was sincere, and not the theater you're used to, we'd be at the forefront of the lawsuit for the sake of the prosecutor's office. I'd love to see that room. The biggest torpedo that's launched against the flotation line of the welfare, the equal opportunities of all Catalans, but mainly those who have the most difficulties to reach the end of the month. And this is not a timely problem of the last years or the drift of the secessionist process, as you like to say; it is a chronic, systemic, structural, gravity problem. No country can get out with this fiscal deficit – no country. We'll always have people who'll stay behind. And if we really care about people, if we work for people– and I, at least, my practice of politics doesn't mean that I think of it any other way than working for people– so, because these people can have this habitat, this job, they can have all the opportunities, we need to have the legal framework and resources. Yes, social cohesion is measured by the degree of trust, the commitment to society and the degree of participation or involvement in the civil, cultural and social life of the country. And here I make a statement to the totality of your speech. We have a huge civil, cultural and social life in the country, a huge wealth. I, yes, different– and, yes, different. I insist: they go out to meet the country, pregnant vagina. Vagina to know the popular ateleus, the castellare glues. Vagina to meet the people who are worried about their barrels, about those who are struggling to pull forward for a whole year, perhaps, the major party of the district where they live, the people who are in cultural debates. It's fantastic, this country's social network. You don't do them for, you don't do them for dealing with all this. And that makes us populous, that makes us cohesive. And, of course, what are the elements that allow us to appreciate this idea of cohesion? Does it belong or is it winged? Did you include it or exclude it? Did the participation or the non-compromise? Reconnaissance or reboot? Legitimacy or illegitimacy? We link cultural, diversity, social networks and partnerships, interactions and social links, communities of interpretation and group entities, and inequality and poverty. Yeah, yeah, that's all that's part of whether we're a cohesive society or not. And it's all these elements that we need to discuss. Discuss them at the bottom. Here we play it, here we play it, here we play it. And in this sense, I would like to highlight the importance of social networks that will affect civil society: partnerships, cooperatives, mutual societies, athenaeums... For example, the entire network of senior classrooms or large classrooms, which gathers thousands of people from many Catalan cities, every week, to continue their training. And so are all the popular culture organizations. That's cohesion. All these are elements that allow us to assess the cohesion of a country or a society. Have they studied them well, these indicators? Do they know them before they make these trembling speeches? Are they involved? Have you noticed what social studies are saying in this camp? Do you know that precisely who stands the hardest in these studies about the trust of the citizens of Catalonia are the institutions of the Spanish State? Are they really interested in trying to solve the issues that have the most options to affect social cohesion and coexistence in Catalonia? Honestly, after listening to your speech today, the answer cannot be positive. On the other hand, they ask us to stone society with a hand attached to the scale and without resources or legislative capacity. And we answer them very clearly that we want to stop putting down pieces once and for all, that we want to solve the plot of these deficiencies, that we want it not to be produced. We want coexistence, cohesion and well-being to be the result of the capacity of our institutions and citizens. We don't want anyone to believe that living together is silence. We want to accompany a society that is active, critical, involved, radical, compromise. I know these words... even some of these words to you already alert them, they bother them; they want people to stay home, that no one wants to change anything. So we don't think about giving up. That's why our obsession with government is to do everything in our hands to give us the best you serve and facilitate the best possible cohesion and welfare. We are faced with solving the problems that exist in all spheres of social policy. And we have a lot of work to do, a lot of work to do: to gather refugees, minor under-guard, denunciations, structural poor, school dropout, hard work, attention to dependence, work for equality, for the LGTBI collection... It is certain that the maximum media attention of Catalan politics is due to a serious democratic problem and to the civil, social and political rights that we suffer; but do not deceive, and above all do not tend to confuse the citizens: this government devotes as much time as possible and more to improving the living conditions of the people. And how do we do that? Examples.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So from the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families is working towards putting people at the center of policies and institutions, moving from a model of services oriented to collections and sectors to a model oriented to people, reinforcing the basic and preventive services, in order to avoid having to act when the problem has already arisen. We are working to forge a support network and accompany the vital projects of everyone, citizens and families, to take advantage of the opportunities offered by our surroundings. And when there's a tip that we don't predict, as it's been with the underage unaccompanied – this massive arrival of more than three-thousand smaller than we've had this year – we go there and spend the hours we need and the resources we need to solve it as we've solved it. Promote personal autonomy and integration of people with disabilities. I insist: everyone in this country must have all the opportunities to bring forward their life plan, all without any difference, activating support mechanisms in childhood, adolescence and youth to create maximum inclusive dynamics and strengthening the Third Social Sector. The Third Social Sector, the most affected by Article 155, with drawings and drawings of suspended consignments, because no one made a decision. To close, some entities of the Third Social Sector. Civics, the Catalan model of volunteering, all this makes us cohesive. Also from the Department of Education, which proposed to build a country education project. We have an educated model for public service and compromise with the transformative power of people and society through education, which we want to improve, but we will defend to the extreme, the Catalan model of education. An educational model that could work more quietly, more professionally, which is what we want, if you don't have the constant threat of politics and persecution that you have to live these last few months. Do you think you're doing any favors by teaching this picture of this school? Or, for reasons such as language, of which you decided to create, without success, a conflict where there was no one? How many families ask for schooling only in castle in the country? [[Widow's remorse.]] How many families do they ask for? I look at the data, and therefore do not make a conflict, neither of the school nor of the language – do not make a conflict of the school and of the language –; it is one of the great social consensuss that there is in the country, not fracturing it – do not fracturing it. A linguistic immersion that is a model that has rejected the recognition of Europe, precisely because of its inclusive and cohesive value. This is another example. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, you're not lying, no. It's just that, of course, as you don't know what's going on more than in Spain... in Europe things happen and they say things, and they do studies, and one of the studies they do is that... listen, look, the model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia is an inclusive model and that's it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, you'll keep saying you're lying. [[the President of the]] But I would recommend that you try to read...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.131.0	Mrs. Sierra, your group will have fifteen minutes to say whatever you want to say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.132.0	...that you try to read something written beyond the Pyrenees. And this is another example that challenges the sincerity of his concern for the social agenda. Hey. It also has as its priority a social agenda that demands to reduce inequalities that, in the area of sanitation, are produced, unfortunately, by social and generative causes. An agenda that also demands maximum effort in primary care, prevention measures, social care and innovation. In this context, truly... let's ask them again what their commitment and their capture is. And it is that this Parliament made a law because no one was left at the door of a hospital or an ambulance without being able to attend. And here he didn't vote for something and a law like this? So, you guys. You abstained, and the PP voted against. And if you abstain from a law that the Parliament does because no one is at the door of a hospital or an ambulance without being attached, do you see yourself entitled to talk about the social agenda and living together? So, look, we'll keep working hard to help everyone, come from where to come, and whatever your situation is and your origins are. And we will, with the application of the National Primary Care and Community Health Strategy of Catalonia. Habitat. I have already answered, it seems, in the question that..., the first measure taken by this government, a first measure, was about habitating. But it is the simple continuation of what the previous government did, a government that I claim as one of the most progressive governments in this country, the government of President Puigdemont. And that's why they pushed two laws, which we're willing to recover, on this subject. I'm talking about the Housing Protection Act for people at risk of residential exclusion and the Emergency Measures Act to address housing and energy poverty. In the end, we did not hear them protesting people when they were suspected against the majority will of this Parliament. Will they be with us to claim and raise this suspense? They will vote these laws when we bring them back to this Parliament, why are they voted on? They will explain, therefore, that this is their commitment to the social agenda, or not? There is an emphasis on: housing protection measures for people at risk of residential exclusion, and urgent measures to address housing and energy poverty; are they in favour of these laws, or are they not? I have briefly explained to them the focus of some areas of government action. Two weeks ago, we presented the plan of government, with more than a thousand concrete measures of action. And in my intervention in the general policy debate last week, I also broke down the most important measures that we are preparing. The social agenda... – because this was..., this..., I understand, right? , which today's debate was part of the social agenda – this government's social agenda is cross-cutting. In fact, just with a transversal agenda it is possible to face any problem of inequality, lack of cohesion and coexistence. From culture, to industry, to business and security, social policy is a shared objective, which requires everyone's involvement. This is our compromise and our determination. It was the past year, when the government's budget social expenditure increased by €1,355 million and already the advances that the 2019 budget will include increases to further improve basic services for people. We expect, therefore, the support of all those who want to strengthen the services and services to the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans. Because this is a premise for seven million thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand. And that said, and since you referred to it, in your intervention, let me reiterate that our government is neither neutral nor will it be neutral before the violation of the most elementary rights and freedoms; it is not. Nor is it the vast majority of society; nor are they a good part of the voters of political forces who do not defend independence, are not in favour of repression, are not in favour of the monarchy. They want a self-determination reference. There are three great consensuses here in this country. Many of your voters are here, because you still have a limit, and because the chasm and aggression doesn't want it at all, in this country. I insist, public space is not and has not been neutral, and still less, before the violation of rights and freedoms. The public space has to be free, and they don't want to stop this freedom space now, which we've managed to win with many shared struggles. Independence has been, and will always be, a peaceful, completely peaceful, inclusive, and extraordinarily open and generous movement with everyone, which has demonstrated its civics and its goodness. And that, in the background – in the background – also the neck. These demonstrations of September 11th, this civic, this non-violence..., in fact, we talked and practiced the revolution of the smiles, we can't do it any other way, the Catalans. We will always reject violence and aggression. You said, and you said, and I'm against it: we always reject violence and aggression. We don't like people, but they're not part of us or our values. We would be wrong, we would make it fatal, the Catalans, if we pretended to push our political project forward with any kind of violence or aggression. It is not part of the values of Catalans; any spur of aggression has always been the immediate condemnation of all sovereignist parties and entities that support it. Precisely, the only rape we've seen – the only rape we've seen – is one year ago, the one from the first of October; that was a violent organized group. And someday they'll be judged. The people who ordered those police charges against the citizens who voted, one day they'll be judged. As they are to be judged, all these hoods that draw ties with white weapons of the night, of police sent to stun citizens with paper to the hand and arms of the llary, of groups of extreme right that have manifested themselves at the side of certain political parties of this chamber. I wrote, this summer, an alert article on the or the beech snake. We have to fight the or the beech snake, we cannot let this or the snake settle in our city. If they are really concerned about coexistence, they begin to condemn aggression in a forceful and direct way: first, of the first of October; and second, of these violent groups against peaceful citizens. We also want there to be no subtleties in the rape sentence. I insist on this: cohesion, coexistence, well-being are not inconvenient with the diversity of political and far-reaching opinions; what really breaks is that a self-determination reference with the State cannot be made and binding, and that, when the first of October is organized, polices are sent to stun citizens. I'm done. We need to position ourselves in this market, and we need to be very clear. There's not a few who's running and some who's in jail. There are some who falsify the facts and send to the exile of honourable citizens, and some exiles to whom the courts of European countries give reason. That's the mark. And it's important to hear about what's going on in the country. In front of a Europe that lived in the exclat of fascism, President Roosevelt, in his inaugural speech of 1933, said: "The only thing we have to deal with is the same thing. Let's face the political debate, no threats. We face each other without reason, we have nothing else. The only one we can come with in this debate is to come there without, it's to come there with the struggle of our thinking. It's laying on the table because we believe that the Catalan Republic is the best solution for our citizens. But we can't hold it, this debate in conditions of freedom, because there is always one threat or another; because we have people in prison for throwing a reference. Dare – dare – to have this debate. This debate unites us, this is the debate that unites us. And I ended up thanking them once more for the opportunity to re-explain the country project with Republican values that we have to realize. Despite the obstacles they pose to us, despite the virulence of their attacks, we move forward, because our engine is people, and not anger or bitterness. And that's why we do it the way we always do, the only way we know how to do it: "With the smile, the revolt. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.133.0	Next, we continue the debate with the interventions of representatives of parliamentary groups and sub-groups to determine their position. For a maximum of fifteen minutes the groups; seven and a half, of course, the parliamentary subgroups. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Lord Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.134.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President Torra: Are you in a much more haste to bring here Puigdemont or to reduce waiting lists? That is what this debate is about; that is what this debate is about. You asked him when he arrived here at the rostrum: "It is that with the title... The title is: "A pact for the prioritization of the social agenda and for coexistence. And that's what I've expressed to you here. First, I have told you a great deal of examples of how coexistence has been broken. You haven't answered virtually any of them, you haven't said what you think, because..., that of cutting the streets, that it is pointed out to people, that it is called people not grateful for their ideology, that it is pointed out to people for their ideology, that it is invaded the public spaces with a certain ideology. I'll just answer some of the main things you've described here. With regard to finance, he said to us: "You do not talk about financing. If we have spoken a thousand times about funding the Autonomous Communities. And we have asked you to go there, to the forums where there is talk of having sufficient funding to cover all the services Catalans need. Of course we've talked about it a thousand times. It is you who either do not attend these forums or, as you have done here today, acknowledge in the plenary that your priority is 'neverendum'. Or that when you're going to talk to President Sanchez, you speak 90_per_cent of the process. You're not looking for new funding, better, as we do. You, one way, let us say, to deepen the fracture of coexistence is to close, as you have closed, this Parliament. That's deepening the fracture of coexistence. Or to denigrate it, to make everyone who is part of it, so we cannot act on equal terms, because you manage, distort the rules that govern us all to trample on the rights of all, as was done on 6 and 7 September, and from this it all came. From these illegal agreements overstepping the rights of the opposition was born that referendum which you say was born with a rule, which was already illegal here, and with another one of disconnection, which was absolutely illegal and, by the way, a democratic shame, because it was to appoint Mr Puigdemont the judges to the finger. It was a shame, the supreme rule that no one could appeal against it, as you approved here with 72 votes, when to move a coma of the Statut d'autonomia you have to have 90 votes, and you with 72 gave it all for good, you charged the Constitution and the Statute illegally and then everything that came from there was illegal. That, that also upsets and affects coexistence. You have not spoken anything – I suppose, because you were lucky that I in this first part, for I have not touched on the subject – but, of the 3_per_cent, of corruption, of this last arrest of a lord of the PDECAT, mayor for thirty years, of Convergence, and now in the Diputation of Lleida, this last arrest for corruption. You haven't said anything. You focus a lot on the referendum, when the referendum in question is not the plan you have now, or yes, because sometimes it seems to be yes and sometimes it seems like it is to implement the republic, and sometimes it seems like you want more referendums. I will tell you that the party that has won the elections in Quebec lately have been with the promise of never, ever, ever – never, never, never – a referendum more in Quebec, because it has impoverished them and divided them. And you, as far as division is concerned, have managed to divide Catalan society into two halves and disappoint the two halves – disappoint the two halves. The dialogue to which you refer, Mr Torra, requires acceptance of the rules of the game, and it does not seem very democratic, for example, nor does it seem much acceptance of the rules of the game, to refer to that, if a sentence you do not like, then you call the revolt. That's not very democratic, nor does it allow me to live quietly with people who are telling you: "No, no, it's just that if I don't like the sentence, I'm out on the street. Oh, and if we don't like it, will we go out on the street? Well, no. We don't, because we're democrats, and we respect the rules of the game. Others do not respect them and want to win what does not give them democracy, to win it by force, by threat, by coercion and by jumping the laws. To you, this I tell you, maybe it sounds like threats, because to me I'm always very surprised when you say we threaten, when we tell you that you have to comply with the laws like any neighbor's child. And this seems to you to be a horrific threat. That which you as a government enforce to all, to all citizens, and force you to pay taxes, and to pay the fines for the things that you do wrong, when you are told that you have to do the same, then it seems to you the most horrendous of threats. Because you think you're invested in a layer of immunity that I don't know by what idea, I don't know if it's that of superior beings, but it seems to you that... well, you're not subject to the same laws as everyone else. And then you're also curious that I censor, Mr. Torra, the tone I use. The truth is that each one speaks as he speaks and is more or less vehemently, but that you give me lessons of tone, Mr. Torra, with the articles he has written, and having called "beasts to those of Citizens", and "beasts with dna taras to the rest of Spaniards..., therefore, he does not cease to have his grace. It's picturesque. As for... look, we, in this plenary, have brought this plenary here to recover the priority of the social agenda. And that will be the way, the way, to keep this government from going deeper into the social divide. That's the idea – that's the idea. You, apart from not answering the examples we have set of a break in living together, which you have gone from point to point, when we talk about social initiatives, because, look, yesterday, in the general policy debate, we put in place a lot of initiatives, we put them to the vote of the plenary and its group, the group that supports the Government, voted against all the social proposals that we were bringing here. The truth is that some prospered in spite of him. Look, another thing, already to end with regard to the replicas, and before ratifying, in the opinion of Citizens, that, after all, when you take the floor, because it is to express that project you have, the last of the replicas is that you seem to us to continue to deny absolutely the reality. I mean, you haven't dealt, at all, with all that is the break-up of coexistence. He doesn't deal with that, and he answers us with things that from his mental frame the truth is that you should see them very well, but we're surprised. When he invited us to go see Catalonia and go see the castle hills and all that, he gave me a lot of feeling that you think that we are, I don't know, as tourists that we are passing by living here. [[Greetings.]] I've freaked out! – I've freaked out! Do you feel very normal? « Vagina to see Catalonia and the castlers. It's such a nationalist rhetoric, so contemptive towards others... hey, but what do you think? What do you know about my life? What do you know about my relationship with Catalonia and where I have walked and where I have not? You assume that since I'm a bitch of those who screams and puts resources, then, I haven't gone to see a fucking castle in my life. Well, I don't know, you go on with your beliefs – you go on with your beliefs – Mr. Torra. It is difficult, from that perspective with which you see the world, which has expressed us in many of its writings, it is difficult for us to come to an understanding. That is why we have to prioritize what we will certainly agree on, because at least it seems to us that we have to deal with all Catalans, those who come by the way, those who have a tourist's soul, those who are independentists and all – of all. Look, I repeat, measures that must result from this plenary, in the opinion of Citizens: we commit ourselves to respecting all Catalans. Thank you for your invitation to the castles. I invite you, therefore, I do not know, to see at Christmas how I know nothing in the port of Barcelona the free swimming that. I don't know if you've ever seen him. You must be from Blanes? In Barcelona we do these things, too. Second: to tell the truth – to tell the truth – and not to disappoint half the Catalans, too, or almost half, because you do not arrive, who vote for you. Tell them the truth too. We are very concerned – and it is the cause of this schism, which we live in Catalonia, collective – with this collective frustration, these hopes that have been breathed to many people of things that are not going to happen, that are impossible, of years of heating up the street, of years without governing for all. This is one of the reasons why we have this social fracture. Third: condemn violence – condemn violence –, which you have done here, and so on, but also condemn that of the CDRs. Also condemn, for example, what Mrs Núria de Gispert said the other day. We are going to bring in a vote if Parliament considers that an expression from Parliament has to tell an opposition leader to leave. Mrs. De Gispert no longer goes by to teach the castles to Mrs. Arrimadas, she says: "Look, directly door. I just don't even see castles. So, we ask you also to condemn such supremacist and ugly, ultranationalist acts. Condemn the Nuria de Gispert, condemn the CDRs, condemn and stop the threats to the revolt if the sentences do not tell you what you think. That's very healthy, democratically – that's very healthy. Fourth: respect the symbolology in the institutions. Respect her. They respect the neutrality of the institutions. Fifth: let us come to that pact, so that in what we are not going to agree on – it is that we are going to be fought – then let us lead from here to Catalan society in things in which we can all agree, that there are, and many, there are. I'm sure there are a lot of social things we can agree on. Well, let's prioritize that social agenda. After all the interventions, all the groups will present measures in this respect. Let us see in which we can agree, that by prioritizing these measures we can come to pacify or appease a little this fracture that we have in Catalonia; but dialogue always within the rules of the game, Mr Torra, yes. I mean, there's no point in one being created above the rules, the rules of play, and the other having to comply with the rules. So, let's all respect the legal framework, let's talk inside it and do things to work for all Catalans. Dialogue is very important, first of all, dialogue between the Catalans themselves. That is also what this plenary is about: trying to have a dialogue between us in order to take forward the social measures in which we are all in agreement. It's just that I insist to the point of satiety on this: there we all have meeting points. We have said this a thousand times: the queue of unemployment is the same, whether you are independent or not; the waiting list is the same, whether you are independent or not. Let's talk about that, because we're going to favor the rest of our citizens. Finally, Mr. Torra, I'm telling you, I'm done. If this plenary is to serve for something, it would have to serve for you to make that gesture to condemn all these attitudes that make so many Catalans feel as if they were not counted on them, as if they were considered foreigners on their land or as if they were considered enemies. Do something else. Let's talk about the things that unite us, let's talk. This is the occasion. But you, then, do not omit all those things that I ask you to condemn, put on your batteries, do not omit them and leave me with... well, well, with things that are not true. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.135.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Forward, Mr. Ramon Swordler. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.136.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the Generality, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that, from the outset, at the moment we are living, we should like to thank all the interventions, which lead us to a debate that is certainly very, very, very confrontational; but in any case, I believe that this is a good thing, and that I should give our conscience and, in some way, highlight it. Even so, even more so, the first question I see in the head before the President left, is what would the independence world do without the Citizen and what would the Citizen do without the independence world? Because listen, a little, the opinions of one side and another, what we have seen is, therefore, as a permanent feedback, and it seems, and we have the feeling, that we are trapped in this circle where each one is justified only by contrasting to the other, there are reasons for both, because these reasons are actually there. In fact, it does not hold – it does not hold –, therefore, too much insight to conclude that, probably, the debate would go a long way here, that we would just mention the great social issues, but that we would enter into that which, in some way, would be discussed in this debate, which is, therefore, whether there is a fracture in this country or not. And we believe that there are worrying elements, from this perspective, in the country's context, and we deeply regret that, on the one hand, the Ciutadans bench is simply limited to putting the process at the origin of all the problems, lacking or obviating – obviating – that 47_percent of the citizens of this country have made choices for the independence world, the same way that the Government of the Generality foresaw that 53_percent of the citizenry has not made this choice and claims to the Government, precisely, these policies also social, without leaving aside a debate that is obviously central, therefore, to our country. And that, in some ways, is what we would also like to take advantage of to talk about, the need to do these social policies, the need not to break down as a consequence of the absence or inadequacy of social policies, because this is a real risk that we have with the country, but also, obviously, the need not to break down more because of the division that we each think of ourselves – and this is very respectable, it would only be lacking – respects the future of our country, doesn't it? From the perspective of the parliamentary group that I would like to represent, the Socialists and Units for Progress, we believe that – and I start with social policies – they have been twice as penalized. Social policies have been penalised twice, on the one hand, for the details that have been maintained since 2010 and we have not been able to reverse – and this is also, obviously, responsible – but they have also been penalised, social policies, because we have always seen them subsidising or secondary, before the great objective... Only if we had fixed on which central axis was the intervention of the very honorable president, who supported everything, put it all to the service of the object, in short, of the republic. There is a figure that serves a little to explain what we have been living: it is the fallacy of nirvana. The fallacy of the nirvana was much theorized by Voltaire and consists in contrasting in some way some solutions that could be real– and that, therefore, very likely will be imperfect– with which it is a perfect alternative. For you, the independence world, the perfect alternative, the solution, is the republic, and therefore it will give us solution to all the other problems – the President of the Generality has said so – and, therefore, it obviously subordinates all the other proposals. Fix yourself, if not..., and some examples we would find, we would find many; I chose not three, because they help make this reflection and position us, somehow. There's been talk of poor energy. That there is a certain leave over the poor energy show it the figures and answers of the same government. That after the legislation, which has been complex to make, which has been resorted to, etc., is made a match of up to 10_million euros to attend to the dramatic reality of the energy poor and there is only 6.4_million euros, that is, that a 36_percent does not thank, means that it is not the priority – that is to say that it is not the priority. They have an instrument, they have the game in this case, they're not smaller people, and at the time of truth this isn't up, because they're probably prioritizing other things or they're not giving themselves the importance that these policies have. And back to the legislation – as an example of what I'm trying to say. In a way, you have legislated socially sensitive matters, with an objective..., also with an objective, I do not say exclusively, but also with an objective to counter a supposedly insensitive central government, then in the hands of the PP; which was, in many things was. But many times this competitive conflict has been pursued more, aware of what was going to be done, than not trying, therefore, to make legislation a real element to solve the real problems we have with the country, right? And I could send some e-mail from some member of this chamber that went to the Economics Council and that was made public and that said: "Do not suffer for the development of this law's regulations, if at the zero minute it will fall for the Constitutional... And that's a reality. So here, too, there's a deliberate attempt to subordinate everything to what this event in the republic is supposed to solve everything, isn't there? And yet a couple more examples, declared, in the mouth both of Consteller Artadi and of the same President of the Generality, around the first meeting after the motion of censure with President Sánchez on behalf, therefore, of the very honorable President of the Generality. I read the quote, because it is literal, of July 3, 2018, of Mrs Artadi, before the communication media; says: "The presidents must have a high political discussion and, if there is, if there is such a high political discussion, we will consider working bilaterally for the partial themes. What we will not do is put ourselves to work on partial issues focusing on sectoral debates. Another time: for you sectoral policies are in some way partial, in some way secondary. But it's that the President of the Generality, the very beginning of the meeting with President Sánchez, was still more explicit and endorsed this thesis that I was putting them up. He literally said to Catalonia Radio: « 90_percent of the meeting time we talked about self-determination, because this is the theme – « 90_percent of the time we talked about self-determination, because this is the theme – and I can't entertain – the quote is literal – « in others that are lower priorities. So look, for the Socialists and Unions Parliamentary Group to move forward, these social issues are neither minor priorities nor secondary issues; they are very important. And we also give it to the people of Ciutadans. And they must not go to the detriment of the debate that this country needs. It is not possible to obviate a 47_percent citizen of this country who have made an option. Another thing is whether what they put before them is possible or not. We believe that it is not, and we believe that what is happening these days, these last hours, in this Parliament proves that it is not possible. And, therefore, someone will have to have the courage to tell the citizen and the citizen that everything that had to go so quickly, that everything that was so easy, that everything that would be so wonderful, so, in a way, as in the words in which it stood, that is not possible. Therefore, for us, I insist, these themes cannot, in short, wait for the event of the republic, among other things because this obviously will not come and these needs will grow even more if we are not able to give them answers. And they're fears that they're certain to require more resources, economic advisor, certainly, vice president of the government, they're more resources, they're demanding competitive clarification. And this is a path that needs to be pursued and in which it appreciates its will, so, on the part of the Sánchez government, surely imperfect from its logic, but in any case, it wants to de-conflict in the legislative sphere. And they obviously require this increase in resources that can be made..., which is not going to come back, but in any case it has to be attended – and before anyone remembered it –, so not only to the bilateral commissions, which also, and welcome, but also to those multilateral commissions. It cannot be, the Government of the Generalitat, absent from those prisons where we are talking about our resources, which, as the President says, are not the resources of the Government of the Generalitat, are the resources that go to the hands of citizens and citizens of this country in shape, in this case that we are dealing with today, of social policies, right? But in any case, and above all, these issues obviously need to be prioritized. And to do politics, to capdavall, is, in short, to prioritize, and for us to prioritize is, as I said, Mr Vice President of the Government and responsible for the economic portfolio, to go to all the forums where these aspects are discussed. It also represents being more effective in fighting tax fraud and tax evasion. It is also, obviously, much more effective in managing administrations and resources, in short, public; this is a deure that cannot be taken away in any way, is it not? And so that the good intentions voted in the general policy debate, in short, had its realization in the debate of assumptions. But this very clarity that we are asking, therefore, for the Government of the Generality we also see ourselves in the heart of demanding it from the people of Ciutadans. Because it is very easy to come here and list the challenges that we have from the social perspective to the country, but with the other hand, when they are voting at the level of the Congress of Deputies, they limit the expense, with which thing – and this is a problem and is well known to the Vice President of the Government of the Government of Catalonia – they deprive us of a lot of resources that could be used to make these social policies that you ask for. Six thousand million minus, in short, this difference between 1.1 and 2.1, which would be admitted for the European Union, represents, therefore, that the autonomous communities do not make up 4,800 million more than it could, in some way, arrange in this way. So what we are asking for in these complex debates, which are thorny, where there are personal implications – and it is obvious that this is so – therefore, that there is this rigour and sensitivity and that social policies can serve them, but also, obviously, they are coherent here and there. It's hard for me to know that there's no President of the Generality, because I put the second and the second part of the intervention. He is a person, therefore, who esteems our classics and who ended up with an appointment, in the name of Josep Rull, of one of our poets, of Espriu. I would also like to make another reference to the poet Espriu when to the First Story of Esther, the Altissim, addressing everyone, says: "Think that the miracle of truth dives into small fragments, and each of the back pieces also contains a wreath of the light, that is, a wreath of truth. So, mirin, we as a parliamentary group do not believe in the absolute truth. We have our truth, and we defend it and defend it until the end. But we are able and we need to make the effort and invite all the pleas that make the effort to hear that there are truths, there are truths in the files of City when they say that there are many distressed people; there are truths in the files of City when we can share when they say that there are public servants who, beyond what they say, do not happen to not go down or not..., and there are truths when they say that people are insulted, so, certainly, because they do not buy with what is legitimate, that this is an independent republican horist. As there are also dramatic truths on the part of independence, when they refer to the injustice of an excessive prison, of an absolutely disproportionate measure of provisional detention. What we will not do, and this is part of our truth, is turn this opinion, which we can hear perfectly, into a parliamentary mandate from the legislature to the judiciary. Why is it that the day we break the rules of the game we are left without the possibility, in the end, of being able to move forward, right? And, therefore, from our truth what we offer is a position that in the first place is non-frontist, in the first place is a non-frontist position, and it seems to me important, obviously, as all the expressions that will feel today from this forum, that we reject and claim the radical rebuff of all the violence, come from where you come and go to where you are going. That's what I think obviously we're all on board. And our truth also says, and we pose it to you..., to the consideration of all of you, is the one that says that politics is to be done in institutions, not from CDRs, not from the street. And it has to be done in the framework of legality, that legality that we can transform if we don't share it, and it's legitimate not to share it. But in any case, these are our truths, as is the need, on the one hand, to respect the freedom of opinion, only it would be missing – it is a constitutional or phonenal right, tell it as usual, to one and the other gang of the hemisphere – but this can also not become a monopoly of public space. I know what it's like to feel at Vic's square that you said, and I know how people who probably don't share this way feel. You can't do this monopoly of public space. Nor can it be prevented that there is a free expression on the part of many citizens of my city, the overwhelming majority, who suffer and share this view. And I think it's just from respect and the ability to hear that truth is not property of anyone, but that all the folds have a very big responsibility before the country's side... because, otherwise, the only thing we're gonna do is finish it all. And it seems to me that this is not in anyone's experience. This is our proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.137.0	Mr. Swordler...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.138.0	...from here, in short: we continue to build, to respect ourselves, to advance within the parameters of what is legality, to make policy in institutions, to respect those rights that are ultimately fundamental and to be able to tell the citizen and citizens of this country, therefore, that this chamber is where politics is, more than not on the road, and this chamber will give solutions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.139.0	Mr. Swordler, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.140.0	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.141.0	Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.142.0	Well, good morning to you all, President, President. In my first speech as a Member of this House, I already expressed the feeling that I had to be living like a machine of the time, that all the time carries us back and forth. On that occasion it was on the basis of the decree that you recovered a share of the pay when you worked in 2012, and we already lived where you thought you were going to debate one thing and then it turns out that it's not out of the order of the day and they're going to do it again another day. In fact, we're still doing enough at the same time, because they're still waiting, precisely, to schedule the payment of what's left of 2013 and 2014. Jo, ever since you said I've had the same feeling another time of travel in the past. Now we are not going to July, when a ple was suspended because there was a lack of agreement between the forces of the government at the time of establishing the substitution mechanism of the deputies and deputies suspected of justice Llarena, and as if you passed, that many thought that you would also pass yesterday, and that, by luck, no; by luck, yesterday, we were able to conclude the general policy debate. Too bad we missed four votes. And yes, yes, they missed it, which is why I reiterate the request that this group made to the Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, because, please, they find a way to give compliments to the plenary of last week and they can have these four votes, because we want the resulting majority on 21 December to be respected, because it is their right, but it is also their duty. With this Ple we also make a journey in the past. Let us return once again to July, to the plethora proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. As they are the proposing group, they will allow me to dedicate them, practically without delay, my intervention. We had the opportunity to dedicate the general policy debate to the government last week, but in this case, I think they deserve it, and I took the time and the dedication to do it. Because it seems that there are people in this Parliament who do not like the way coexistence was built, which is the model of coexistence and social cohesion in Catalonia. They do not like the generosity that characterizes a good part of Catalan society, that they learn to live and live with their veins and veins. Maybe because they consider that this situation doesn't give them enough electoral performance. A parliamentary group that wants to stir up the conflict, once in a while, because it is that no conflict will surely only have three Members. They are now thirty-six, but they serve them exactly as they serve them, because they are alone and unable to lead with agreement, no proposal that goes beyond yourselves. Captain. They have won the elections in Catalonia, but they cannot and will not be able to govern it that way: no, from the conflict. Because just as the supporters of the imaginary republic leave out and ignore a large part of the social majority in Catalonia, so you do the same, they also leave out a large part of the Catalan society that they do feel identified with what they assumed October 1st for many people. And not so, so it's not building a cohesive country project; No. It's done with generosity. That's how he builds the conflict, which is what they do. Their only plan in these parliamentary deities has been precisely to make the left bigger, or to try to make the left bigger that can live Catalan citizenship. In fact, they are years in which they have not stopped stimulating hatred in Catalonia, and also in Spain, because precisely hate is the opposite of coexistence, but that is what you think the voters give away. Now, they've grown VOX for ultrathreat. It may not even have good electoral results due to this polarization and this conflict. Make 'em look good, 'cause that's probably not even what they'll get from the conflict. And the proof that they like the conflict... – I'd like to compare the interventions of yesterday's Mr. Carrizosa and today's, wouldn't I? Yesterday it was flowing, with little gain, wasn't it? And it is that, of course, they expected another time that they would rise up, that they would leave the plenary, that they would do everything, and they couldn't do it, they didn't have that moment that they had, right? We rise up and threaten to bring justice and all that.... And, then, he was like a little tebi. Not today, it was in great shape, huh? He went back to his own style of conflict, some resentment and even some desire for revenge, it seemed. Because you're talking about getting back together. What kind of cohabitation? Perhaps the one that puts in danger, with her excursions, the Mrs. Arrimadas and her team, when they visit the different peoples of Catalonia this summer, with their scissors. And with Mr. Rivera as a star guest. It is that there was no conflict in the street, there was no conflict in the street where you are not involved in any way, before, during, after. There's always some time when Citizens appear in these conflict situations. They always have something to see. They're talking about getting back together. According to the RAE, "living together is the action of living together. Living together is living with others. When did he stop doing this in Catalonia? And it's a sincere question: really, when did he stop doing it? But vagina for the street, vagina for the place, vagina for the markets, vagina for the major parties. It's just that this reality you described isn't what most people saw, it's not alive: it's not like that. Living together in Catalonia forms part of every day, forms part because people believe in their streets, believe in their lives, and they like to live. They like to live well, they like to live decently, and they like to live in peace. And when there were moments of crisis, when there were confrontations between the veins and between the families, these spaces remained the best way to do it. Any of us? From empathy, from generosity, from that exercise to putting yourself on the skin of others, and that's what they demand, that sometimes they do this exercise to putting themselves on the skin of others. Just as they ask the partisans of the imaginary republic, that they would also do well to stand at some point in the skin of others to try to build a space for everyone. Empathy, as they say, is a basic thing for coexistence. Do they know what makes living together in Catalonia dangerous, and so does the rest of Spain? When they dismiss a family so that they can't face the mortgage or abuse they have, that puts living together in danger, and in Catalonia this happens more than anywhere else in the State. This does put cohabitation in danger. Also when you can't pay for the light, when you can't pay for the water, when it's cold, it's seven or one you can't shower when you want because you're a victim of poor energy. This also puts cohabitation in danger. Also, when the security forces of the State use force, excessive and unjustified force to suppress peaceful social mobilization. And I'm not just talking about October 1st, I'm talking about May 15th and many other mobilizations we've experienced in the past few years. Also when Ciutadans and the People's Party are desperately demanding once and for all a new application of 155 to put order another time. You know perfectly well how it affected a large majority of the people of Catalonia this 155, this retreat from self-government, which did not serve for what you wanted and, in change, again ask. But what kind of cohabitation is this that they want to get back? So they want her back? Neither is cohabitation, nor does it help to regain cohabitation, when there is a party, or two, calling for the illegalization of another party just because it thinks differently and acts differently, and when it does not take into account the thousands of citizens to whom it represents that party. This also puts cohabitation in danger. But above all – above all, above all – what puts the most danger in living together is when the model of Catalan public school is attacked, which is what you have made its main bastion, and I say to them that it is indignant. It is the greatest consensus that has been built in this country since the restoration of democracy, the greatest, of all political forces until you arrived. And that's what I say to the daughter of emigrants from the south, from Extremadura, from the interior of València, who came here and who went to school part of this model that encourages, and yes, uses català as the majority language of education. Yeah, that's it. But I'm also saying it like the mother of a eight-year-old girl who goes to one of these schools, public, inclusive and quality. If they attack this model and attack this coexistence, they will be alone in Catalonia, they will follow alone, as it has been so far. Leave the schools in pau. Leave them. Leave the parents and the mothers who solve their differences, their conflicts, their wills to find consensus on the education of their children, on which they tend. Schools in Catalonia have infrastructure problems, lack of teachers, lack of training resources, lack of inclusive ducks, lack of green ducks. They have problems because they have segregation, and because they also have many students and many students who are in families who suffer from poor energy, who suffer from denunciation, who cannot have a safe diet. These are the problems of the schools in Catalonia, not coexistence. Catalonian schools have no problem with living together, the problem may be that you have it. By luck, by luck, you have not succeeded, and you have not managed to break this coexistence, because before that is the solidarity and brotherhood of the people who work together. From the people who endure denials, from the people who come out on the street in solidarity with the victims of La Manada, from the people who ask for more labor rights or the 1st of October, also from the people of the anti-retail tides, and also from those who came out on the 1st of October to defend the schools when they did not agree, when they did not want to vote, did not want to participate, when they did not believe that it was a referendum, but they came out when they saw that they were beating their lives and their lives, and they went out to defend their schools. And if all this point of wanting to get back together is ironic and even sarcastic, now we move on to another point, which is still more ironic and sarcastic. I don't know if it'll give me time to list all the contradictions I wanted to put on the table. How can they come here to talk about priorities on the social agenda when they do what they do in Madrid, the only place where they really have real influence in which politics are fans, which policies are adopted and in which they are not fans. And I will make a quick enumeration: they voted against a better regulation of widowhood pensions, from the rebuff to the privatisation of public health services, which denounced the corruption of water, and which called for the elimination of revolving doors; from the popular legislative initiative for basic income; from a proposal for a law on the protection of the environment; from the creation of a public banking policy from Bankia, Banc Mare Nostrum and ICO; they abstained from voting on the proposal to repeal the 2010 and 2012 labour reforms; they abstained on the non-law proposal concerning the development of the curry sector as a policy of occupation, economic recovery, social and priority equality. Yes, they voted in favour of a version 2.0 of the express denunciation, which leaves no alternative to housing the families, with the companies of the PDECAT. I vetoed the PAH Housing Act. They have put an end to the proposal to regulate the market for housing and to prevent undue increases in renovations, with an increase in the duration of contracts. Not even the suns will be able to vote in favor of getting Mariano Rajoy out. It is you who are following Pinya at the Congress Table with the People's Party, and have paralysed a total of thirty-six social proposals, such as the proposal on minimum wages or the ILP on care for dependent people, the two social ones, and they are just two examples of thirty-six. Do they really want to talk about social policies? Do you want to do anything more than talk about social policies? I am voting in Madrid as a result of which you are presenting here for debate. It is also you who have called for flexibility in the presuppositional path until there are 2,500_million fewer in the presupposition for the autonomous communities. Of these, 500, for Catalonia. You want Catalonia to invest, but stop this reversal. I'm on my way. Do you have any real proposals in social matters? Real, real, huh? While it's on show here, we get up, we get back, we get up, we get back and the government is in trouble, Barcelona takes responsibility for responding to a lot of the problems that Catalonia has, and that's it. While the Parliament is blocked, the Barcelona Assembly is connected to its own energy. What is your proposal to stop relying on the monopolies of electricity, which have made the bidding of higher rates of history? While Catalonia is paralyzed, Barcelona approves a pioneer measure throughout the State to force the new housing-deprived promotions to the fact that 30_per_cent of these are affordable. We're the first gathering that's stopped the reversal fund and the Mobbing Societies, preventing speculators from targeting the veins. Who is his proposal in housing and to prevent him from continuing to push the loguers? Quina? As you continue with the show, the Barcelona Assembly has made a plan against the tax fraud that has allowed 56 million large companies, large monopolies. They make so few proposals, so few, that for Barcelona they have had to go looking for a strange fitxatge, beyond the winter market, besides, a fitxatge to which was not going too well to their country, a fitxatge that, although it coincide ideologically with you, has not just said that it is present with Ciutadans and that it is from Ciutadans, but that it is a platform. I mean, I don't think Mr. Valls thinks you have any real proposals, either for Barcelona or for Catalonia. Here we are the ones who bring solutions, and see it in the debate of the motions for resolutions, proposals to improve the financing of social policies, to reverse the policy of retailing, to increase social spending and to recognize the local world and the assemblies as the real institutions of change in Catalonia. If you bet to unlock the priority of the social agenda, stop unlocking the laws and social proposals in Madrid, otherwise, what we'll hear is that they just want to follow the show, with more shows, and they don't want to solve anything, neither social problems nor anything else. So I'm done, taking advantage of the fact that I don't have time to make them a suggestion for the next time they want to make a ple like this. A title. I believe that the title that I am most fond of this Ple..., and I will use the Spanish chorus to see that we can speak perfectly and we also dominate the culture that we have studied in Catalan, and I think the title would be: « Tell me what you presume and I will tell you what you lack. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.143.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity – Constituent Creed, has the word Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.144.0	Good afternoon, everyone. With Citizens, not to share, we do not even share the second part of the title that they give to the present monogram ple. They say'recovery of social coexistence between Catalans'. We say that we do not share it, obviously, because the social coexistence between Catalans and Catalans has not been lost. We can tell you that in relation to our families, our lives and our lives, our working companions, our study center companions, we have not lost our lives together. And we think it's not just about us, it's about most of the country's conjunction. We'd also like to think that you didn't, and if you did, what we have to say is that our experience is in a bad way. They also say, Ciutadans, in the call text of this Ple, and I read it textually: « With the result of the loss of more than four thousand companies that have decided to move to other parts of Spain. There was no such thing, and you know it, four thousand companies that have shut down their activity in Catalonia and decided to transfer this activity to the Spanish State, it is absolutely false. What has happened, and you know it, is that there has been a whole series of entrepreneurs who have decided to change their social home. And, obviously, we don't agree with this, and we don't like it, but we don't like it doesn't mean we're not going to figure out who the cause really was. First reason for this: the first reason is a normal change, which you gave support to and which the People's Party government did at the state level. According to the motto: a whole series of entrepreneurs who have political ties with the 155 matches and who have obviously promoted this process. The third element: those companies from which we call'regulated sectors', which saw what was going on one day, when they withdrew their deposits, had very clearly what was the slogan that had been given by some political parties. Interestingly, also in this text, and which you are planting today's debate, we are talking about "neutrality in public space. And, look, you've spent a whole summer asking for neutrality in public space occupying this public space with party acts. And, obviously, we are absolutely in favour of you being able to do so, but you must be consistent, because you cannot go out and cry out to public space with partisan acts that public space must be neutral; keeping a minimum of coherence. That's right, we'll tell them again: it seems wonderful to us that they do political acts in public space. But we believe that public space must not be neutral, it must reflect the political plurality of the country, and if it does not reflect the political reality of the country we are in other realities that are non-democratic. It also talks to us, Ciutadans, about social fracture, and we will deny that there is a social fracture resulting from what is the national construction process of our country. But we do think that there is another social fracture that also gives to the rest of our surroundings. And this social fracture is a class social fracture: closing from poverty, 24_percent Catalans and Catalans; social fracture of the working class, with a quarter of Catalans who do not have a salary for over 1,000_euro, in the case of women, lower. Social fracture of women who suffer, because they are murdered to be women, male violence; they are raped, they are assaulted and they are discriminated against solely because they are women. Social fracture of people who have migrated, who arrive in our country and who do not recognize all the political rights, and also the Catalans and the Catalans who leave. Social fracture of the popular classes, in the waiting lists of the sanitary, and in the expulsion by economic questions of the public university. The social fracture of the reality of the new real estate model, in which it gets stuck of our barrels. This is the authentic and the only social fracture. That, yes, you have an agenda of social character. So what has City done in the past few years for this agenda? Mirin, not the one you voted on, but the one you did not allow to vote on: a total of thirty-six regulations at state level– thirty-six–, simply to remind you of some that you have blocked: up from the minimum wage, up from all pensions according to the IPC or better from the Law of Dependency. But beyond that, what do you propose from a social point of view? So they propose express denunciation, for one band, and, for another band, the one contract, which is at the same time unique, without cause and with less compensation. This is the social agenda that you have developed at state level. But what did they vote here in this chamber? Simply a reference of which they did not vote in favour: they did not vote in favour of the Universalisation Bill for healthcare, the Proposition of the Law against Banking Abuse, the limitation of the contract for the transfer of public health workers to the private sector, the finding of an increase in Islamophobia or the realization of studies in order to be able to see the step of the private school concluded to the public network. That's what they haven't voted for, and yet you're talking about a social agenda. The band, we do not want to forget that in this Parliament it has tried, by active and passive, with all its defects, to develop social regulations. And what has happened to most of this social legislation? So what has happened to us everyone knows: that the Constitutional Court has been responsible for suspending or nullifying the majority of this legislation. We have tried, beyond what the Constitutional Court does, to continue to recover these laws. And we put forward a motion for a resolution that was voted on in this House, and you... there was a first point, which was the one that was referring to 9-N, that they decided not to vote on it. It is consistent in this case, yes; it is coherent and legitimate, but there were three points more and in the rest of the points there was a point that made it very clear "recover social laws, suspicious laws, void laws and you decided not to vote. It is legitimate, but obviously it assumes its responsibilities. We also say that we will continue, in any case, to fight for social policies in this Parliament. But we also want to address the Government, and we have always told the Government that deep social policies are not possible with the policies of the troika and with the Spanish State, but that some social policies are possible that can give answer to the situation that the working class suffers: lists of expectations of sanitation or the situation of public education require urgent social policies and that they are possible. And we are not being answered by the government in relation to this issue. And we insist on this idea, we are very clear that deep policies with or within the Spanish State are not possible; but, at times, we believe that it is necessary to increase the number of Catalans and Catalans willing to build the republic that in the centrality of government action is political in order to favor the popular classes. And, last but not least, because of the feeling that we have a good part of our people with which we have spent the past week, reflection: it is true that, far from our history, social rights always – and the Republic is also a great social right – have been won with mobilizations on the street, with waves and with self-organisation processes. This will be the mechanism through which we will have the republic. This will not, unfortunately, give effect to this institutionality every day that is absolutely empty of sovereignty, but with an organized people, with a mobilized people and with a people that has nine entities of alternative institutionality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.145.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.146.0	Thank you very much, President. This debate came at the time preceded by a motion on coexistence that had also been tabled by the Citizens' Group, and I also had the opportunity to position my party in it. And it was a shorter intervention, it was five_minutes. And, don't scare me Mrs. Segovia, but I built it by matching with her around the idea of empathy, respect, putting us in each other's place. And he ended up saying that part of the solution, not all of it, but part of it had to go by understanding that we all had feelings. That's what I was saying at the time. What happens is that this attitude of empathy is absolutely necessary but not sufficient. In order for coexistence to take place, a number of conditions must also be given that could be described as systemic. Some of which I will say, then, I know that there are people we like, but it is that they are absolutely essential and history shows it: the rule of law, the principle of authority – among other things, because two others emanate from them: to abide by judicial decisions, even if we do not like them, and to accept that in democracy only the forces and security forces of the State have the monopoly of violence. This does not mean, in fact, impunity. It is the courts that have to decide whether such violence is carried out in a proportionate or adequate manner. And with that return to the courts, a virtuous circle of coexistence is closed. Last October 1 was assaulted, or attempted to assault the Parliament of Catalonia. Much has been said about this episode, but I don't think it has sometimes been given the symbolic value it has. I don't know if you've noticed that. Also returning to history, to what it means to assault a democratic parliament. It means a lot of things. It has been the precedent of terrible things in the history of world democracies. And here fortunately we could qualify that episode of a low-intensity insurrection because, thank God, for the Mossos d'Esquadra they did not have to use themselves dramatically in order to dissolve that assault. I remember that, at the end of that episode, then, surfing on social networks, I got a lot of attention that not one, not two, not three, but very young people who had participated in that episode hung two videos in their profiles under the title of "Los Mossos no longer represent us. Saying, one of the videos was, the mossos, therefore, dissolving the assault with batons. And in the other, there were twenty or thirty people hugging the mossos, like they were teletubbies, right? Give me a hug, these don't represent us anymore. I'm very surprised because it gives you an idea of how incredibly confused many young people are about how society and the rule of law work. To the indignation caused by these images, I must admit that there was concern, even sadness. Last Sunday, in an interview, highly recommended, to the New Yorker Jonathan Haidt, who is a left-wing Jewish intellectual, who has written a lot about coexistence and freedom, some extraordinary pages, pointed out that some of the problems of current coexistence are manicheism and the fragility of broad layers of society. And he was talking about frustrated and irritable young people, but curiously fragile. Irrescitable but fragile, because they were unable to understand that coexistence is inextricably linked to the rule of law, the principle of authority and the culture of commitment to the rules of play. They are absolutely convinced, and that is why they are irascible, that in this life you do what you want at every moment, and if I want to go assault Parliament, then assault Parliament. And it's funny that that's the culture you're spreading. There's the problem. Why is this government in Catalonia absolutely incompatible with coexistence? Unfortunately, it no longer meets any of the requirements to which I referred at the beginning of my speech. First, personal attitude, that empathy to which we referred. The President of the Generalitat..., the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has indicated that he committed an offence related to this empathy, even if it has been prescribed. But then they continue to do pedagogy of not complying with the rules of play, pedagogy of insurrection, pedagogy of not complying with the law, of not accepting the principle of authority. With this we find a government that, to the fact that it does not have a social majority, to the fact that it has lost since yesterday the parliamentary majority, we add that today it does not comply with any of the ethical principles necessary to continue to carry out its work. But it is clear that Mr Torra does not resign. I asked him the other day. And I think... I would like to address my fellow citizens: I think this plenary is very well, we voted in favour of its celebration, but it is now time to table a motion of censure. And the time has come to table a motion of censure because we have had discrepancies, especially at the beginning of the legislature, but when it comes to defending freedom we go on the same boat. And I know that our contribution in number of seats is modest but our voice will be heard very loudly to support a change, if you present a motion of censure. We will win the debate on the motion of censure on the street, before public opinion, of course, because our ideas are better and stronger. But it's just that even this time we can win it here numerically. If we are able to, invoking the spirit of the 6th and 7th of September, add that alliance for freedom, the commons and the PSC, as we did in those days. You can get it. They are not very predisposed, but we must be absolutely clear that right now the dignity of this Parliament and of the Catalan institutions is at stake. The time has come to put an end to this agony: present a motion of censure. I can assure you that if we had thirty-six seats, we would present it right now. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it's the turn, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs. Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.148.0	Thank you, President. Today we celebrate a ple on the priority of the social agenda and coexistence in Catalonia. And it's good to discuss the two issues together because a more egalitarian country is a more cohesive country. But this is also a ple so as to say how much they have the confrontation as their only project. Anyway, I'd say it's her oxygen and they need it all the time to keep breathing. And, to begin with, yes, remember that Catalonia has inequalities that need to be fought to have a more cohesive and fairer society, but what is not a fracture by reason of identity. They have not built their entire political career and their parliamentary presence precisely in the arch of the division. And we are not the first parliamentary group to think about it. Citizens have never had a political or ideological agenda of amplification on most public issues. It has only grown thanks to the language division's wave surfing about some underground discomfort that has gone to make it big. At the length of his twelve years of experience he justified his presence in the political landscape to give you a view of a problem, according to you, but not to solve it, nor to seek a solution, but to live there. The idea of social fracture is so weak in the Catalan case, because it does not reflect the social reality that has been seen at many levels. To say that there is a fracture would be to diminish the ties that are solid, built over many decades, of active partnerships around public parks, schools and so many other areas of coexistence that have gained momentum in the neighbourhoods. To invoke the fracture is to draw the own history. I recognize that there has been an unreported story on the great pages of the Catalan Encyclopædia, but it is a vivid story and that it is to the skin of those who experienced the repression of the territory, to the center of Barcelona or from the peripheral barrels, where they went out to defend our freedom of expression also on the 1st of October, we were voters of the yes or voters of the no. Also, of course, this history forms part of the biographic memory of those who did not go to the polls because they did not agree to exceed constitutional limits. We have a cohesive society. And I don't want to use social cohesion here as a mantra to leave the subject closed, as if it were a definitive question. No, no, Social cohesion is day-to-day work, and it's reversible. As I said before, the invocation of the fracture is performative. Precisely because of this, I also said that the concept is dangerous – lords of Ciutadans, it is very dangerous in this area that you work, because daily life and politics are not compartments. There is a merit that is of justice that we must recognize: you are the kings of confrontation, of the generation of division, of provocation. They live comfortable in the conflict and uncomfortable in the Catalan pactist and of the great consensus, which was built among all, without looking where the people had been born or the language they spoke. We were defending a project built between everyone and everyone. We have shown it from the assemblies, or from the Parliament, or from the Generality. Why, if not, do most laws annul the Constitutional Court's later legislature? Who do they think the laws of struggle against energy poverty, the laws of universal access to the health system, the law of effective equality between men and women, the law of banking taxes? How badly have the lies of some political groups, of some entities and of the support of certain means of communication and economic conglomerates been done. It is logical that they do so, defend their economic interests, the persistence of a system in favour of the elites, in favour of IBEX 35. But it tastes hard, so that they do not defend the interests of most Catalans, they vote for what they vote and think what they think, although they say so. And, yes, we might agree that there are certain dangers that can lead us to a social fracture, but we differ so much, from you, in the analysis! And we do it with a lot of taste and a lot of pride. Let's look at the possible causes that can put social cohesion at risk, if we are very clear where we want the focus and make every effort. If they find us, they'll be the next headlines. Cause 1. The social fracture that can occur in Catalonia is caused by the poor and social exclusion, and from the government, concretely, from the advice of Work, Afers Socials and Families, we have been working for some time to avoid it. Therefore, in a context where we still suffer the consequences of crises, we, among all, created a right. That's the Catalans! All of it. It does things. Yes, in a context where we don't stop seeing the removal of rights around us, we believe it – the guaranteed income of citizenship – from the hands of social entities and accompanying civil society. But we must remember that Constable Dolors Bassa, who has been unfairly engaged today, has taken this turn and is to be taken as an object of her mandate. For this reason, today we have a new right in Catalonia; a right that goes forward to find solutions to the people's daily needs and concerns; a right that goes forward to lay the foundations to predict and attack from origin the causes that can lead to a social fracture. According to the headline – this always pleases you: generate headlines. Cause 2. You know what the social fracture is in Catalonia, but unfortunately we're not an exception, but it's a global fracture? The one between men and women. That's why our commitment to work on this line, fighting pay and increasing measures against male violence, for example. That is why the Councillors Jordan, Vergés and Capella made their first official visits with the aim of viewing the women. That's why a joint government. This is one of the real challenges we have as a society, and it's going to be a good job for all of us. Cause 3, another headline: equal opportunities as a powerful tool to fight social fractures. We must see that the new citizenry feels participative, questioned for the society of which they have decided to be part. That is why there is a firm commitment to make a national pact for interculturality. Because if we can't achieve this interculturality, then we will have a real problem of cohesion, not because the schools are spoken Catalan. You have invented a magical relationship around linguistic immersion, when everyone knows that, thanks to linguistic immersion, today in Chakir is a counselor, Najat is a deputy and Jenn writes books in catalá; they lock everyone up, summarizing, looking for what unites them, building in favor of diversity. We don't make the difference an offensive weapon, but it's cohesive. That's why we're so different from you. One day, part of Ciutadans' voters will agree that voting for you is voting against their own interests. Because one day they see that Ciutadans has very high and low class voters, but his program is only for the first. One day they saw, for example, that the linguistic immersion system was created in humble barrels of Spanish speaking to build a society with equal opportunities; it was created to favor that people who did not know català learn and thus better their skills; it was done to build together. There was never any conflict around the language or the inclusive model of the Catalan school until you instrumentalized it and made it your dividing tool, when there had always been a cohesive tool here. As an example, a conversation I had the other day with a worker from this Parliament who takes care of us all and makes us enjoy ourselves. Every day we greet each other with a smile; I have a hi with a gypsy accent of which I can't hang up; she has a hi with Andalusian rallies. But join us in the smile of each morning, where we start a conversation where the different languages turned. The other day, she started in chatella and I in català, until we finished the conversation, she in català and I in chatella. They hurt, very bad, this picture. They don't steal it, they recognize it; they don't like it, they don't steal it. But, despite the weight, this is the real picture of Catalonia. Catalan society, whether or not it is common or not, is of open, welcoming, integrator, pactist, and is never built against, but always in favor of everyone and everyone. Sound with sound. Obviously, never better than the others for the simple fact of being; nor worse. But we never want to go against anyone, and even less against those we consider as Catalans than ourselves. Yes, we see that there are speeches that try to make all the contrary, try to make good Aznar's theses, and we can't afford it without the means. Stop lying. Stop attacking. Stop destroying it. Stop sharing. There are many parliamentary groups that have done so much before that would reinforce all these descriptive verbs. Give them a moment and think: they are always angry, they always speak in denial. While some expose a project and try to build, you destroy. But, of course, that's why we need to have a project like this. And the most important problem is that they don't have a concrete plan, they don't have a proposal, beyond dividing, and that's why they can't build. He's a big fan of conflict scenes, he gets angry generating hate and division, but if we thank a little, the real problem is that they don't have anything to offer. Tapen, with his Spanish nationalism and his kindness against a political movement such as independence, his lack of ideology and project. It's moving depending on the queries, they don't have a concrete idea. And they don't care about Catalonia or the Catalans, because their objective, we speak clearly, is Moncloa; in no case, the Generality. Their god are the votes and the defense of the status quo, and that doesn't matter changing, as often as possible, of speeches, coherence will already defend others. One day they make statements full of testosterone, and then, if one of these says they're losing women's votes, they say they're feminists. And no shame falling on them. It's worth it. [[Greetings.]] They work on the occasion of the survey, they have no idea or concrete ideology about most of the themes. They're running the headlines, the scripts. Like the other day at Parliament's departure, a guide that should already be written to the gods in the morning: gathered to work in Parliament late in the morning. It's all normal here. By chance – by chance, huh? – it widens until later than usual, coinciding – look for on – in the schedule with the manifestation of the claim of '1 October. Ah! That's right, who first comes out at the door is the head of the press, who then comes in to warn us at what point it's better to get out, once he's told all the media that they're surrounded by hostile atmosphere. Postdata: The script written to the gods in the morning also said: "Get out with the face of wonder. Show time, that's what they like, that's what doesn't build a country. Cause 4. And do you know what kind of social cohesion we also have? A generational repte. Each time we live more years and with more diversity of chronifications, therefore, there is a firm commitment to work in the confluence of social and health services, so as to ensure the best service for the great people, as well as the Government is also committed to making proximate policies with the great people that allow, among other things, to wrap up in their own barrels, to wrap up with quality of life, to wrap up interconnectedly with the plurality of services and the life that our barrels and cities generate. We want to be prepared because all these parameters are the ones that concern us. Cause 5. And you know what else doesn't help social cohesion? The disproportionate proportional charges of '1 October, which cause the loss of confidence in the security forces of the State, which in principle you should respect. Because this violence – we would get you to Mrs. Arrimadas; in your case, Mr. Carrizosa – we haven't heard you denounce her yet. Because, yeah, seeing a national cop jump four steps over a city is free rape. Because, yeah, seeing how it's loaded to the top of the head at fucking times is free and disproportionate violence. I hope to hear you say that this rape also convicts her. Simply, to want to vote, to want to express, in a peaceful and democratic way, an opinion. I'd follow. But to finish, let me end with a sporty simile, which is still the one that helps me most to synthesize ideas. They say that if in a game there are fifty missing, they will give you; if in a game they will give you; if in a game, they will give you. So there's someone who's playing dumb game to get out in the clear. Do you know, though, who chooses to play fifty faults? So, the one who's talented can't make his flag. For me, this would be the definition of Ciutadans with reference to his promotion of social coexistence, which helps to make the fifty gaps and will complain to the arbitrator every time they are appointed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.149.0	Thank you, Mrs. Caula. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.150.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Members, President, Government, Parliament staff and citizens accompanying us today, from the Junta Group for Catalonia, we are radically opposed to normalizing the exceptional situation in which we are living, with the legitimate government in prison and another part in exile. We are opposed to seeing that the repression of independence has not existed and does not exist. This fact seriously harms the democratic freedoms and guarantees of the state of law, in which we thought we were living. There was no democratic normality in Catalonia. Unfortunately, you could cite many cases, many examples of this repression and of the people who have suffered it. Today, however, I will only recall a special case, that of the Tamara Carrasco. As you all know, it's a young confined, confined to its people of unjust residence, I repeat, unjustly. Do you know why? For taking part in a demonstration. A democracy has the right to guarantee the rights of citizens. There is one of the fundamentals: the right to demonstration and freedom of expression. Tamara, all of our support, and we want it free, home and out of the house, where you want it. The example of Tamara illustrates the paradox of today's debate, and today we are witnessing the monographic debate proposed for the Ciutadans Group, with a pompous title: "priority of the social agenda and recovery of coexistence. And I thought the monograms were that, monograms. But you don't see it. It seems that the Ciutadans Group is given as much naps as cols, and raises a debate with us the first part of which – "priority of the social agenda – would already donate for a single debate. The social agenda is certainly a priority for everyone, and it is for the majority of this House, but Ciutadans does not really want to discuss the social needs of this country and, consequently, the political actions that we should take. This is not its purpose, as reflected in the second part of the title: "recovery of coexistence. What kind of cohabitation are they talking about? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. And that doesn't mean holding Parliament closed, not deceiving its voters. Commissioning, debate of ponies and gatherings is also work. All folded, it didn't feel, if it isn't that they refer to another kind of coexistence, that is the country of Matrix that they have installed in the head. If you lenght the cutters, the weavers, the stairwells, and do not add to the squamous brawls that are dressed as the Ku Klux Klan, they would not have any argument to raise this debate. [[Greetings.]] If you recognize that the Catalan society is mature and democratic, and that it is willing to defend the democratic rights and freedoms of everyone in a civic, peaceful way, in order to resolve a political conflict for political and non-repressive lives, then you would not want to worry about anything else. But in this Parliament, as in all the parliaments of the world, it is possible to debate and talk about what it is, because, in democracy, the debates are free and enriching, and it is necessary to be able to vote without being conditioned by threats. Presenting grievances, coercing parliamentary groups, or attempting to suspend the rights of elected deputies through the courts is, quite simply, a distortion of democracy. It is, in short, an attempt to violate electoral results. The Parliament of Catalonia will be raised, and its debates, motions and laws will also be raised. But, well, let's focus on the first part of the debate proposal. If we focus on the priority of the social agenda, as has already been said by the very honorable President Torra, the Catalonian government plan obviously envisages a follow-up of social measures of great scale. I will give you some examples, which must take into account that they have taken place in a given period, and also take into account the complex starting situation. At this time, since the inauguration of the new Government, the Government has approved four bills of law, including the Law on Contracts for the Service of Persons, or the Law on the Creation of the Health Agency of Catalonia, two decrees of law, nine decrees on the band of internal structures, among which there is no clear social orientation, such as the income guarantee of citizenship, the register of subsidies, the National Council of Lesbians, Gais, Bisexuals, Transgenders and Intersexuals. Seven new secondary schools have been set up; eight hundred new teachers have been incorporated; the ActiveFP innovation programme has been set up; EUR 14_million has been committed for two courses against school absenteeism; better jobs have been approved in forty-four schools and institutes. In the field of salvation, the mobile application 061 was created. To Territories and Sustainability have allocated 250_million euros to the construction and purchase of housing of social loguer; the Incasòl will allocate 30_million euros to acquire floors in the public park of loguer; twenty-six urban expeditions have approved the processing of which had been paralyzed for the application of Article 155. In the field of culture, the arts and language – yes, culture, the arts and language –, which are also cohesive, which are also a tool of social cohesion and coexistence, have been given aid for the promotion of the audiovisual of 2018, a deal has been signed with twenty-four entities for ethnological research, among other things. In the field of justice, it took 7 million for the inn to march fourteen new people to all of Catalonia. To Treball and Afers Socials have realized 251 expedients that have been put in place for the application of article 155– another time–; has approved the Pla del poble gitano 2020– yes, that poble gitano to which the candidate, Mr Manuel Valls, to which you give support, has wanted to foragittarius from France –; they have been allocated 10_million_i_mig additional to attend the massive arrival of young migrants not accompanied. In the camp of the industry there is the third call of the program Coneixement Industry, call of twenty-i-seven positions of teaching staff and researcher in the marc of the Pla Serra Húnter, or has been made the reservation of 15_million euros to contracts in special centers of work and enterprises of social insertion. The Civil and Political Rights Office has also been created. Or, lastly, the Annual Development Cooperation Plan for 2018 has been approved, with more than 2,800,000_euros for cooperation projects. They may like them more or less, they may agree more or less, with these measures, but they are planted and we want to execute them. And I've only told them a few social measures between the totality with which the Government of Catalonia is working. But with you not talking or talking about anything, because, as I said, you don't want to argue. This issue – let's go back to the second part, to the claim that we need to regain coexistence – as I have already advanced before, this part of the debate is a fallacy, because living together in Catalonia has never been broken, it has never been lost, even though you have come to understand a distorted idea of reality. I say it is a fallacy, because the conclusion of a study carried out for the Català Internacional de la Pau Institute, the ICPI, a study carried out only two months ago, denies that in Catalonia people consider that there are problems of coexistence. 85 percent of the respondents consider living together in Catalonia to be good or very good, and score at 7.8 per cent for living together and 7.2 per cent for feeling secure. You should be glad of this data, you should spread it, in accounts of spreading hatred against Catalans among Spanish citizens. We want your voters to know, because they're also our fellow citizens, and the government rules for all of them. I firmly say that there is no social fracture in Catalonia, nor is there any problem with living together. What we are living, in any case, is a political problem, a political conflict that you and other parties in this chamber have sought to bring to justice. Having refused to engage in dialogue, which is what they have been doing for years, has resolved with an unacceptable political and social repression. In a democratic society, this is unacceptable. And they blame us when, in fact, it's you who don't want to talk and negotiate. Discrepancies that separate us must be resolved in a dialogue. For all these differences to be very profound, for all the sharpness of the conflict, politics has an obligation to try to resolve peacefully the differences of opinion. You turn the unity of your country into a sacred one, in which, in reality, it is a political conviction. Spanish hasn't been Spanish for three thousand years. And when that sacred is by reason, then it's when politics fails. So that they assume that there is no politics without conflict they will not understand the nature of the controversies that generate it. The diversity of opinions, the political discrepancy and even the whole political conflict do not break through. On the contrary, strengthen plurality and respect it. And it is that you are obsessed with the Catalan language, turning multilingualism into a permanent conflict, when in reality multilingualism is the solution to all conflicts of coexistence in the world, as proposed, from years ago, UNESCO. Certainly, Mr. Carrizosa, when he calls the winner of Quebec, he has been forgotten to say that, precisely, in his election program they incorporate the obligation to know French to work and live in Quebec. It is not to defend a minority language or to claim the right to self-determination, which is a right proposed for first-time liberals who advocate that individuals are collectively realized without the need to dissolve. It is, if any, a group of police that sings it "for them, when they take the trip to Catalonia". If we start this way, it's logical that after you stomp to the color you want citizens who are willing to put a vote in a ballot box. It is, let us make it clear, that a head of state, King of Spain, justifies police repression against a part of his subjects, as if we are still in the time of the Croats. All this is an attempt to live together. The altera, the violent, represses it and converts political conflicts into a mass of bile. The citizenry gives them a lesson of democracy in the question I have already discussed. More than 80_percent of Catalans defend the resolution of conflicts by mediating and not with the army. We are a peaceful and democratic society, as the demonstrations of "No to the war in 2003 have already made clear. Barcelona has become the capital of the world pau. And attitudes don't change so quickly. We don't give it back. Do you know who's hurting the violence? That you go out every day to this cliff to hold us from supremacists and other barbarities, while they attend demonstrations together with the Vox faixists, and with arm is the photograph of the tripartite 155. Or when Mr.Alejandro Fernández says, as he just said: "Our ideas are better and stronger. And then he says we're the supremacists. [[Rialles.]] It is the tripartite of the 155, when it applauds the repression and threatens, one day again, with a new intervention of autonomy. This time, with more destructive force, to assimilate us and remove the self-government from the map. The record that they are deputies of a self-government institution, you should defend it, too. [[Greetings.]] If you want to discuss in truth the future of the citizens of Catalonia, first place, respect the truth. Even though we're at the time of the fake news, they're making an effort. Respect democratic methods to resolve conflicts. We're here to do it. We are very sure of our strength, of the strength of the people and of the democratic foundation of our claim. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.151.0	Thank you very much. The session is suspended until four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.152.0	MPs, MPs, ask them to vaginate their seats, please. Start... [[Pause.]] Thank you, let's go. [[General debate on the priority of the social agenda and the recovery of coexistence (continuation)]] [[255-00001/12]] He will then have the word to reply to the parliamentary groups by Mr Pere Aragonès, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History. In accordance with Rule 154.4 of the Rules of Procedure, we are now opening a new round of interventions by parliamentary groups and sub-groups. Before, however, the deputy president of the government has the word ; when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.153.0	Very late, ladies and gentlemen, President of Parliament. President Torra, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, I take the floor to reply to the interventions of the parliamentary groups in this debate called for by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group on the social agenda and coexistence. In which the first finding we have to make is that the order and amount of time spent on these two concepts has been totally inverse to what was proposed. That's to say, he's talked a lot about what you're following... there's a social fracture, and very little – very little – about the social agenda. We'll talk about it. President Quim Torra didn't speak this morning, and I will speak about it myself in this reply, on behalf of the Government. Let me start with some general principles of government action, which I would like to highlight. To emphasize, as the President also did this morning, in the first place: coexistence in this country is sacred. Social cohesion, equal opportunities, rights and freedoms for everyone are one of the divisions of this government, of this majority of Parliament, and I am told that there is much more to it, that it is shared by the institutions and the citizens of this country. Living together is sacred. Living together, social cohesion are about political projects. And our political project... I mean, it's precisely to strengthen this social cohesion, to strengthen the rights and freedoms for everyone, to set up our political project of independence, to constitute Catalonia in an independent state. In the second place, we have to situate politics: Parliaments and the city debate, and outside the courts. While political debate is maintained in special proceedings, a general case brought by the Supreme Court in cooperation with Instruction Court No. 13, and while criminal proceedings are imposed – the Criminal Code is imposed – to silence political dissent, we cannot move forward in the political debate. The doctrine of the Enemy Criminal Code applies to independence. The proceedings are changed, the definition of crimes is changed, the evidence appears and disappears, the outages are also constantly changed to the default court for the law. Therefore, enough to apply the Enemy Criminal Code to independence. We all know that the rebellion of our fellow Members, our fellow Members of the Government, is non-existent. We all know this, so much so that you understand the termed instruction for the Supreme Court to define it that way. European jurisdictions know this, where the coto test has been passed. There was no rebellion. They know it and repeat it to the deputies who participated in the writing of the article of rebellion in the current Criminal Code, that there is no such rebellion. Misappropriation has been denied by the Minister of Hysenda of the moment, repeatedly; and now we have known, these past few days, that one of the most important parts of this misappropriation, therefore, is denied even for the company that, supposedly, had the money back. Therefore, it is necessary to place politics outside the courts. As long as that does not happen, this country will not be in a normal situation to face the political debates of the future. Third place, we rule for everyone. Our vocation is government across the country. And it's so, we want all the tools to make it possible, all the resources. And there are some examples, which today have been put on the table, of day-to-day questions that affect citizenship and which have been asked to the Government – as it should be – how it works, but which cannot be ruled out by the lack of resources, the lack of regulatory capacity and the lack of economic resources to do so. I give some examples: it has been said that it is necessary to attack job insecurity. We have a stake around '11_per_cent, but despite this, this reduction in the stake was not accompanied by an increase in wages, and therefore the fact that every time there are more workers than, despite working, despite working, is in a poor situation, we are concerned and want to change it. But we don't have the skills in labor; we don't have the skills to change this labor reform that, Ciutadans, defense. And, in fact, defend so much, that they still want to pre-characterize more, with the one contract, our labor market. We want more resources for the inspection. Another example: we want to make a good public intervention in the market of housing. There are initiates driven by Councilman Calvet on this line. We want to face the bottle of the logger, we have repeatedly pushed the payment date from this Parliament, but we do not have the normative tools to do it. And we had to work together with the Catalan Institute of Finance, to be able to put in finance, because the assumption on the part of the State was absolutely insufficient. Third example: we want a good policy of dependence. Today, on the part of various groups: how is the application of the Law of Dependence, according to these groups..., not one of the priorities of the Government? So let's say the things as they are: the law establishes equal financing, 50_per_cent the Generality, 50_per_cent the State. Today, the Government of Catalonia is taking on 80_percent of the financing of dependency services. It is more, today, in the application of the Law of Dependence, the co-sponsorship that users make in the conjunction of the system supposes more money than the state. Therefore, three examples: housing, job insecurity, dependency, which show that we need all the tools to be able to intervene and rule for everyone. And these should be the elements that should focus this debate, because today, the risks to social cohesion, to coexistence in our country, is not a social fracture that does not exist for political or ideological reasons. Today the risks on our country are that this economic recovery that from a global point of view, added to Catalonia, is powerful, we are not able to redistribute it in our society, as we would like. Today, this economic recovery is not up to everyone and, therefore, it is the inequalities, it is the social fracture because of the lack of equality of opportunities that can put social cohesion in jeopardy in our country. Not if someone holds a political symbol or someone intends to remove it; this is not what can endanger the social cohesion of this country. Therefore, we must ask ourselves: how do we hold this debate today? Why is this debate produced? So it's clear, the group that pushed him, Ciutadans, the moment he sees that from June, his appreciation for these starts to go down, he knows that he has to go to the tension strategy, to regain political prominence again. And it coincides exactly in time, the moment when the deep links, which have been present in this chamber and which have been present in so many places in our country, that we carry many deep ties and symbols to denounce the situation of political prisoners, that for many months they have not caused much debate, I need some political forces, but not a debate, there has been no tension in the street..., this is orchestrated, from the moment that these indicate that Ciutadan stops being at the head of the voting projections at the level of the State. When you lose the stakes, press the street. And I ask them: is this the price, to strain the street? Four more votes to the rest of the state? You're a game that works very well for these – I suppose you have a lot of resources to devote to it – is the price to break the cohabitation in Catalonia? Trying to break her? Do it consciously? Therefore, I think that this should be reflected on you – a reflection –: if the price of having four more votes..., I also wish you well in the future in this sense, because when you enter to compete in these areas, you have just come out of someone who is still more to the extreme than you. Therefore, vagina making this tension speech, which Vox will still read the votes. So, I ask you, is this the price? Reflection. Therefore, we, convinced that those who have tried to break up living together in Catalonia are the actions of the Spanish State against the rights and freedoms; the fact that there are political prisoners and leaders in exile, with this attitude of judicial persecution, and the police violence of October 1. They are these powers of the State, the most responsible for the tension that has occurred in the streets. We must also bear in mind that the application of Article 155, the economic control of Catalan finances and all that came with it, meant a difficult impact on the social services in Catalonia, which are precisely the ones that guarantee social cohesion and coexistence in our country. What Attacks Social Cohesion? Is the fact that when this Parliament approves laws to move forward in the social sphere systematically before the Constitutional Court? When are the measures that we approve here by a large majority or by unanimity interrupted by a constitutional court clearly eroded from the party that has only four deputies in this chamber? So that's what we should also think about. That said, and through this introduction, I am going to answer or comment on some of the interventions that the different parliamentary groups made this morning. Mr Carlos Carrizosa, from Ciutadans, Mr Carrizosa, said, "We need to talk to find solutions. And I agree, but we need to speak freely to find solutions. You've made a defense of the electorate you represent, the maximum respect, you'd just miss. The maximum respects the electorate and the maximum respects that you can defend your ideas in this Parliament. The problem, and it will agree with me, is that we have leaders from all over the country who are very significant, that it is the political majority and the parliamentary majority in this Parliament, that they cannot speak with the same freedom, that they are engaged or in exile. And you know perfectly well that this situation of imprisonment and exile hinders a dialogue, makes it difficult to talk about things with normality. You also made reference – and you did, insistently – to Councilman Bargalló, with this speech that the Catalan school is getting better, that the Catalan school is an instrument to introduce politics to the classrooms and manipulate the young students of this country, which shows a lack of confidence in the students of this country, who have great critical experience. While Mr. Carrizosa ugly this intervention, therefore, is known a report of the Jaume Bofill Foundation. The Jaume Bofill Foundation that, as you know, has been critical of some of the educational policies that have brought to an end the different governments of the Generality and what did it say, while you were talking, this report that is public? So 70 percent of families and teachers believe that political and social controversy must be addressed at school. That 29.3_percent of the teachers say that they would like to work educationally on social and political news in the classroom, but that they will not, because they don't know how to interpret it. Therefore, you, who seem to be supporters of censorship, in which our classrooms are, should look at this report. If I fly, then I'll send it back. You have also explained – and, therefore, made public – the situation that has occurred, haven't you? , when you say: "We cannot walk freely through the streets, already the case of Canet, the case of Alla. Look, obviously, we will always defend the right to walk with all the tranquility of the world, you, Mrs. Arrimadas, all your deputies, anywhere in Catalonia. Always, always defend it. But you don't equip me with what it is to walk quietly through a locality of my region, along with the people who fifteen days before participated in attacks on the plaza of that region. To go with him and take pictures – and they are published and, if you want, I will show you, on behalf of Inés Arrimadas – with some of the participants of that attack, who carries a sign that humiliates Oriol Junqueras, the vice president of the Government. That gentleman himself, with whom Inés Arrimadas is ugly photos to Canet, was wearing a sign that same day, right? With a drawing, therefore, clearly offending a person who is in prison and who cannot defend. You go to Alla where, of course, you don't have a single governor, arrive the rooms before you– already looks like the Civil Guard when it does different performances in Catalonia, which first arrive the rooms and then up the Civil Guard –, you are present there, to go through groceries. Therefore, it is this attitude of going to strain the streets. That week was a horrible week, for you, because they started before Alella, where they don't have a single ruler, I repeat, to break deep ties; then, citizenship – because it's the natural expression of the people who decided to put them down – they put them back down again, once they left the rooms; in fact, some people got it all. And then that same week, in the name of this cohabitation, they call a demonstration not far from here, which ends with a camera of Telemadrid attacked because they thought it was TV3. And the great justification is: "No, it's not TV3. No, no, no..., it's like..., and you should have come out clearly to expel the people who participate in their demonstrations that have these aggressive attitudes. I should have done it, and they didn't. [[Greetings.]] Then the apology is not worth it, Mr. Carrizosa – it is not worth it. The use of communication media to manage this... isn't it? , to promote this social tension is like the use of communication media and the interested leaks that there is of judicial proceedings, with the defencelessness that causes for many of us, that we know that we are being investigated by the Civil Guard because we read it in a press release. Is this separation of powers? Is that trusting the right state? A state of law can allow people who are supposed to be involved in a procedure, who have not been notified – and I'm talking about my personal example, which is much less, a Civil Guard investigation – do I need to know about communication media? Where's the defense right? Where's the presumption of innocence? Presumption of innocence that you, in your interventions today, refer to deputies of this chamber who are investigated, presumably, because they have not, on the part of the High Court of Justice, refused to reveal secrets, you already gave them for convictions. The principle of the presumption of innocence, fundamental in a state of right, you seem that this does not matter to them very much either. You said, Mr Carrizosa, that there are people in Catalonia who feel strongly about their political position, and that this causes them discomfort. And I can hear it and add to you to report, to report all the people who can feel endorsed for their political position. But if I denounce, if we denounce, this government, that someone can feel politically appointed, we must denounce still with much more force that there may be people who are entrepreneurs and who have been forced into exile for political questions. You've also gone back to doing... to assign the teachers of our school to indoctrinators. We... [[Funnel veils]] Yes, yes, because when you talk about the school, when you say that the school is being adopted, when you say that there are different debates in the classroom, who do you think made these debates in the classroom? Did Councilman Bargalló walk through the schools and intervene in the classrooms? No, no, The classrooms, as they have always been, as they are in all schools, from here and from the world... who are in the classrooms are the teachers, they are the teachers, they are the teachers. Therefore, trust in the masters of this country. We've got masters out of these countries! We are getting out of the effort made by the school in this country, which has always maintained social cohesion! [[Greetings.]] You have, in..., an example, an example more of this confusion that you sometimes have between what is the normality of the country and what you say in politics. Today, a Member of your group at the control session to the Government, says: "The classrooms are politicizing themselves. And he taught a report that says: "They are politicizing because in this report it is said that the català must be the language of use in school. Is using Catalan politics? That is, the existence of Catalan and the use of Catalan language is politicization. So what's normal, what should be normal is not to use it. Therefore, I believe that you really have a problem; a problem that has been defined..., or a feature – not a problem, a feature – that has been further defined in academic literature. Its is that banal nationalism, the nationalism that is already taken for granted, the one that believes that the Spanish flag, automatically, to be the official flag, is that which everyone feels identified; that the official birth, the one that is present in the laws, the one that is proclaimed in the article according to the Constitution, that to do so, we all have to assume it as our own, against the same political pluralism that has recognized it in the Spanish Constitution. He did not say other things, he said: "They are not political prisoners. So, listen, I'm reviewing the interlocutors of jutge Llarena when he denies the prisoners' freedom petitions, which there are political motives. He talks about the political programme of these Members here; he talks about the political situation in Catalonia, but they are not political prisoners – they are not political prisoners. In fact, no matter how he admits that he's got political prisoners, he's never recognized that there's political prisoners. So it's normal for you to say that there are no political prisoners. But check the contacts and you'll see they're full of political motivations. That he did not stay in preventive detention for his actions, but for the risk arising from the political situation. If this isn't political, I don't know what you think it is. And then, I think we've seen, far from the last few weeks, in continuous displays of inhumanity to people in prison. We can't get Mrs. Arrimadas out, who defends a political option that we respect, who we can always express, who can always do it, can't get out here and talk about the prison where our companies are like the train. What a banalization! What a banalization of the patience that many families and many people have, friends and friends of ours, and political representatives [[applause]] That we voted, to the jail. What a banalization! And, after saying all this, and denouncing corruption – and here in addition to you, Mr. Carrizosa – you have denounced corruption situations and here I guarantee you the government's commitment with zero corruption – zero corruption. We have acted very clearly, and we will always act, because, if there is a case of corruption, the person remains away, and we will always do so. And this government is more applied than ever to working for transparency, for the better of public procurement, always, always, always to eliminate any traces of corruption. And he defended the dialog. Perfect, but he's just been saying it. I'll tell you what the President of the Generality has said: let's talk. Come, you and Mrs. Arrimadas, come to Palau, we'll get the president and me and the members of the government, who will also accompany us, and come to talk, prove they want to talk, come to talk. Because you know as well as I do that you're not going to talk when there's room in front of you, because when there's room in the room, you're not going to show this willingness to talk. You have come, officially, on the agenda, so I am not revealing the king, to the Department of Economy to speak, because there were no rooms. They can come to the Palau de la Generalitat. And don't tell me the excuse of the place, because at the entrance of the Department of Economy there is, as it couldn't be otherwise, it's kept what the workers put up, which is an image of Vice President Junqueras with the accountant. So, excuse me, I come to talk, I come to the Palau de la Generalitat. And I'm convinced that the president and I would be happy to spend all the hours they need to talk to you. And then there's an argument, which I have to reject, and the rejection is not just for a political stance, but also for a personal issue. You constantly say: "There are people who treat our voters, or the people we represent, as strangers to their land. So no, no. "And they use the origin, the language we speak, what we think, the plans for the future of us and our families. So I say no. Not that this is a red line for us. Here Catalonia is no stranger – Catalonia is no stranger. And we'll prove it with the facts. We show it with the facts when we want to push a country project, we always facilitate the participation of everyone and at the time of defending rights no one is alienating Catalonia either in health, nor in access to the health system of Catalonia. And that is why we have promoted the universalization of salvation also for people who may legally have a foreign situation but who must have the same rights for us. Certainly, you didn't give it support – you didn't give it support – remember. And we will always reject all those opinions that say that someone has to leave Catalonia for their ideas. They haven't made any reference to you. [[Greetings.]] They haven't referred you to some statements, we reject them. They don't represent us. We totally reject them. No one needs to feel alienated in Catalonia for their ideas because our project is a country project, inclusive and for everyone. We want to build this republic of opportunity for everyone – for everyone. The Swordler MP, from the PSC and Forward Units, made an intervention in which he spoke of the need to hear from each other and of empathy, of this truth that is distributed, therefore, in mouths, right? In very small mouths and that each one has its own, right? This idea of the truth, of that broken Mirall that Mercè Rodoreda wrote so well, right? Okay. I'll match it. But I think, because we can hear it all, we need to be on equal terms. And when the ministers say that pre-trial detention should not have occurred, when they say that it did not..., and the same president of the state government says that it should not have acted criminally as it has done... These words must be translated into facts – they must be translated into facts – and while it is not translated into facts we believe that when you say that you are not honest at all, you are not honest at all, and we want you to be honest at all and honest at all in order to be able to speak freely with you. And we are not without the citizens of Catalonia who do not want independence. We work for all the citizens of Catalonia – for all of us. And on the assumptions that we will bring in this Parliament in which there will be a clear bet, such as the last assumptions, of social policies, in the field of teaching, in the field of health, in the field of welfare, at the expense of economic growth policies, we will again demonstrate this. And it has placed the need to talk about social policies, social cohesion, equal opportunities in this country. And we agree – we agree – but we also say that this cannot be dealt with, notwithstanding that there have been austerity policies applied by the People's Party and that the Socialist Party continues to apply, maintaining an inflexible spending rule that will limit the Generality's capacity for resources for the next year, when there is this austerity, limits this ability to speak and agree on social policies. When there is a tax deficit equivalent to 8_percent of our gross domestic product, this limits our resource capacity. And this generates frustration, this fiscal deficit, because the citizenry sees it as in macroeconomic terms, in aggregate terms, our economy works but we do not control enough GDP from the Generality of Catalonia to redistribute it between the citizenry. The Generalitat de Catalunya has a final assumption of public policies, policies of non-finalist spending – that is to say, not the share of the debt, non-financial spending–, equivalent to '11_percent of gross domestic product. Extremature the 25's tea. So you're much more capable of impacting. And this is because there is a transfer of returns between excessive territories, which needs to be corrected. So, either we see this or it won't have any meaning, or we can talk about social policy, but then we can't apply it, which is what happens to us many times in this Parliament. Because what we want is that this country is self-government, that it is government with all its means to be able to face the challenges we have. And he said we put social policies in the service of independence. It's the opposite: we need independence, which is a means to make good social policies. Because we can have regulatory capacity in all those areas where we are not now, we can have the capacity to have resources that our country is currently producing but that we cannot have and we can have a direct view of Europe and the world to defend our society, to defend the interests of our society, our economy, our country. I say, "Let's talk about these other issues. Yeah, but no replacement. We have always said that we are prepared to talk to the Government of the State about all the issues that arise, but that no one wants to move forward on sectoral issues, which are important, on questions of financial relations with the State, following the replacement of the necessary dialogue and negotiation to be produced, which is recognition, from our point of view, from the exercise of the right to self-determination. He was talking about deconflicting. Again, all the ministers who have spoken about this issue have acknowledged that prison is a problem to move forward. So if there's an actual recognizance, make fun of it. It is not consistent to say this and after the state's attorney last week agreed... – not the prosecution, who can give me formal arguments that he does not follow the government's instructions –, the state's attorney, who directly reports to the state's government, last week agreed that the people that ministers say that the fact that they are in prison is a problem. Therefore, we need coherence in this area. Freedom to speak, freedom to dialogue. And he repeated to us: "We cannot intervene in the judiciary. But it is that we come from an intervention that did occur in the judiciary and we disagree that I continue a procedure based on this intervention. What did I remember? What did I remember that Minister Rafael Catalá announced with days of anticipation what would end up deciding in the Supreme Court? As I recall, there was a..., it was orchestrated in the case of the Jordis, that the spokesman of the Spanish Government, Mr. Mendez de Vigo, began to speak of riots and that the Attorney General of the State automatically filed an accusation by siege, creating the march? What did I remember? And there was a direct intervention, and now the state government doesn't have to intervene: "We don't have to intervene because... First, in order not to intervene and to guarantee separation, they should dismantle the previous intervention that has occurred. And this is the courage we ask of the Socialist Party, if you really believe in the separation of powers and if you really believe it. [[Greetings.]] And I think we have a way forward, in this sense; I think we have a way forward if the dialog is honest, if there is a willingness to negotiate. We've always had, always, always, always, the dialog on the table. Even in the most complicated moments of a year ago, in the most tense situations, President Puigdemont and Vice-President Junqueras always put the dialog over the table, always – always – and we will obviously continue to do so, because we know that the solution will not be in the confrontation, the solution will not be in the application of the use of force, the solution will not be in the application of the penal code of the enemy. The solution will be in political negotiation and democratic validation for the citizens of Catalonia. Mrs Segovia, from Catalonia to Comú Pomera, I have to say that we agree with a very good part of her intervention; in part she has also devoted her, in good part, therefore, to opposing Ciutadans, and, obviously, as we do not agree with Ciutadans, therefore, in this aspect we agree with a very good part of her intervention. I am convinced that we have a long way to go to collect papers, that we have agreed that there has been a general policy debate and that we must have it, too, from now on. We've done it and we want to do it. Obviously, I can't accept it, and let's not accept it, the expression of this imaginary republic. I do not accept it – I do not accept it – because the Catalan Republic project is a rather important, rather felt, project that is defended by so many people, defended, and so on, with consequences, so that we all know, not to categorize it as an imaginary republic, that from our point of view would trivialize our political project. Therefore, I cannot agree with you when this expression is needed. For the rest, I think we have a lot of way to go. I agree with you that the main risks to living together, to social cohesion in this country are in the area of major inequalities; that they are not the only ones in Catalonia, that they are produced by the world, the fruit of the whole process of globalisation, of change in working relationships, of change in consumer relations, of transformation of the role of workers, of the processes of robotization, of digitization, of the transformation of our lives, of the demographic change that has occurred. Therefore, they are challenges that we share, and to which we have to respond with more social justice, more predispositive ability and more redistributive ability. We'll have the opportunity with the assumptions. And I think we need to make the effort to be able to work together, to be able to respond to these challenges that you raised, and that there are clear signs in these assumptions. We fully agree that living together is in danger when there is poverty – when there is poverty, it is in danger – when there are denudations, when there are great people who cannot arrive at the end of the month and who have to depend on their family because they do not have tickets, when there are different paths of opportunity to life depending on the income of the parents. All this, obviously, we have to work on it. We won't solve it again and again. We don't have all the tools to do it. But we believe that we have given clear signals, in this sense, in the past, and that we will also give in to these assumptions. Therefore, open up to work. Talk to us. I agree with the Deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Candidature of Popular Unity, that there is no fracture, that we do not understand it. And in the same way that the Member said 'we don't understand it in our environment, in our work environment, in our school companies, we don't understand it in our family, neither do we. We believe that there is a media construction of this report, and that precisely the challenges we have, as it did before, in the field of social cohesion, of growing inequalities, are what can put us at risk. And, obviously, here the CUP and the government will have a good-sharing diagnosis, and some receipts will be different. It's likely, but I think there's room for collaboration: we're getting together a lot. In addition to the forces we support this government, we understand each other's attitudes in the face of the challenges that exist, in concrete policies, and I believe that we also have the opportunity to do so. Obviously, if what we want are concrete results, and I am convinced that in all these areas the CUP wants concrete results of day-to-day transformation, not only words that can't be applied afterwards. And, therefore, the same way that we're doing it together with Sabadell, that we did it together with Badalona, we can do it together here in Parliament too. Mr Vidal Aragonese has made the list of all those who have not voted Ciutadans, and he has made it necessary to delete part of my speech, because I really also wanted to put on the table this contradiction that there is, on the part of a party that goes here to talk about Convivência but that after they are the first to hide the expense floor and that it is not possible to increase; the first to propose a job reform that is still more regressive, with the one contract, and that they have made all the proposals to reduce the generality's entrances and all the proposals at the same time to increase expenses, therefore, to make their proposals unenforceable. And you said: "We have no response from the government in the waiting lists or in the public school. The assumptions that we will present in this chamber tend as a quantitative priority, as it cannot be in any other way, the policies of salvation, the policies of teaching. They will be, they were in the past and they will be now. And, therefore, they will be a priority of the assumptions, obviously accompanied by all the other policies promoting economic activity, culture, better public service. So I think we'll have the opportunity to talk about it here, too. The representative of the People's Party referred to an interview published in El Mundo, it seems to me, this weekend, to this philosopher, Jonathan Haidt, and he spoke: "Systemic conditions for coexistence are already the rule of law and the principle of authority. On the empire of the law, do you think that you can maintain consent to apply a constitutional mark on a territory, when there is a majority of your citizens who reject it systematically? Can't keep – can't keep. I see you don't have the head, so you have to match me. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right! So we vote by reference and we'll see! – we vote in reference and we will see it! In any case, the majority in favour of maintaining the status quo is totally non-existent – it is totally non-existent. In this Parliament there are only 41 Members, out of 135, to maintain the status quo. Even so, the Socialist Party, which participated in 155, believes that this is not holding up, and therefore will need to change it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.154.0	Deputy, you don't have the word right now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.155.0	Do you think that pressing for the application of Article 155, when, even from a point of view, from the viewpoint of the State's attorney, the toughest Aranzadi brigade, has not occurred any of the assumptions, is contributing to coexistence? You believe that proposing the illegalization of the political force at your side, attributing a presumed, totally non-existent connivance of the UPC with violence is... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Can I finish talking? Yeah? Thank you. So, you think that assigning this assumed connivance, imaginary, of the UPC to violence, to appeal to illegality is to promote coexistence? Do you think so? [[Greetings.]] A political force that has more mayors in Catalonia than you. Think 'ho! And I wanted to read the interview, because a reading as interesting as he suggested to us, so it had to be looked at. And I found... An interview made – certainly, acting with the journalist – by Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo, it seems, that is not very pro-independenceist, eh? But in any case, he asks the question: "Is freedom of expression at risk? I read from the original: "Ideas or freedom of expression have not changed, but in practice there is a setback, very serious: it has become usual practice – and attention has now been paid to what you have said during the last months, escorting well – "it has become habitual practice and, worse, legitimate, to silence dissenting opinions with the argument that they are offensive. Like what you say about these deep loops. Thank you for recommending this interview, Mr. Fernández, many thanks. You said: "We will win the debate on the street. I think the debates have to be won in parliaments, obviously. And you have made a proposal that is clearly using the Supreme Court's intervention on the results of 21 December to make a change of government and to drive a motion of censure. So, you..., this vermin gift that you made to Ciutadans – this vermin gift that you made to Ciutadans –, if it's carried out... – that I think they didn't buy it, huh? , because they know that it is a veritable gift, but – if it is brought to terms, that it would not have enough support, but assuming that it is possible to bring to term, it would be to use this intervention of the Supreme Court on the outcome of the 21st of September – some elections called for its party in application of article 155 – to make a change of government, it would be a 155" to the Llarena, surely. So what I'm saying is that this government will continue to work, this government will remain firm, this majority parliament will continue to work, with all possible alliances. And what I'm already telling you now that this change of government, based on the intervention of jutge Llarena will not be produced – it will not be produced. Also, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group and Juntes per Catalunya, the deputies Anna Caula and Aurora Madaula, with whom I agree, we agree the Government, in everything they have been explaining, as it cannot be in any other way. And I'd like to highlight two things: one of the major fractures in this country is not an ideological fracture, it's not a geographic fracture, it's not a social class fracture, it's just a gene fracture. We want to have all the tools because the general rules that we approve in this Parliament can be applied, and that it does not happen with some of the regulations that we have promoted in the past mandates, which could not be completed because the Constitutional Court has intervened. Therefore, we also want, and we are compromised by this government, to reduce this genera fracture and, therefore, that there is equal opportunity for everyone, regardless of the genera you follow. And MP Madaula also referred to the situation of Tamara Carrasco, in this confinement that we have known this dilluns that the National Hearing confirmed. And, from the government, obviously, we want to make it clear that it is a measure that we do not share, that we denounce and that we consider it restrictive of rights and freedoms, because it is from having participated in a demonstration, without evidence, for a non-competent court, and making a restrictive measure of freedom of these characteristics we believe to be contrary to the principles of the state of law. This government, therefore, is committed to advancing to equal opportunities, to economic progress and to the rights and freedoms of its citizens, and also, obviously, to the rights and collective freedoms of the right to self-determination. But we're also in the day-to-day and week-to-day of this government, side by side with all the other work we're doing, we're working for that. In the next few weeks, we will be able to set up family courts to deal with the difficult situations that many families are experiencing in our country, and to improve the judicial resolution when, sometimes, then, this case has to come to an end, right? the judicial resolution of family disputes in the area of civil law. And, therefore, we will be put into operation to judge Terrassa, the Vendrell and the Hospital of Llobregat, and the year he sees two in Sabadell. It's already started, and it's set in motion..., and Constable Capella was in Tarragona the other day to compromise 'in this sense, to start the open center project of Tarragona. We are continuing to drive all the economic sectors of our country. And I would like to quote an economic sector that throughout the economic crisis has made a positive contribution to GDP, and that today, too, in the face of protectionist issues and elements that are close to its activity, is in difficulty, which is the agricultural sector. Councillor Jordà will push forward the strategic Pla of the forestry sector, which will be approved in September; the Pla of biodiversity cultivated in November; the Pla of bioeconomy in Catalonia, in September; all these elements that are in our Pla of government. But we also have to face the challenges we face, and the legal structures, the administrative structures that we have had so far have not been sufficient. Today, during all the interventions that have taken place, we have heard very little about an aspect, of a phenomenon that is obviously on the table when we talk about social cohesion, that are the unaccompanied minors, in which there has been an effort by the entities of our country, the Government, with the Department of Labour and Social Affairs and DGAIA in the lead. And that's why a law decree will be pushed, to give a country response in the gathering and integration of children and adolescents migrated without family referents. The policies of our country have opened up in a general view, too, as Congresswoman Caula had previously said. For example, dealing with problems up to now invisibly and that only women suffer, such as endometriosis, with a specific course of action. We have also been compromised, as I have said repeatedly, by bringing universal access to salvation to everyone, and we have succeeded in working, and the Vergés Councillor has done, and there has also participated, in these talks, the Artadi Councillor, for the withdrawal of the appeal lodged with the CT against the Law of Universal Access to Salvation. The new Joan XXIII of Tarragona has a commitment of 48.5_million from the Government for the first phase of its construction. In the last weeks we have inaugurated the new ICU of the Hospital of the Vall d'Hebron; it has been put into operation; the largest of the Spanish State, which is carried as an intelligent ICU, with a value of 20_million euros. The first stone of the new CAP of Santa Eulàlia of the Hospital of Llobregat, one of the most congested areas of housing in our country and with the most demand, is a clear bet to place the policies of salvation also on the line of reducing the inequalities existing in our country. The President of the Generality was able to present the new primary care centre to the Mine, with this investment of 9_million euros. In the field of teaching, today, there are more teachers than ever in the service of the school of this country – more teachers than ever. A contribution from the Generality to zero-three will be recovered from the assumptions, despite the fact that the State continues to eliminate resources to zero-sis education; from three to six, we have been putting money from the Generality; from zero to three, there has been an effort of the joints. So we're still betting on it. We have recovered the external presence, we will boost Pla Europe, we will renew the Memorandum of Understanding with UNESCO and the rules that the Law of Transparency deploys. We have worked and will continue to work to reverse the effects of 155 on the Squad Coast and the compromise because the Squad Coast and the Bomber Coast can continue their work. And we will continue to compromise, as was Councillor Buch, with the campaigns and with all the actions derived..., not just propaganda campaigns, but the campaigns and the effective action on the territory of the Catalan Transit Service to reduce traffic accidents, which, unfortunately, this year have gone up. It will boost, as already announced, with the leadership of Constellera Artadi, the National Pla against male violence, led by the Department of Presidency and which will be shared by many other departments of the Government, because it is a cross-cutting policy. We will continue to work to recover resources for housing with social protection in our country. Two-hundred_Fifty-million euros that was working councillor Calvet, that we manage to derive from the Catalan Institute of Finance to finance, for the first time after many years, of promotion of the social habitat; accompanied by the Law of Territories, that we will present to the length of the own meso, that will be this code of the territory, to Catalonia, and that will serve to think again with a long look, with ample focus on how we order the territory to our country. It will be the first complete law in the urban area, with general vision, after the escalate of the real estate cylinder. We need to rethink and we are doing this with the leadership of Councillor Calvet, to Territories and Sustainability. We will continue to compromise with the internationalization of the Catalan economy, remembering exports a year ago. The absolute value of our exports continues to grow and we will continue to compromise with innovation, through the good work of Constellera Chacón, to the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge. We have once again placed culture at the forefront of government action, of the whole culture of the country. We don't bother with the country's cultural expression, we don't bother with it and we're all – all – and, a few weeks ago, we had a failed intent here. [[the Vice-President of the]] I'd say so, trying to make it look like it's not like that, right? And try, therefore, by good show, to give lessons about El Quixot to one of the major experts of El Quixot de Catalunya. And this vision that our culture is all that is produced in Catalonia is what Constellera Borrás is doing to the Department of Culture. And we have advanced, as Councillor Puignero announced today, in the field of public service with agreement. With agreements that obviously have an economic impact, that we need to be able to fit in with our own assumptions, that we will. And they have to go on with more agreements and, here, we're all compromised. We'll make assumptions. We will make assumptions and bring them to this Parliament so that they can be approved. Therefore, we have a compromised government, compromised with social policies and equal opportunities. We believe that before the interventions... we must rise up and defeat the interventions from outside the chamber in this chamber; that, before the threats, we must be stronger, and the government is compromised that this is the case. It is the best way to contribute to the coexistence and social cohesion of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.156.0	Thank you, Vice President. And now, as I said, it's a turn of phrase on the part of parliamentary groups. A five-minute turn, and I will be strict with the compliment of these five-minutes per parliamentary group, and two-and-a-half, obviously, per parliamentary subgroup. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.157.0	Mr President, should it not be time proportional to the intervention made by the Government, which was fifty-two minutes? Therefore, we would be responsible for each of the seven groups, for at least seven_minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.158.0	It's regulated like this. It's been through the Spokesman's Board, it's just like we agreed, and so it's just like we're gonna do. In any case, I'll get back to you to start this turn. Mr. Carrizosa, when you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.159.0	Thank you, Mr. President. We do not have so much time to respond to all the speakers who have referred to us and, in addition, to the reply of the Government. There are some comments that have been repeated both from the Republican Left and from other speakers, who told us that we are growing up in the protection of the conflict. They were telling us that our growth is due to what you have linked, basically. I do not know if this will be so, but, of course, it will not be so..., and it will not be so and will be seen when the results of the next Andalusian elections are seen or when the results of the general elections are seen. You are not the navel of the world. I do not think that, in Andalusia, they vote for us for what we are doing here. [[Widow's remorse.]] Although you, [[the orator shows a photograph to the camera]] With his photo this of « every second Spanish steals 450_euros, so say that the Andalusians or the Bats or the Riojans steal from us, so it must certainly hurt there. But I am sure that people must take precedence, where they vote, the management of themselves, for the sympathy they can have with those who really answer for the dignity of many Andalusians, extremists, Basques, Galicians who feel offended by the ways you spend here, when they say that Spain steals from us. [[Greetings.]] You have also criticized us, on the part of Esquerra Republicana: "The laws that have annulled us and that would have gone so well for the most disadvantaged and that the Constitutional Court annulled them and that we will bring them here again. What laws do you refer to, gentlemen of the Republican Left? To those whom Mr. Salvado prayed for the Constitutional Court to challenge, because they were worthless? Are these laws relevant? We condemn the aggression of a camera in Tele Madrid and we have condemned those that have suffered all the cameras. In fact, many journalists have been overwhelmed and pressured and assaulted in everything that has been connected with the process; it is precisely part of this social fracture that we ask them to solve. I remind you, Mr Aragonès, that, in Pineda, where you are mayor [[remorse of the voice]] Oh, sorry, you're a councilman, aren't you? , yes..., or was - was - councilman..., there was an almost attempted episode of lynching of civilian guards. In Canet what happened with Mrs. Arrimadas happened; she may take pictures with someone – who I don't know, what you mean –, I don't know..., those pictures that anyone approaches us and can take pictures. I know the pictures Mr. Tardà takes. [[The orator shows a photograph to the chamber.]] Look, this gentleman is convicted of terrorism, it's Otegi, and this other one is the one who put a bomb on Bultó's chest. He takes them both hugged friendly. This picture is wanted, it's not from a gentleman who comes up to you and takes a picture with you. [[Greetings. The watch shows two more photographs in the chamber.]] Photos with the Bultó terrorist, also has Mr. Torra; photos with terrorist Otegi, also has Mr. Puigdemont. For photos... [[Greetings.]] Another thing, if Inés Arrimadas spoke of « train, what is wrong with him when Mr Rufián speaks of « trullo? Between ‘trullo' and ‘trail...', please, that you see things where there are none; or tell Mr. Rufián, that he speaks of ‘trullo'. And, to finish, look, with the eastern roll of the general cause against independence, Mr Aragonès already pronounces judgment that there is no rebellion, there is no embezzlement. We are not judges, neither you nor we. This goes through a procedure and you'll see. Let's make it clear: what causes the fracture is that you, sheltering yourself in a 47_per_cent of the votes, want to take away your rights, your passport, your citizenship to the other 53_per_cent of the population, and that, logically, generates a social fracture. We've come here to talk about it precisely. Society is fractured and, to avoid it, rather than denying it, because we must do something on the part of politicians and we have proposed the five measures that we have brought to this plenary: respect the whole world; tell the truth; condemn violence; respect the laws and institutions, which you do not do, either with one or with the other and, finally, prioritise the social agenda, which is what unites us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.160.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.161.0	...and what we referred to in the rest of our speech. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.162.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mr. Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.163.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I confess I don't have a photo to teach, but I'll try to explain to you what our group's position is. In the first place, thank the whole of the answer and the arguments that he has put, counterposed to the table, therefore, the Vice-President of the Government. Allow 'the mask...', huh? A Maresmen like you can't assign Mercè Rodoreda a quote that's Espriu's, I can see his... Mirall's. [[Widow's remorse.]] The Mirall reference is broken that I made, when I read it from above. You're referring to the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Forgive me, therefore, we did not understand each other well; in any case, welcome the Spirit and welcome the Merce Rodoreda. That said, I confess to you a certain perplexity, don't I? I don't know if you share it. I have a certain feeling that we are, somehow, repeating something from the general policy debate that we did yesterday. Interestingly, a general policy debate, the most important political resolutions of which are those that precisely the chamber did not approve, nor the reprobation of the head of the State or walk towards the referendum, as a part of this chamber proposed, did it not? And it seems to me that it was obviously not a matter of repeating this debate. I'm also surprised by another question. When you see here and do what we would say, colloquially, "Read us the phone list of all the things that the government is doing and all the things that the government will do, man, we ask ourselves if this government is going to do them before the sentence. Because you, like so much – as I would say at most, I would say, and I say it with all respect, but – as at most, you have political life until then, if not up before; if we stick to what happened yesterday and to what happened these last days in the chamber, or that. And it's not a phrase he's talking about, it seems to me that he's one of the most important prescriptors of the process he says: "It's that no one broke a vein, the aorta broke. Therefore, feeling to say and project all these questions of the future in the way that you have done, as at least, on the grinola, because I do not know with what minimum of parliamentary support they count on to be able to do this. But, coming to the remarks that you have made, therefore, respect our first intervention, escorted, the fact that various ministers, representatives of the Government, members of our parliamentary group, starting with whom the president and continuing for all the Members, I believe that without exception, let them not understand, that they consider the preventive detention of prisoners disproportionate, does not imply, does not result from the confusion of the separation of powers and we stand firm. Democracy, of course, is voting, as you say, but democracy is also and, above all, respecting the rules of play, among which the first and most important is the separation of powers. And we don't care about the rings, I feel like I gave it to Miquel Iceta the other day and he said it on more than one occasion, and the same President of the General from this rostrum, in the general policy debate, told us that we are hurt and worried. And we expressed it, and expressing it also in some way is contributing, without confusing powers, but maintaining separation..., that these people should prepare their judgment from a situation of pre-trial detention that should be corrected. But don't confuse the fact that it's our opinion, that it's critical of this, and we put it in the table, that this is to be translated into a mandate, therefore, of legislative power to the judiciary or executive power to the judiciary. I think they're different perspectives, but somehow we could hear them. He said: "Home, there is an important financing problem in many things. And you're right, we've never denied it, but we said to him, "Look, the way is also going, not just to bilaterals – that we congratulate him on going there, and I think he's going to thank the government of Pedro Sánchez for the change of course that has taken place in this sense – "but he's going to multilateral conferences, to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council as well. It wasn't just going to the technical side and then to the political side to make sure they didn't go. No, no, we all have to go, and we invite him to have courage to go to everyone. And we invite you, all of you, so, particularly to the government and its president in the lead... I think it's hard time and we're going to land, very particularly – and I say it with the utmost respect – you, to a reality. What has passed these days in Parliament is not harmless, it has broken this aorta vein, and you must have the courage to tell people, therefore, that here on the street, many times, they were at the very door of Parliament, so that what they had planted will not be possible, and that they will have to transit in another way. We don't ask them to give up their ideals, absolutely. We have no right to do so, and more so, in the constitutional framework, this defence; we ask them to do so among the institutions, using the tools that give us a perfectable state, but in any case a democratic, social and right state, perfectly homologable to the state, therefore, of our European environment. That's what we ask. And we ask them for this courage, because if they go wrong, the role of the President of the Generality – the role of the President of the Generality – must be introduced serene. If there are other groups that want to sow discord, then they are very wrong, but who can't do it is who has the first responsibility in this country, and this is you, President Torra. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.164.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs Susana Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.165.0	Good afternoon. That's funny, huh? I agree with this idea that the fact that we have joined this House with the general policy debate makes it seem that some fears are repeated. As the fact that we have been so interrupted, the general policy debate, makes us forget a little that we talked about a week ago, even though in many cases it is fully in force. It is curious to see how, especially from the interventions that have been made by me..., how everyone here says that there has been a problem of coexistence, or that there is a conflict, but no one assumes the least part of what responsibility he has had in this conflict. That's all: the others made it bigger. It's still the ball in the other's eye and not the big one in the next. And I think there are a few strengths here that they can also say: "Maybe we were wrong about that. For example, with a unilateral declaration of independence, this may also have helped to strain the political situation in Catalonia and the social situation. That too. And they've taken responsibility for it. And this must also be said at some point: "We may have made a mistake, and it must be said clearly, and sometimes it is said, sometimes it is not said, sometimes it is so... When I was referring to "imaginary republic" – I know very hard if the concept has bothered me – it is not to deny the idea, the longing, the political project, of a republic, which we share more and more in many senses, it is because we do not understand that we are always insisting that we are in a republic as a result of October 1, in which October 27th is said to have proclaimed a republic. We're not in one republic right now, we're in another situation. That's why we insist and ratify that we, as a group, defend the right to self-determination, and that we believe that the reference with guarantees is the solution, beyond the results of yesterday's PR votes, which, as these huge PRs were, "I plan to put it all together, to see if with a bit of luck they don't vote for me because I'm posing something that is inexhaustible, then I can make a speech, which is seen in some of the PRs here. I'm new to these debates, but I didn't realize that any of this, I thought it was three concrete things where we clearly say what we want, don't take advantage of it to get a little bit of everything. We are for the right to self-determination, and yesterday we just lost the proposal that says that we talk about it first here, what this reference should be, that we come to a consensus and an agreement here first, to see how we set up in Madrid. That's why we don't put it as a condition, right now, in the presupposition pact that you said, Mr. President, because, you know, they've already said, to do it right, it's time, it's time to do it right, it's time to build consensus, and that's not from here to November, and that's not from here to December. And the assumptions we need already, and we need already to the State, the Generality and the Assembly of Barcelona, which, moreover, is who has been facing all this time what has not been done to the State and what has not been done to the Generality. That's why it's not a condition, now. Yes, it is a condition of changing the law that regulates the loggers so that it can regulate the abuse of prices, because this is an immediate urgency. And that's a condition that's on the table, which is why we insisted so much on withdrawing resources. Yesterday, however, this proposal has been approved, since Madrid we are told that the Government has already made a proposal to the Government of the Generality of which we do not have information, and that there is no response, to the proposal to withdraw the appeal of the 24/2015. When are they gonna explain all this to us? That is why we must not talk about this four-way deal either, because we all have to build trust ahead of this. I'm talking about a four-game pact at three levels, but we're doing so much good, so much good. Then we will never close the doors to which you are willing to work for an agreement of assumptions that gives answer to the demands of the people, to the public services that are put up, to the children's homes, to the hospitals. They set the examples, and we have the examples of everything that's not working, and you insist on saying everything that's working. But it's that you can just go to a CAP, or you can just go to school in Brazil to see that you don't, that you're wearing years of hard work, and that you're putting an effort and institutional responsibility on all levels. And this is what we are proposing, from the responsibility of one of the governments where we are, and from the groups where we are opposing, both in Parliament and there. It is not just: "We agree here on a few things and we will have assumptions to the Generality. It's much wider, it's much wider. We talk about construction, about getting back together, we talk about the priority of social policies. Now, then, we're going to vote for a whole series of PRs, and now we're asking them that as long as they voted here as they vote today, it's concrete in the assumptions of the State, here and at the Barcelona Assembly. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now is the turn of Mr Vidal Aragonès, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.167.0	It said what was the POUM militia, Orwell, that in time of universal deception, telling the truth is converted into a revolutionary act. And today there were at least two groups in this room that, speaking of regaining coexistence, what they have done is to convey objective falsehoods. First, to talk permanently about "commands, in this country, in the terms you refer to. RAE, what about "commands"? "Clash troops, armed group, military command. We don't have those commands you're talking about. That's what the RAE says; talk to the military to explain it to them. Secondly, when we speak of 'intentional assault on Parliament', we speak of 'intentional assault on Parliament'. The physical assault on Parliament is a falsehood, an objective falsehood. But if you want to talk about an assault, we have not had one, in this Parliament, a political assault, which is obviously what Llarena has done with regard to the sovereignty of this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] Also, Mr. Vice President, you gave us three examples; so, miri, we will answer the three examples you gave us. The first, we do not have skills in work, but you could have voted perfectly on what you have skills in relation to public sector sub-contracts and contracts, which is to guarantee a salary of EUR 1,200, and they voted against it. The first alternative I've read is donating. The second: we do not have normative tools for habitating. So, mirin, they approved, here, with the Subgroup of the CUP, the two groups of the Government, a motion for a resolution to recover and make effective these laws suspended. And on the suspicious laws, the one we signed, and the one we approved was that in the future they will be effective. The northern days were completed on October 3rd. Therefore, we compliment the motions that are approved. I, third question. You say, about the Law of Dependence... so, look, here we give him absolutely the reason: there are no competitions. Not even with direct disobedience would we have a law of dependence that we can give real answer to all the needy, but do you know how we give real answer? Through the construction of the republic. And we give him, in this case, with a question, in a transfer to the president or to you, the vice president. Can you build a republic without a public bank? That's what they didn't vote for yesterday, a Catalan public bank. Can we build a republic without control of essential infrastructure under public ownership? Or, to the Vice-President, we may not agree with the term 'example the social base', but we must absolutely agree that we must be more and more organized. But, obviously... let's just go by because there can't be a permanent speech where you haven't answered it in relation to school breaks, sanitation, or waiting lists at the health school, the barracks, or the university situation. You were talking to us about the number of teachers there are now. Clearly there are more teachers and more teachers, because there are more students, but the ratio is lower. So, that's gonna be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.168.0	Mr. Aragonès...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.169.0	....the way of construction of the republic. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.170.0	On behalf of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr.Alejandro Fernández. He's been doing it for a while, I get it, huh? [[Pause.]] All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.171.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Mr. Pere Aragonès has made an emotional condemnation of those people who want to expel people from Catalonia, so tomorrow he will have a perfect opportunity to prove that what he said is true, because we have already put forward a motion for a resolution to repudiate Mrs. Nuria de Gispert, for having asked that Mrs. Arrimadas leave Catalonia. We'll see what he's voting for, and then he'll see... [[Someone's applauding.]] , its coherence. Mrs Madaula told me that I too – this too is meant – would be supremacist, because I said – and I actually said – that our ideas are better. So, well, I thought the 135 deputies from this house thought our ideas were the best. It seems like no, it's 134; you didn't have to think about it. In fact, he is right, his ideas are clearly better, he has had a glittering ramp of lucidity. Thank you very much. It has been lucid, however, in change, not coherent, because it has also made an emotional and exciting demand, also impeccable, for the freedom of demonstration, a few hours after being denounced, you, curiously, to boycott the demonstration« Let us speak Spanish, for having said, textually: « We cannot allow these demonstrations, we must put up a sanitary cord. God-in-law, as a defense of your right of demonstration, with sanitary cords. This is its coherence and its lucidity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.172.0	Now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mrs. Anna Caula's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.173.0	Thank you, President. If we want a Catalonia of social rights, the republic is the way, claiming the different struggles for equal rights, remain labors, public services, feminisms, migrations, right to the city... What goes on to build a real democracy, a radically democratic and socially just Catalonia. As well, politics is possible, and, in the same way that some bet on the fracture, they can also choose to avoid it with responsibility. As on other occasions, society has gone ahead of political leaders and, with the strength of social life in the daily life, has generated connections that have supported solidarity between different people for decades, overcoming the disagreement in the land of national definition. It is precisely from here that we drink those who want to refer the report, to do justice to the country's recent history, but above all, to safeguard our social fabric. The learning of the first experience has helped to distinguish very well that the counterposition and direct confrontation to the Spanish State as the political system does not translate into confrontation to Spain as the people, as the society. Recognising the family and emotional heritage linked to Spain by a large part of the Catalan families is a task that we have as essential the main exponents of independence today, far from aspiration to social fracture. Ciutadans' strategy is very clear, and with some clear objectives. On the one hand, it is impossible for any real-life dialogue that we are trying to open between the Catalan institutions and the Spanish Government to press, both here in Catalonia and in Madrid, demanding a new 155. Exercise constant provocation to treat, precisely, to break the coexistence and make appear episodes of violence that justify the discourse of Spanish justice and the instruction of the judge Llarena. Imagining... we're doing an imaging exercise, now, for a moment. Imagine someone saying one day, a totally hypothetical situation – events around the anniversary give us strength to say that this provocation strategy sometimes goes further. Imagine that, in this hypothetical situation, we say: "The association Jusapol, which called for the demonstration of support to the Spanish police is hardly more than an instrument of anti-Catholic agitation created, driven and supported from Ciutadans. Jusapol is an armed arm of Ciutadans, just as the same party of Ciutadans ended up feeling an armed arm of Judge Llarena, of the General Council of the Judiciary. This is what you do constantly with the expression separatist commands. From the change of government produced by the motion of censure against Rajoy, Ciutadans has lost centrality, and has ceased to be the credible alternative to lead the Spanish institutions. Citizens need the Government Sánchez to fail and, for this – as the Spanish right always does – use the Catalan question as the argument and as the main battleground, for the sake of breaking together, of trying to break the Catalan society, of destroying the role of the Catalan school to build social cohesion, as it has done since the recovery of self-government in the 1980s. His Spanish nationalism, however, will not break the social unity of the Catalan people, which, among all, we have been able to absolve and preserve. The Scottish example: no one would accuse Scotland of being a divided society. Nor would I do it if I had won the 'yes' in the accounts of the 'no', because what creates division is not celebrating a referendum with an extensive and majority demand; what creates division is to frustrate it by sending police to stun voters; what creates division is to undertake politics to do politics. And so do the Catalans. According to the barometer of The Sixth, a 71_percent of the polls in Catalonia were protesting against pre-trial detention. According to the GAD3 poll, for La Vanguardia, from this July, a 77_per_cent want the freedom of political prisoners, enter a 45_per_cent of the voters of Ciutadans and a 70_per_cent of the voters of the PSC. So, then, it is not the pitfalls on our streets that believe social unrest, but the injustice that the prisoners and exiles suffer. Hollow ties to the street and to institutions only claim what a vast majority wants. Also, they always tell us that we could do more equipment, that we could work more for our country. A date that never reminds us: the police deployment of October 1 was costing 87_million euros. Now we'll explain what we could do to Catalonia with 87_million. We could do 16 institutes. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] We could make 21 choices, we could...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.174.0	Mrs. Caula, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.175.0	...to make 32 CAPs, we could make 32 fire stations. Des d'Esquerra, proud to be so different from you; des d'Esquerra, proud, tanmateix, to defend...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.176.0	Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.177.0	...and create a hundred percent in plurality and wealth. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.178.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mrs Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.179.0	Well, good one's late. Okay. Do you know what's going on with living together? Menystenir l'altre– menystenir l'altre – constantly: « the mess, « the chiringuito, « Matrix, « the roll, « the train, and tell lies. No one has said in this Parliament, since I am a deputy, that the Spaniards steal from us, no one has said it; but you follow it again, and repeat it. Okay. Just ask them that, like the daughter of a Catalan hidden in Extremadura, they do not pose the extremists or Andalusians or the people who were not born in Catalonia in their mouth to say these lies. [[Greetings.]] And precisely, we are talking about lies when we know now that in Madrid, you, the lords of Ciutadans, have entered an inquiry into the escalation of violence in Catalonia. This is to build a false report – this is to build a false report – when they speak – and they have commented on it in previous interventions – of ‘commands, when they speak of attacks, of ‘violence.' This is to build a false report that creates a false state, some lie state, precisely to justify the intent of the CUP's 'legalization' or any other independenceist. That's very dangerous. This, this creation of false state reports is more of a criminal organization than it is of a state that is said to be democratic. Watching a lot with illegalities and threats, that's what we've already experienced in other territories of this state that is said to be Spanish – vigilant. Because in Catalonia, I've told you before, we're a democratic country, we're a civic, peaceful, democratic society. The problem you have is that you're always remembering... yeah, when... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, you know what's going on? That this isn't a dialect. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres, from the escó, shows a photograph to the speaker.]] This is my turn of intervention, and you've got yours. If he's teaching things, I won't answer it right now. What happens is that you're ethnic, you're always referring to the origin of people – you're ethnic. We do not refer to the origin of the people, to their origins, but to a common objective, to a future conjunction. [[applause]] , to a shared republic – to a shared republic – where what matters is not the origin but the future, where we want to go all together. And I invite you to come with us to the shared republic. [[Rialles.]] There is a republic... – if they want; of course, democracy is the will of every individual. To a republic that is democratic and where all people can manifest freely. And of the demonstrations, which we defend, the demonstrations which you have spoken about, Mr.Alejandro Fernández, I have not yet rejected the complaint. Tell me how you have this information. [[Widow's remorse.]] I, anyway... [[applause]] That's what he was talking about before—that's what he was talking about before—threats, constant threats. Jo, to put up with the fexism, I'll go out every day in the street if I have to, but I'll let... To put an end to the fascism, yes, because to put an end to the fascism... The fascism does not wake up to be independent, the fascism has to end, it has to end with the fascism. [[Widow's remorse.]] But fascism – yes, sir, yes – it has to be stopped – it has to be stopped – and who does not agree is not a democrat. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres, from the escó, again shows a photograph to the speaker.]] And that's their problem, which is the ones who don't agree, the ones who break up, the ones who break up these families that can't argue, maybe they have a problem between democracy and repression. They're doing this thinking for you. It is not the same place to set up a loop to pull it out; it is not the same place to plant a flower to pull it out; it is not the same place to put up a banner on democracy or freedom, or to invite it to pull it out, as did the governors of his party, Ciutadans. Gentlemen of the..., well, lords of the tripartite of 155, the republic is to make social policies, as the vice president of the country has said, and the republic is to do because there is the right to self-determination. And the rights are defended, the rights are not achieved if they are not defended, and the rights are always lawful, legal and have an international appeal and recognition, such as the right to self-determination. It is the nations that must defend and develop this right to self-determination. And we for the Catalan Republic will not give up. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.180.0	After this debate, I would like to add that, in accordance with the sequence agreed upon by the Board of Spokesmen, the procedure for the subsequent motions for resolutions will follow this debate: the deadline for submitting the motions for resolutions will be until the end of today's plenary session, when it ends at six o'clock in the afternoon; the qualification and communication to the parliamentary groups and sub-groups of the proposals admitted to the Bureau will be fifteen minutes after the end of this plenary session, and a copy of this table has been made, and the deadline for submitting the compromise proposals will be later said at one noon. I remind you that, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this is an improbable term. I also inform you that the communication to the parliamentary groups and sub-groups of the compromise proposals admitted to the Bureau will take place tomorrow at a quarter of two in the late afternoon. And the presentation and voting of these proposals, of the motions for resolutions and the transactions, will be late tomorrow, presumably, at five o'clock in the afternoon. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 14/2017 of 20 July 2017 on guaranteed income of citizens]] [[202-00010/12]] Let's now move to the fourth point of the order of the day, which is the debate and vote on the proposal for the processing, in one reading, of the proposed law amending the Law 14/2017, of July 20, of guaranteed income of citizens. In accordance with Rule 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress called for the single reading of this legislative initiative and the Bureau, escorted by the Board of Spokesmen, proposed in the plenary the single reading procedure, following the establishment of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, then, we shall proceed to the vote on the single reading of this bill. We shall therefore proceed to vote on the single reading. We shall now call for a vote, but in any case they know perfectly well that the votes in favour are in favour of the single reading procedure and the votes are obviously against. Therefore, we call for a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall now proceed to the vote. Please, Members, Members, we shall now proceed to the vote; the vote on single reading. The vote begins. The proposal for a single reading of this bill was approved by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. A date approved, therefore, for a single reading, we will now proceed to the debate, which, in accordance with Article 138(3), must be substantiated according to the standards established for the debate to the totality. Therefore, let us start with the parliamentary group that makes this proposal. That is to say, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, has the word the deputy, Mr Raúl Moreno. When you want... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, if they have to abandon the hemicle, they'll do it quickly. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.181.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, will advise, the object of the proposed law that we bring today to debate in this Parliament has to see a situation that has affected, which still affects three very important collections today. For one gang, women victims of male violence, for another gang, also people without hearing and people with mental illness. What we want to do with this motion for a resolution is to give them the possibility that they can access the guaranteed income of citizenship that until now, until today, these collections cannot access it. It's been a year, you know, that we approved September 15th of last year this guaranteed income of citizenship. We did, a few weeks ago, a year from this inn on the march, the approval was July, September 15th, we put it on the march. And the debate on the question, when we had the debates on the questions all the parliamentary groups, plus, I remember that it was a law approved unanimously, they did it precisely thinking that this guaranteed income of citizenship should go to the most disadvantaged collectivities of our society. None of the groups thought that with that writing they were leaving themselves to these collectivities. When we do many times from the government a restrictive interpretation of this law, we fix ourselves precisely in these collections. They are people who are linked to a residential appeal and who, for the sake of being in a residential appeal, the interpretation made by the government of the law does not have a right to this benefit. And when we thought about the residential resource, we thought just about the people of the third age, great people who are in a residential resource and who have their basic needs covered, as much food as hygiene as housing. Finally, we said..., and we put to the law Article 7.3, which says: "Anyone who does not meet the requirements that establish guaranteed income from citizenship, with a report from the social services, will be able to access this law. Because we knew that, surely, making a law that came to all the collections would be very complicated, and so we left this door open so that the professionals could tell us which collections could benefit or not be included in this law. Well, the situation we have at these times is that the government is just taking advantage of the article on the benefits of people who are in residential appeals to say that those women who are victims of gender-based violence, those people who are not at home, as they are in a residential appeal, do not have the right to the guaranteed income of citizenship. I think... I put the theme on the table because I think it's very important to know why we're doing today's modification. It is, as I said, one year from the functioning of the inn in the run-up to the guaranteed income of the citizenry. I'm not going to make a balance of how the guaranteed income went. We have the Committee on Social Affairs, Work and Families where we have already asked for the appearance to make a much more accurate analysis of what this evolution has been, but I would like to give some data so that we know the situation in which we are. Seventy-one thousand requests: 40,000 denials, 5,000 approvals and 16,500 people, families waiting for the waiting list. One of your approved requests has been approved of those that have been valued. 7_per_cent approvals of the total requests submitted– 7_per_cent. The year 2011 had 34,000 minimum returns of insertion; now we have 7,000 less than the year 2011; 3_of_each_10 requests are denied because they exceed the income scales; 2_of_each_10 for the fact of working full-time. We have other problems: long waiting times, slowness, little justified denials. There are no 114,000 people, as the President of the Generalitat said the other day, who benefit from the guaranteed income of citizens. Here they include the old beneficiaries of the minimum income of insertion, supplements of labor returns, supplements of pensions; there are only 5,000 nine people who cover the guaranteed income of citizens. That is to say, 15 people a day who have seen their guaranteed citizenship income approved; 110 people a day who have seen their guaranteed citizenship income denied. Today we were making a plethora of coexistence, of social policies, and it seemed that the message was that until we had a republic it would not be possible, therefore, this fantasy society in which social rights are recognized. And, man, this one that's been passed unanimously, that we have the skills and that we have the resources – to remember that it's a right subject–, it seems like it's not a good example of how some people would manage these social policies in this supposed republic. We have a government commission that's still making its regulatory deployment. Therefore, the next few days, weeks, months, will have the opportunity – now a year and a year after their approval – to be able to hold the government commission. And I think that, in the end, if we want to solve the problems of these collections, that I think is what concerns all of us – beyond the intense, interesting pickles and debate that we have had during these days – we can only do this from the path of agreement. And that's why this proposal for a single reading law to change a single article we wanted to do, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, with the government's agreement. There is an insistence: both together for Catalonia and the Republican Group and the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group we have been able to make a compromise that, I insist, is directly related to people, women victims of male violence, who see a complex situation for the violence they have suffered, who have had to abandon their habitat in many cases, who have to secure their entrances, because, beyond the possible benefits they can receive, many times these are not enough to be able to carry out a new life project in a new scene, very difficult and very complex for them, so that they can rebuild their self-esteem. That is why we also believe it is appropriate to be able to pose immediately, without waiting for the 270 days of rule that these people should be allowed to access it, that they can already collect, from this modification of the law, the guaranteed income of citizenship. Or people without home. Thousands of people without going to Barcelona, who sleep in the streets, some of them sleep in residential resources – who lack more – with very different situations: people who do not take into account the current situation, who do not have a fixed domicile, who need a residential resource, who need professional support, to rebuild their social network, and also to get out, in some cases, of the addictions that they may have or well of the mental problems that can be associated with a situation of sensellarism. They cannot have collections of these characteristics without accessing the guaranteed income of citizens. This reform proposal, this law proposal to change the guaranteed income of citizens, would not have been necessary if the government had become more sensitive to this type of collection. But that's the end of it. And today I think we're taking a step forward, the result of the agreement between the government, between the groups, in this case, the opposition, because I think we all have to keep to the front not to lose the purpose of what we're doing here, that is trying to fix people's living conditions. And surely this is the only agreement that we will make today from this Parliament, which will somehow change the life of very complicated collectors. That is why, more than that, I insist on the interesting debate that we have made, it would also be a good thing for the people, as much as it is, that this Parliament is able to agree to try to fix the situation that thousands and thousands of families are seeing in our country that are waiting, once and for all, for us to respond to their concrete problems. And I think this is one. Therefore, these people, these collections, cannot wait until the rules are in place. I will celebrate, if that's what you decide, that today we can approve this reform of the law, so as to give way to situations so difficult that they are part of our day-to-day and our reality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.182.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. In order to defend the message presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, Mr Jordi Albert has the first word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.183.0	Well, thank you, President. Members, deputies, members of the government, workers and workers of the house, we are here to debate the guaranteed income of citizens and this proposal to amend the law introduced by the Socialist Party. We, when we got this proposal, studied it and saw that in the same rule that would be the case. As the regulation is not yet in place, so we sought the formula for finding a joint proposal that was negotiated with the proposing group, which is the Socialist Group. The rule, which already resolves this question..., therefore, is not a lack of sensitivity on the part of the Government, but we remember that we come from a period of convulsive force, with a 155 that has blocked and prevented many of the decisions and the operation of this Parliament and also of the same Government until it has come to constitute..., therefore, it makes it that for a long period of time we have not been able to process all the necessary steps so that this rule is already done at hours of this time. But very soon it will be. In fact, it has already been granted with all entities, it has been granted with the College of Social Workers, and it has also been granted with the unions, the format and the content of this rule. And, therefore, very soon you will see the light, and we hope that you will have the support of all parliamentary groups, as we will certainly continue to work. It's of general interest, this law. Conseller Bassa made her, in her moment, her main battle horse. I wanted you to get out of this, yes or yes, during your term, and he finally got it. And currently the advisor The Homrani is the person who has the repte to last it to term, to deploy it. Councillor El Homrani, who was one of the speakers of this Law of guaranteed income of citizens, the Law 14/2017. Therefore, it is evident the commitment of the Republican Group, it is evident the commitment of the People of the Republican Left because it pulls forward. And for this very reason we presented a proposal that improved, at last, the initial proposal of the Socialists and Units Party to advance. A proposal where we went further and incorporated other collections. And we did so on the basis of the very will of the law, which was the elaboration of a work plan to achieve social and economic emancipation, and also with a very clear will to take over the people who are ill-advised to cling to the guaranteed income of citizenship. For us, that's cool, because we don't want welfare policies. We do not want our government to work from assistanceism. We want our government to take over people, take over citizens and citizens. We want – we want – to be citizens and free citizens in all senses. And the guaranteed income of citizenship is this necessary and surely essential thing that allows – which allows – us not to abandon in the maximum of inequalities, in the maximum expression of inequalities, people who have unfortunately encountered many and many problems in their lives. And we can't allow this – we can't allow this. That's why it's so important that this law is deployed. And that is why it is so important that the parliamentary groups here together have the same sensitivity to respect, and that we accompany the government. And that, logically, we demand of the Government, which is our obligation – we are in the Parliament of Catalonia. But above all – above all – we are aware that from this law we cannot demagogicize, and that from this law we cannot use situations that are so hard to see in our own country and country. That is why we also call on this collective sensitivity, which, of course – and much more after the debate we have just had – will be in this Parliament from then on. Because, in fact – in fact – the will of all when we find ourselves and, in effect, look at each other to reach an agreement, is this. And we note it – and we note it. When we talk about how we can improve the deployment of the same law, we agree that we all have the same objective, that we all have the same objective. Unfortunately..., there is also a common thread that we can hardly accept, because we consider..., as well as fully share its source – we fully share the source to which it refers respect the minor, the minor not protected–, we know perfectly well that the problem went beyond this and that we did not resolve it by incorporating it here, but we do not need to talk, I am not convinced. Because we know that these minors, when they enter the different areas of their homes, find refuge and begin their own phase of personal empowerment and feel like they are citizens. But up there, most of the time, and here's where we have a problem. And we know we have a problem. Therefore, it is obvious that we too must put everything in our grasp to resolve this situation. But, unfortunately, this point that is presented from the Group of Commons does not..., we believe that it does not focus directly on the plot of the problem, but we need to talk about it and we need to delve into it. Data has been presented. These data are penjadas, it's data from the 18th of September, and, therefore, it's current strength. Throughout the period of petitions, we have added that in the initial phase there has been a great flood of petitions. As the months have passed, these petitions, therefore, have declined. However, it is true that the 155_block has also blocked many of these resolutions. And, besides, we also found ourselves with another case – and here we do ask the socialist companies that also give a hand, because here they can do it – and it is that those people who receive a benefit from the State, if from the government the income was lost, the income was lost, they lose that benefit. And, therefore, until this situation was unblocked, there was a series of procedures here that could not be pulled forward because if it had been pulled forward, instead of favoring the applicant, what we did was to end up hurting her. Therefore, we are grateful that with the Socialist Group we have been able to deal with the Juntas Group for Catalonia, that since the government there is a clear will because this is a success, but we are also convinced, we are convinced that this will not be a success if, since this Parliament, we do not help that it is also a success. Therefore, the place to continue working, to continue doing our work, that we do very well, and also to encourage Councillor El Homrani who, as he put it, knows perfectly how important it is and knows perfectly how Councillor Bassa placed it in one of the highest priorities of her Government. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.184.0	Thank you, Mr. Albert. The words of Ms. Saloua Laouaji, of the Parliamentary Group Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.185.0	Hey, nice late. Mr President, Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors, Workers and Workers, and invited persons, it touches on us, today, to address the position of our group, Junts per Catalunya, in relation to the proposed law amending the Law 14/2017, of 20 July, of the guaranteed income of citizens, which will be treated and voted for the single reading procedure, as has already been said before. And we don't have to interpret this as a lack of interaction with the experts, because we think we need to put this formula that gives the advantage and the possibility of an immediate execution of the agreed modifications and that will be approved. We work to ensure the minimums of a life worthy of people who are at risk of poverty, social exclusion and violence, so as to promote autonomy, help them to have better self-esteem and active participation in their daily lives and in our society. In the first place, we recognize, appreciate and value the effort and work done for the platform promoting the popular legislative initiative of guaranteed citizenship income. And let's hope, of the mark of will..., the duty to improve, to study for more in view of the possibility of contemplation of other collections, because there is no intention of exclusion. And especially, that the law puts people at the center, and because our perspective is framed by giving more importance to people, their dignity and their conditions, and not to their residential circumstances. Article 2 defines the guaranteed income of citizenship as a social benefit of economic nature and guaranteed periodic perception, of subjective right, that has as its purpose to develop the promotion of the person, his ownership and overcome the conditions that have required this benefit. And, in response to this article, we have done, together with the Republican Group and the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, the transactional theme, which consists of the modification of the paragraph and of Article 7.1, include in the guaranteed income of citizens, in a specific way, the people without land, the persons benefiting from a public or private benefit, the permanent residential service of social, health or social health, as commented by the Lord of the Socialist Group, and the women victims of male violence. And, with reference to this later point, we must bear in mind that masculinist rapes are the greatest exponent of the structural inequality of our social environment and are a very difficult problem, which, structurally, represent a persistent attempt at human dignity and rights on an important part of the population of our society. We do not mean that all women who have suffered or suffer from male violence are poor, but all cases speak to us of unequal factors, even greater, which place women in greater vulnerability. If we see that we are ahead of a hard rock that our country has, like many other places in the rest of the world. The fight against violence against women is a priority that binds society as a whole together, an obligation that corresponds, in the first instance, to governments, administrations, but also to political parties, parliamentary groups, trade unions, civil organizations and people – men and women –. And, for all this, the victims of male violence could not at any time be excluded from the right to guaranteed citizenship income. Returning to the modification of the paragraph and section 7.1 and to comment that one of the advantages of the modifications is that even though the person is housed in a pool or social service hotel, he has the right to perceive the guaranteed income of citizenship and is not considered to be in a permanent establishment of social services, because the establishments hosting these people must always be considered temporary. The goal is to drain them while they have no economic resources that allow them to live a normal life with equality. That the housing aid granted by any public administration, whether it is the Generality or at the local level, is not imputed as an input, as long as it has a specific purpose of compensation for expenditure and does not increase the disposable income of persons. Because, in previous times, this situation has caused some people, all that the law indicates, to have renounced the housing benefit in order to obtain the guaranteed income of citizens, which represents a higher import. The conclusion of this is that persons who enjoy a residential public or private service are not restricted in their right to enjoy guaranteed citizenship income. Let us repeat and insist that guaranteed citizenship income is a support for those who do not have access to what we believe are the basic rights that allow for an autonomous and dignified life, a quality job and access to housing. And, given that the deployment is until 2020, and taking into account the intention to extend the coverage of this right to other collectivities with social need, it is anticipated that, with the planned commitments, guaranteed citizenship income will be one of the main benefits and social measures of this legislature with the Honourable President Torra, as it was in the previous legislature with the Government of President Puigdemont. As you know, it is important – and we must bear in mind – that it is a recent experience that has been marked, unfortunately and unjustly, by the democratic abnormality of 155, that has avoided the deployment of the guaranteed income regulation of citizenship and that has harmed us and distorted both the application and the interaction with normality with the entities that are to form the governing council. But still, we do not have to take this circumstance as an excuse that prevents us from self-criticizing and we have to go to perfect our attention to our citizenship and, above all, to the most in need and to the situation of vulnerability or violence, among other unpleasant situations. As I said the last time I intervened from this Faristol, the guaranteed income of citizenship is a social justice issue, which represents the core of its mission and the promotion of development and human dignity, and its main mission is to eradicate the poor and social exclusion, to compensate for inequality and promote access to social welfare for everyone, plus its fundamental principle for social cohesion and peaceful and peaceful coexistence. And, for all this, we will vote in favour of changing the law, which is proposed in this single reading that we are doing now. In the case of In Comú Pode, we do not vote against, but simply the owner, who is the Socialist Group, considered that negotiating them..., with the argument that they may be very good, but does not guarantee that the necessary modifications are tankin. If I could expand the themes to modify, I would do so for the long procedure and not for the single reading, which allows us to advance an immediate execution. Finally, I say, we cannot hear the claim of a right to a sovereign, to a democracy and to activate the aspiration to a new egalitarian paradigm and equity of better social justice, without a unitary project of economic, personal and collective autonomy, of better conditions of the lives of all people living in our country, Catalonia. And, finally, I would like to refer to the quote of the French philosopher and politician Voltaire, on social justice, who says: « The people to whom no justice is given will seize it for themselves, sooner or later. And a justice carried far too far can turn into an injustice. And also to quote the Scottish politician Arthur Henderson, who says: "Another essential part of the universal and lasting pau is social justice. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.186.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Ms Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.187.0	Okay. This law – I always remember it, because it is important to remember it – was approved unanimously of this chamber, but, moreover, it came from a popular legislative initiative that had achieved 121,000 signatures. Therefore, we are not talking about any law, we are talking about a law that has a social support and which, moreover, deploys a very sensitive right of citizenship, which has generated, moreover, a great expectation to our society: an economic benefit designed to give response to people, to family units in situations of vulnerability. The guaranteed income of citizenry. It's been a little over a year since we approved it in Parliament, a year that has unfolded. Certainly, it wasn't easy to deploy, except when we were putting in such a complicated urgency of time as we put in the same law, but we're already wearing a year, now there's no excuse, with urgency. And, one year later, we continue to feel that there is a mismanagement – and we must continue to do so – of the guaranteed income of citizens. There is a mismanagement of a law that goes with this broad social support, that is approved for the unanimousness of this chamber and that deals with a subject as sensitive as this right for such sensitive collectivities as those of wide vulnerability, such as persons or family units who do not have sufficient resources to have a decent minimum of life. There's no good management. Let us continue with responses to requests that do not arrive or without good justifications, not well argued, generating insecurity, generating frustration, which all this, moreover, obviously bounces into the workers who are in direct attention, from the SOC, pal·liand and doing their work every day with this situation. We will also reiterate the complaint that we consider to be making a restrictive application of the law, of the criteria set by the same law, and that this is leaving a lot of people who should have right to the guaranteed income of citizenship out of this performance. And obviously, and what we're talking about today is that, besides, this year we also could show that there were some holes that were the fruit of the same law. We had forgotten or had not thought of certain creased articles that could end up damaging concrete collections and could leave out concrete collections of this right. Well, today, from the Socialists Group, we try to settle it for two concrete collections: victims of male violence and people who do not want it, who find it, therefore, that if they had a housing appeal, logical and normal that they need it, they could be left without the guaranteed income of citizenship. We obviously agree with the proposal put forward by the Socialist Group; it was two of the collectives on which to resolve this situation, and we are pleased that today we can resolve it with this change. But not only were these collections left out of the law for errors of the same law. Our parliamentary group has submitted two papers on this proposal for a law of the Socialist Group, because there are more collections that we have detected during this year that were left out and that we can solve it better in the drafting of the law. They didn't admit, they only admitted one in transit. For the fact that we are doing this read-only law, well, we understand the argument not to pervert the read-only, to make the things formally correct, that we cannot introduce all these collections and, therefore, all these items into this debate. But we don't want to stop talking about it, that the formal theme doesn't follow the trees that don't let us see the woods. These collections continue to be outside, these personal situations that we put in the papers continue to be outside the right to guaranteed citizenship income due to errors in the law that can be resolved. And that we replace him, counselor, and that we replace the government that solves it by regulation. In fact, we demand them, because I don't think it was the law's experience to leave out of the guaranteed income of citizenship those people who find a job in full time but for a very short time, the tickets that end up with them don't have higher tickets than the income indicator of sufficiency; but because that job that they have found has been in full time has not been in full time, they can't cover the guaranteed income of citizenship. And that's not the expert of the law, at least not the expert of the law when we were debating it, and I don't think it should be the expert of Mr. El Homrani when we were debating it. It has to be settled with the rules. People who do not charge anything but who have right to some other type of State subsidy, or State benefit, but do not have it processed. Obviously, it has to be done, but what can't be done is that we leave them without anything while we don't do it. I don't think you were that expert, counselor. Those people who complete all the requirements but have a car or a common use property park stay out of the law. Maybe they can settle it, right? We tried it with a thought, it wasn't possible, they solved it with the rules. Families with children in charge, who may fail to complete some request, but who can count on a report from social services; they are not doing so, counselor, they are not doing it. We wanted to shield him even more to the law, because we have a poor child problem in our country, very hard, and it can't be that because the parents make some mistakes, the children are paying for it all their lives. We have to shield this, shield it in the rules. And the thought that has remained alive: the young extolls. Less than twenty-three years. The guaranteed income of citizenship, the law says you have to be twenty-three years old to access it. The young extutelates in Catalonia get help either from six months or three years as the maximum, like young extutelates. They don't get to the twenty-three; on the twenty-one, those who are more favored, and have three years of extolling help, are left without this kind of help. If they don't have work, that in the world we live in is likely enough, or they don't have a few small tickets, before they have the minimum income of insertion; now, with the guaranteed income of citizenship, they've gone without a word. Indeed, we cannot solve it today, from the point of view that the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podem, we have presented in this law, and that it is still alive and we can vote on it today? It's a theme that we've worked with the Federation of Entities with Projects and Assisted Floors, those working with these extolled young people, and Save the Children. So today's message that we're giving from this House to these young people is that we don't give them a solution and leave them stuck because we're already solving it some other way, you know when, you know what? Let's vote the puzzle and introduce it to the law and shield these situations. I think you're justice. Besides, how much are we talking about? A hundred? Can't we give them an answer already to these hundreds of young people who have been traumatized by an environment in which the rights are not guaranteed? Have public resources been invested in it, such as minor guardianships, and then as extolls, and then let them go? Perhaps why should there be no more reason to return to that circle from which we have extremised them? Okay. We will support the Socialists' proposal, but I believe that we cannot lose the opportunity with this proposal to resolve the situation of young extolls. And, yes, I also want to take advantage of it to evaluate a little what's going on with the law's management of the guaranteed income of citizens, the data. The Socialist MEP made it earlier, but I want to insist. One hundred and thirty thousand people, yes, but let's break it down. This means 27,000 families who have guaranteed citizenship income. They're less families than they get the minimum income for insertion in 2016. I want to say 45,000 pensioners or beneficiaries of low-income state benefits. It's more or less the same amount I got back in 2016. Now they're getting more money, right, and we don't want to make him care about that fact. But how many real beneficiaries are there of guaranteed citizenship income, counselor? Five thousand? Six thousand, are they generous? Indeed, the global world of people at risk of poverty in our country has not increased, is it not superior to that which was already very insufficient of the minimum income of insertion in 2016? I don't think that was what we wanted to do with the guaranteed income of citizenship. The guaranteed income of citizenship pretended to be a tool to reverse inequality, it has to continue to feel our objective. It is the only instrument approved in the past years in this chamber to attack the problem structurally, to redistribute the wealth in a real way. But you, with the application you're making, you're perverting that spirit. It's been a long time, that. And they don't have time to thank you anymore, Counselor. They've exhausted it, and it's been a while. The direct managers of the management [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] This performance is the same as it was a year ago. If they don't know how to do it better...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.188.0	Mrs. Ribas, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.189.0	...maybe someone who knows how to do it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.190.0	Then tea, for a turn against, says the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.191.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to reply to Mrs Marta Ribas, who, let us say, the papers presented, at this point in time discussing a proposal for a single reading law, we, as a parliamentary group, have already warned that the papers that should have been subsumed on this article, should refer to the article that we were amending because I did not feel the reading unique. And, therefore, of the gods which you have presented to us, there is not one left in which I want to make reference and which ask for two basic things: that those young guardians for the Generality, who become extolled for the Generality, without the minimum requirement of guardianship time, may be entitled to the guaranteed income of citizenship. Therefore, when we do not have a minimum requirement for guardianship, we do not speak of a few hundred, we speak of a lot more, because here we are surrounded by collectivities, smaller ones who are not accompanied that become protected for a time by the DGAIA and then already complete the majority of the age. So let's talk about a very important universe. And it's a very interesting debate. And I quite agree with his proposal, but I think that guaranteed income, we would do ourselves a little favor if we took it as a species of law where all the collections can somehow be represented, because we distort, I believe, the purpose of the law, which is to make it as universal as possible. And there is the law of benefits – the law of benefits – which is the one that says who are the services to be held by the minor guardians and extolls of the Generality. And, therefore, if we are to make a change, I from the formal point of view would consider doing it more through this law than through the guaranteed income of citizenship. It's a debate we can have. But, in any case, let us consider, at least our parliamentary group, that guaranteed citizenship income is not the preferred place to be given and given rights to these young people but that we must do so through another law, the law of benefits. And it's not just from the economic point of view. The most important thing is that there are social inclusion plans and work inclusion plans so that they can get out of their exclusion situation. And the second proposal he made to us was that those people or young people who find themselves in a situation of difficult social exclusion, mediating a report from the social services, might be entitled to the guaranteed income of citizenship, which is all just what Article 7.3 of the Law says, to which you in plain reference, which is: any person who has not fulfilled some of the requirements, whenever he has a report from the social services, will be able to access the guaranteed income of citizenship. And, therefore, it is an article that is already in the same law and that is necessary to deploy it that there is a rule. That's true, because it can't be done globally. And the rules, for the information I have been able to share with Councillor El Homrani, I'll back off, somehow, which way it can be done. And let's hope you can approve it soon. It's not that he wants to rush them, it's that with the regulation we can probably solve many of the things we have now, but clearly, when they tell us we have to wait around two hundred days... Clearly, people can't wait two hundred days. And, therefore, if we have to make some changes from the legislative point of view because the collectivities at greater risk of exclusion may have their ability to enter guaranteed income solved, so we will do so. And, therefore, these are the reasons for which, Mrs Ribas, we have not admitted this. And Mr. Jordi Albert and Mrs. Saloua, well, I agree with your presentations, with some materials. The proposal you make, Mr Albert, improves the initial text, yes. That's why we actually traded it. It would be useless to think that 'no, no, that's mine, I said. If the proposal you see from the government improves, because it includes, besides, people with mental illness and specifies in which way and to which collectius was destined this service, we will not have to wait for the rule to be able to develop it. Therefore, I believe that the wording allows it to be done quickly. Now, I have to tell you, too, I'm worried about the basics. It is relatively simple to be able to give an economic benefit, what is much harder is that these people can find a job inclusion plan – job inclusion plan – because they can reintegrate into society. And here, that's what money is. That's really the complicated one, and here's where we have to put the effort if we don't want to do welfare policies. This is the key. I'm done. You always get to serve the public's wild card; when it goes wrong, it's 155. I remember, Mr. Josep Ginesta, Secretary General of Work, Social Affairs and Families, in a public communication media said that 155 did not have any kind of incident – no kind of incident. Your signature, your signature from the government. There may be some problems, but you can't tell us that as 155 has been, we just couldn't give five thousand. We will see from here a few months, to see if without 155 what capacity the Government has had to respond to the situation of many people in our country. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.192.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is the turn, to fix its position, of the remaining parliamentary groups and subgroups, and, in this case, it is the turn of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. I've got a word for Congresswoman Naomi of the Street. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.193.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Today we are discussing a proposal to amend a law which, as has been said, entered into force just over a year. A law that is the fruit of much effort. Efforts of all those involved in the promotion and collection of signatures; efforts of all Members who participate in the paper to be able to draw up a law that was very necessary in time. A law that is the last safety net of those people who are going through the worst. And so we made that great effort, so that it could enter into force as soon as possible. It has been over a year and we can already assess how the Government is managing this benefit. The reality is far removed from what some of us would like, even more so when the poverty risk indicators in Catalonia continue to increase in recent years. We have a positive administrative silence that the Government is not fulfilling, as has already been said. We have causes of denial that leave the citizen completely defenceless as the Administration does not specify the reason. We have groups that are staying out, not because there is a problem with the articulated but because they do not know that they have the right to receive the benefit, as is the case with the pensioner group. We have stress situations that translate into job losses and some sense of insecurity on the part of the workers who are processing it. And we have, how to say it? , a cloud cloud flying over the service because we get information about the possibility that job placement programs will be granted to a part of those on whom the task of assessing the impact of the law will fall. That is to say, most likely a part of the follow-up commission, not all of it, obviously, is made up of those who have interests, and they are going to be judges and parties. This is ugly, it's very ugly and very typical of banana republics with large customer networks. Let's hope this doesn't happen. And we also have, with the latest data provided by the Government in September, a 13_percent refusal for having a partial employment contract, despite not having sufficient income. This 13_per_cent of the total of more than 54,000 evaluated applications correspond to 7,117 families, which, despite their work, do not reach a minimum income, and despite the fact that the law recognizes compatibility with part-time employment income, the Government does not want to extend beyond single-parent families. And the government's lack of will is what brings us here today, and the triquiñuela he used to delay payment of the benefit to certain groups for a few months. Because if the Government had had the will to make this benefit accessible to victims of sexist violence, to the homeless community and to people with first-person mental health experiences, it would not have been necessary to amend the law. Because this trip didn't take so many pillows, and I'm going to explain why. The Government began to deny applications to certain groups, such as the homeless, mental health users, and victims of macho violence, in which article 7 e said that in order to be eligible for the benefit, it could not be the same as a permanent residential service. But it is that shelters for homeless people, or shelters for victims of sexist violence, are not a permanent social resource, it is a temporary use of last necessity. And provisional uses are, by definition, contrary to permanent uses. So easy. There was no need for this proposal of law, there was no need for will. And, as the worst of usurers, they have once again cut off the most vulnerable groups. The Government, two of the most vulnerable groups in society, denied them a benefit to which they were entitled, excused falsely, in an interpretation of the articulation whose resemblance to reality was mere coincidence. Making use, moreover, of an exacerbated cynicism, because they have already shown that, trying to fail to comply with laws, they have no mania, they do it every day, with the Organic Law of Education, they did it with the Constitution, and even with the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia itself. Our magnas letters are loaded without blushing, but they are greeted with a misinterpretation of the Guaranteed Income Act to deny the benefit to victims of gender-based violence and homeless people. And everything to save if you pay for a few months. What will be the next collective to be excluded? Are we going to have to make a law for every collective that you exclude? From Citizens we affirm that, on the basis of the original article, the Government cannot exclude victims of macho violence, or homeless people, because their residential resources are not permanent. We denounce, with all our energy and with all our indignation, that the Government has taken advantage of these two collectives to save a few euros, which will then most probably be spent on what they are used to. And we reiterate that these groups were already entitled to receive the benefit before this proposed law. We regret the systematic mistreatment of the Government of laws that come from civil society, such as guaranteed income from citizenship or the LGBTI Collective Rights Act. When the law was passed they rushed to appropriate it and get out in all the photos, but now that the spotlights, well, are not, they have no interest in deploying it. Stop trying to fool the citizenry. If they didn't like the law, they would have said it at the time. It's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right. And if you believed that there was no money for..., or that you did not have to devote these resources to people, then, who were worse going through it, then, having said it then, but enough of speeches that you do not believe yourselves, it is good to posture, because your facts define them, not your words. And the facts are that they're tearing down a law that pretended to be the last safety net of the worst they're going through. And I'd like to..., I meant Congressman Jordi Albert and the gentlemen of the government, who, beyond the statements, as Congressman Raúl Moreno has said, right? , by Josep Ginesta, and the own group promoting guaranteed income, that 155 had nothing to do with it. But, of course, they say: 155 has delayed the regulation. But, of course, then, 155 has also delayed the regulation of the LGTBI Act adopted four years ago, or the Accessibility Act adopted in 2014, or the Children's Rights and Opportunities Act, 2010, which has no regulations, or the Family Support Act of Catalonia, 2003, which has no regulations, the Social Services Act, 2007, which has the most outdated social services portfolio, or the Family Reception for Older Persons Act, 2001, which, seventeen years after its adoption and has no regulations. All right, stop lying. From Citizens we will vote in favour of this bill, obviously, because we agree with the right of these citizens to receive the benefit, because if this law is to be passed for the Government to loosen the portfolio for the benefit of citizens, we do so. We thank Congressman Raúl Moreno for his presentation. Now, I do not want to leave this Faristol without telling the Socialist Party that I would like to see this same enthusiasm for helping the homeless, both when they are in the opposition and when they are in the government. Because, of course, then we see them in Hospitalet, who have been ruling for forty years, and last July they dropped a proposal to carry out a census of homeless people in order to be able to follow up on them and plans for social and employment integration. Something that we believe was a mistake, and we hope, therefore, that they will be willing to rectify. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.194.0	Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.195.0	Good afternoon. The last time we spoke of guaranteed income from citizenship, this group ended its intervention, for a band, thanking the Socialist Group for the proposal that it had made. Secondly, wishing that we never speak again in this plethora of guaranteed income of citizenship; but also, thirdly, they say in a very clear way, that, unfortunately, unfortunately, we would again speak of it. And, as we finished the previous intervention, we start today: thanking, in this case, the Socialist Group in the person of Deputy Moreno, the proposal that brings us to today's plenary; secondly, thinking that so much we should never again speak, to the plenary, of guaranteed citizenship income, but with a clear perspective that seems to us to speak again in this plenary. To enter..., in relation to the content of the text that is proposed, first in the formula expressed to me by the Socialist Group and in the transaction. We want to make an acclaim: it is certain that it would not have been necessary for this modification to be made in order to recognize the right. And we want to say, because you are very clear, etched, and because if someone is going to go to court, to recognize him, for this period, the one that will go from approval to modification, the rights that now, supposedly, they want to incorporate, can defend that even the whole legislature, to the chamber, or part of the legislature, clearly had that already recognized. That said, no problem, all the contrary, we appreciate that the Socialist Group, before a practice of the Administration that is not to recognise this, therefore, put forward a proposal to amend the wording. And, therefore, the initial wording seemed very good to us, which makes reference, not only to people without restraint, but to women who are victims of gender-based, male-based violence. Yes, we also want to make it clear that, in the format that has been processed, it is certain that it is embedded in more collections, and therefore that from a subjective point of view it can bring more, but we also want to make it clear that from a point of view of processing, recognition, and, even more, of complementary requirements it can be a difficulty. It is difficult that, we give it to the government, it is at its hands that it disappears, and it is at its hands in a very simple way: through the regulation. Now we're in a process of getting rid of the rule, so draft the rule because this can't be interpreted in a sense, even so, that you can assume to reduce rights in relation to the proposal that the Socialist Group initially made. And we want to say, too, that we agree, in relation to the theme number 3, which was the one proposed by the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomera. By the way, we presented, too, papers. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We don't think this is that important either. That we disagree in voting or processing is a complementary issue, but it is a pity that we do not agree to see what needs to be addressed to our people, who would have been important. And on the content of the same, we do want to make it very clear that it seemed necessary to us that for questions such as young extutes, who cannot have a right to a benefit for their condition of young extutes, so obviously it is possible to recognize more rights or the right to the guaranteed income of citizenship. Look, two weeks ago, with the counselor here, in his appearance, one of the questions that we had conveyed to you: what do we do after this follow-up of the minors? So, for a very good follow-up than we do of the children of the Catalan Administration, if after we don't give them an alternative, then the work will only have an effect during a period. But let's look at a whole series of young people – certainly, not only migrants, but also young people who have not been migrants – who do not find a future, and who do not find a future can never be a prospect of government. The last question – and certainly the most important –: positive administration silence. I review all the administrative action of approval, denial and, above all, withdrawal, because it is not possible to convert what is the right to the positive administration silence, into a supposed withdrawal through bureaucratic mechanisms. And that's what they need to check out. And we moved back, for a band, to the deputies and the deputies of Juntes for Cat and the Republican Group, we did it in the genre, from the genre we talk to them and with them about this topic. We did it, too, from the first moment we had counsel, with Mr. El Homrani, in a very clear way that we thought there was a mismanagement of the guaranteed income of citizenship. If you answer that perhaps there was an affect, not of 155, that this has already become clear, but of the non-existence of regulation or of the governing commission. But let's say it again: it's not a problem with the rules or the governing committee, it's a problem with a particular management model, that if we don't use it in a proper way, the management formula ends up completely emptying what are subjective rights. And let's finish as we started: so good we never talk again in this guaranteed income plethora, but unfortunately, we'll talk about it again. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.196.0	Thank you, Mr Aragones. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.197.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it does not cost me people to recognize that I do not... – I am sure that many of you do not have any doubts – that in our party..., this, a..., this is a law, that of guaranteed citizenship income, is a law that we are not enthusiastic about. We are not enthusiastic, but we will also be allowed to say, because the interested parties, therefore, have not said, that to the previous governments they were not enthusiastic either. I'd say they were less excited than they were excited about us. Because I want to remember that this ILP that was presented during the year 2013 was approved in Parliament the year 2014, it was not finally approved until the year 2017, that there was a government, first, of Convergence, sun, that did not excite him this law, and then a government of Convergence with the Republican Left, looking like today, that did not excite him either. And there have been interventions, that make reference, precisely, to the emphasis of Constellera Bassa because this law is approved, and to that of the layman, on behalf of Juntes for the Yes, at that time, the current Consteller El Homrani. To the respect of this law, therefore, they will allow me a personal appreciation: I am convinced that I was more enthusiastic about this law the current Councillor El Homrani than the Lower Councillor. Moreover, there was a moment in the process of dealing with that law, which they succeeded in..., the Government managed to bring together all the parliamentary groups with a unanimous position against the position that the Government was defending. And I say: « Among all the parliamentary groups. All, so is the People's Party. We weren't... we weren't excited about it, but we defended it from the very beginning, because we understood and understood that it was a good tool and that it could be a good tool, well used. We used the whole parliamentary process to try to modulate it and to try to make it a law that was perfectly consumable. And this was our role in dealing with this law, but it was essential to be aware that surely the government was the one who was most against it. This is a benefit, that of guaranteed citizenship income, it has been said, that it has many casuístics, that it has many particularities, and that, therefore, ugly..., makes it essential to develop a regulation that intends to provide for all these casuístics and all these solutions. We have already heard that, obviously, the guilt that we are here today, talking about this ad hoc amendment of the law, for a given case, so it is the fault of 155, which is the one that put an end to the rule. And, look, so, if I may, I'll say yes, it's possible; with nuances I'll explain it to you now, but yes, it's possible that 155 is responsible. For example, the 155 silver coins that meant that President Puigdemont did not call a certain election on a given day and, therefore, could avoid the application of 155 of the Constitution. But also the fact that the 155 that was applied to October was a transitory situation that had to last until the month of generation, but, of course, the majority that won the elections on the 21st of December, so it went to entertainment, I was in no hurry to call government – it should already go well to that of 155 – and went to it extending until June. And, finally, 155 didn't remove the sentient Department of Social Affairs, it removed the councillor, and I don't think it was the council that you had to write, of its punch and letter, the rule that the Law of Guaranteed Citizenship Income was to develop. But here we go to the oak of the oar. And the rovell de l'ou is that the presupposition of 2017 – and hence the problem – does not contemplate the entry into force of the guaranteed income of citizens. And, therefore, as the 2018 one is extended from 2017, neither the 2018 one contemplates the application of the guaranteed income of citizens. And therefore, the work that has been done in relation to the application of guaranteed citizenship income has been limited, i.e., trying to deny all possible petitions to prevent presuppositional parties from leaving the sea in relation to what was foreseen in the 2017 presupposition. And that is why, surely, many of the denials that have been made automatic, because there was no time to resolve and because there was the positive silence, were precisely the result of this circumstance. That's why we're giving support to this one-time change, which solves a specific case...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.198.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.199.0	... of the Guaranteed Income Law – and I finish – without prejudice to the fact that, obviously, the right solution: one, in the regulation; two, in providing the right premise. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-10-1701.200.0	Thank you, Congressman. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall vote, first of all, on item 3 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, as the item presented jointly for the Parliamentary Groups of Junts for Catalonia and the Republic was the subject of a compromise with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and we shall vote on it later. Therefore, we will vote, I repeat, first, the issue number 3 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Start the... [[Widow's remorse.]] Right now. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 110 against, 3 abstentions and one Member who did not vote. Let's now vote on the transactional slogan signed for the Junts parliamentary groups for Catalonia, the Republic and Socialists and Forward Units. The vote begins. [[Some applause.]] Let's hope, in any case, that we proclaim the results, and then, if you want to applaud, applaud. This compromise was adopted by 126 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Next, and according to Rule 138.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the joint initiative is subject to a single vote. So, we are voting now on the text of the resulting proposal. The vote's on. The proposed law amending Law 14/2017 of 20 July 2017 on guaranteed citizenship income was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and against. [[Greetings.]] The session is suspended until tomorrow morning. Good afternoon.
