ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.1.0	Let's start the session. The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the dossier that all of you have, and, in accordance with Rule 164, will be replaced tomorrow morning by the morning gods, as appears on the agenda of this plenary session. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions and of the Permanent Council (arts. 49.2 and 74.3 of the Rules of Procedure)]] The first point of the order of the day is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions and the Permanent Diputation. In accordance with Articles 49.2 and 74.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees and the Bureau of the Permanent Chamber shall be communicated to the Plenary. As the new composition of the months of the Commissions and the Permanent Council is included in the Ple's file that all of you have, I urge you to complete the reading. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we can give this as a complement to what the Rules establish and, therefore, I have informed the Plenary of the composition of these months. All right. [[Interview with the Government on business support policies]] [[300-00018/12]] So let's move on to the second point of the order of the day, which are the questions; and, in this case, the question to the Government about policies supporting the enterprise, which is presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The honourable Member, Alicia Romero, explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.2.0	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Counselors..., well, today the Socialist Group and Units for Forward wants to talk about..., somehow, about the ambitions of a country, right? , on whom are the strategies of Catalonia for which it does, therefore, to the generation of its wealth. And I say that, in general, because we think it's what we'd like to do. At the very least, we would like to reflect on a country to build and to add. Therefore, I do not want this intervention, I would not like this intervention to end up feeling a ball of positive and negative data. The government is interested in selling the positives, they say, to the opposition the negatives, when this is not true; we all care that the economy works well, that it generates wealth and jobs in the territory; that we have strategic stakes to face the challenges and opportunities of the future, but we also ask the government that it is honest – that it is honest – and that it recognizes where the fevers are, where the problems are, where the weaknesses are that should allow us, if we look at them face to face, therefore, to put public policies on the table, which allow us to improve them. And, in this sense, it's true, and the councilwoman said it a few days ago to the Commission on Enterprise and Knowledge, some things have been done well, obviously, the country has been gambling for years. Not only the country, Generalitat de Catalunya, but also the assemblies. If today Barcelona is one of the most important attractions for what it does to start-ups, it's because the joint ventures are more than twenty years old than they are for entrepreneurship, for incubation of enterprises, for acceleration..., and this, obviously, has had an impact, after these twenty years of public policy, isn't it? So it's been a lot of effort. But if some things are working out today, we want to ask: what will happen tomorrow? There's not enough to make a self-fulfilling speech about things going well, positive data is these... we also think we need to think about how we're going to face the future. And, therefore, here is no longer a self-fulfilling speech, because we don't know what will happen in the future, but we do have to lay the foundations, we do have to lay the conditions to try to get the best or the most successful possible. She said I don't want to go into some data, because we'd have negatives, too, and so I think that what's worth the most is being honest. But in any case, to focus on the issue that the Socialists and Units Group wants to talk about, miri, is a reality that from October 2nd – I only put a date – on April 20th they left Catalonia or changed their social, better said... – let's talk..., we follow strictly with language – they changed their social from Catalonia to other places in the State, 3,873 businesses; of these, a thousand of these, they also made a change from their prosecutor. I have the feeling, we have the feeling that you minimize a lot of the consequences of this, a lot. Finally, there's a feeling of: "Listen to me, so, if they've gone that way, you, we don't need them... There's a little music in the government's responses. And what we think is that he should take it with a little serious. First, why do they say, many times, right? , "because if there was a decree that facilitated his escape, he invited, he accelerated.... Miri, listen'm, who does not have the will to leave, not to leave; and who has the will to leave, does so if the conditions are facilitated; it is to say that in the accounts of approving it the board of shareholders makes it the board of directors, so yes, it is a simpler way, but ends up leaving, and who does not have the will does not leave, with decree or without decree. I'm saying that because this has always been an excuse that seems a lot of bad payer to me. And in any case, this decree was approved on very specific terms, when in October there were problems with some companies, especially the banking sector, which, as you know, are regulated in the European sphere, and therefore, here we had to go with it. Among other things, also, with the depositors and with the devices that they had these companies. In any case, they've gone away and changed their social... their prosecutor, some businesses. Also, with this of the figures, we try to explain or tried to explain, also, on behalf of the Government, that it was the fault of 155. We won't agree here either. I think it's important to be honest and take the data and, from '1 to 15 October, seven hundred companies left, or changed their social seven hundred businesses from Catalonia, and from '1 to 31 October, 1,815. In which we carry of year they have remained 665. Therefore, it is clear that from 1 to 15 October and throughout the month of October extraordinary things happened. We won't agree to the motivators. We are convinced that insecurity and political and legal instability have led to this social divide. But, in any case, as if we do not want to debate this issue, what we do today is: "Listen to me, we don't think it can be diminished or minimized. And what we think the government should do is an important analysis of who are the companies that have changed their social and who are their prosecutors. Because there are so many companies that have made it and, therefore, it would be good to know which sector, what size, what bill, if there is an intention to make some more changes... Miri, there are so many companies..., of course there are always rings and grapevines from companies, but we're talking about companies that bill around €44,000_million. This is a generation of brutal wealth for a country. Some, big, small, those who want to, but..., to quote some of our very own: Dogi, Sant Miquel, Planet, Codorniu, Catalana Occident, the Golden Witch, Torras Paper, Gallo... Many great companies, with very important bills, that have changed their social, and some, their prosecutor. Listen to me, businesses generate wealth in a territory, and it has a clear impact, the generation of this wealth, on GDP. When we talk about GDP, therefore, these companies will not be able to charge the wealth, the generation of this wealth, in the GDP. The company tax has now been closed on 31 December 2017. Let's see, when the corporation tax is so much, what happened, because these companies have changed their social and the corporation tax will pay it where they have moved their social. This is an important impact. True, you will say to me: "No, but this is a state tax. Yes, and so much... and when the State comes and negotiates with us the model of finance and analysis which is Catalonia's GDP and which is the impact of the generation of wealth in Catalonia, they see how the ability to charge corporate taxes in Catalonia has gone down. And when we analyze the IRPF, it's going to be the same with those companies that have also changed their prosecutor, because the IRPF will pay him where they have moved theirs. And, therefore, the IRPF of all the workers, will no longer charge Catalonia, with the change of its prosecutors, but will charge itself where it has been transferred. And we go back there when we negotiate with the state, a new model of finance or better in the model of finance, which we both claim the socialists. For example, then, we will find that the government will say to us: « Listen, it has lowered its GDP. The imputation, the corporate tax in Catalonia and the IRPF have gone down. Therefore, we cannot minimize this impact. And what would please us is, quite simply, that it is an analysis, that it is a rigorous study. And, then, a return plan: why don't we want to get back, these so important businesses, that they make so many million euros? It's that we can't hear it – we can't hear it –, I don't know if they're being punished because they think they didn't give them support at a difficult time. But what we believe is that they are important businesses, some more, some less, some bigger, some less, but that would be a lot for us, bearing in mind that this analysis is done and that a return plan is put in place because some of them... I don't talk anymore..., and I know that it has also come out: « Millions of taxes, tax benefits... No, no..., I'm not saying anything about this: a return plan to see how these companies return and generate wealth and jobs in Catalonia. Because, of course, it is true, they say: "No, but they have not changed... It is true, there is no plant that has left Catalonia, no factory that has left; yes, it is true, but the places of..., the decision-making bodies have gone. And in the end, the decision makers have a lot of weight in a company, because, when they're done deciding on investments or they're done deciding on contracts or talent attraction, so, if we're not in Barcelona or we're not in Catalonia, we lose position. And so it seems to us that this is up to us, and we don't think it's so complicated that the government recognizes this and wants to analyze it and make a plan that allows us to return some of these companies, not in the short term, but we can imagine it, but it's over, because, if not, we could have a certain subtraction, in our own years, when we did a finance model negotiation or an analysis of what happened with the corporate tax and with the IRPF charged to Catalonia. For this reason, we did this very quickly the other day to the Committee on Enterprise and Knowledge, but it seems to me that it is important to know, frankly, what the Government is thinking in this regard. They think you're relevancy. And also one last thing: many times when we talk about Catalonia we talk a lot about Barcelona, it's true. Barcelona is a great capital. Who innovates, at these times, in the world, are the cities, but let us not forget that Catalonia is not just Barcelona. And many times when we talk about depopulation, we mean this, that if all investments come to Barcelona we are oblivious to much of the Catalan territory. And when three years ago we asked the Economics Council where was the impact of the investments in Catalonia, the 90_per_cent arrived in Barcelona. This would also have to be reviewed, the Government, because when a company, like Facebook, or Oracle, or some other..., or Moodle, decides to settle in Barcelona, sometimes there is an intervention from the Generality, but many times not. It would be good if there was some intervention, because not all the investments vagina in Barcelona, because, in the end, we also lose competitiveness in other territories. Therefore, we would like to ask the government in this sense, without..., we have said, it is a constructed, positive, not a criticism. I think that in some things we won't agree, especially on why and how, but we do believe that..., how to face the future and how to plan, so, recovery of some points of GDP, which we believe may have gone on these last few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.3.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. To answer the question, has the word Maria Àngels Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.4.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Congresswoman, if you didn't want to talk about the runaway, we didn't talk enough. Look, obviously, it's obvious, and I've always recognized that running away from business has an impact, but it's very... I think it's just, too, making a point and remembering why all these businesses ran away. And that's this October 6th decree, driven by the Spanish government. And it clearly has an effect, this runaway, but it's also very, very clear, the one that was chasing. What kind of company did they leave? We're very clear. Not as long as we don't come back, obviously we want them to come back, there's no problem because they come back. And that's why I've already said, maybe three times, that we're working out the report analyzing who are the companies that have gone, we'll classify them by sectors; we'll also classify which type of companies..., we're about to finish it. And from here, then, we'll start rounds of conversations to see if they can come back. But... just as clearly as I'm telling you this, I'm also telling you that we're not going to offer any favors, any favors, any bonuses because I'm coming back, because I'm coming back to these businesses. Willing? I think that the government's will at that time was all, but not only the government, also the communication media, to emphasize..., yes, to highlight day by day, this flight of entrepreneurs, of data, of catastrophes that came, that accumulated all; and in change, then, the reality, that is very coughing, has given us what amounts of industrial growth, in GDP, in investments, in exports, etc., all positive. So let's not minimize it, but we are well aware of why this escape occurred. It's a clearly political intention, and as such, you can do something too, because that goes back to the way it was: you repeal this decree. Why is this decree created on October 6th? You now have the faculty to repeal it. Obviously, there is a political intention, a very political one. And you said to me, you... you talked about territories and you talked about Catalan businesses... so look at all the elements you've been thinking about, clearly we'd like you to come back; but do you know what the obligation and the main objective of the activity is, in terms of industrial and economic policy, in this government? So our companies, this more than 95_percent of peppers in Catalonia, that represent most of the industrial fabric, that generate occupation, that generate production plants here. And it is precisely in these, in parallel with the conversations that we can have with the rest, in which we will focus all our energies. Why? Because, I have told you, too, many times, we are ahead of a series of global tech reptes, which will transform, not just the business models, but also some economic models. And that's why, because we're worried about companies, especially the peppers, that we want to equip them with tools to help them be competitive. We want to equip them with tools that don't make them stay out of this new paradigm at the economic level. We divide the actions we do for our product fabric into four categories: one, intended to provide more finance, financing facilities; the other, intended to provide tools to facilitate research and innovation; and the other to help them internationalize, and the other to boost them. I will list them, because for me, I repeat it, so much..., not so much, so much more important is to worry about the companies that are here, and parallelly we are already working, without needing the fact that they can return those that have left. Mirin, the activities of industrial policy reactivation we focus on: the first, activation of the inventory of industrial policies, which is already finished, where we will, above all, prioritize the arrival of optical fiber, for the element that I give them, we want to have tools of competitiveness for this new industry 4.0 the combination of enterprises. It is vital that our industrial polygons have all optical fiber. We want to keep industry in Catalonia above all for those companies at risk. There's a whole series of actions going on these past years. We will continue to empower those companies at risk not to tank, or, if they tank or there is danger that tank, that they are possibly, therefore, acquired by companies that want to maintain the industrial activity. Also, for us, it is a priority to maintain instruments for the financing of business growth, both long-term financing, rewarding interests, and downstream mechanisms. We want to drive the transformation of the 4.0 industry with awareness campaigns, infrastructure, coupons, nuclides, Innotec programs, technology and talent training, because we will make our businesses competitive if we make the training and training necessary both for the staff who direct them and for the people who work there. We want to boost technology transfer through Eurecat and Technology Centers. We want to boost innovation and research and innovation and business development through, as I said before, coupons, nuclei and the Innotec program. We want to develop the 3D hub, vital infrastructure also for our competitiveness. We want to boost talent and innovation by moving the Tecniospring line. We want the Catalonia Tech Hub program. We will continue to boost the Catalan startup hub and its international projection, not just Barcelona. We want to balance the territory territorially. That is why, Mrs Romero, when there is an offer or a request for a business location, what we are doing now – now – is to analyse this offer and present it, not only do they meet the criteria of the company that we ask for possible locations – obviously, many of them, as you can imagine, in areas close to the city of Barcelona – but we distribute them territorially. Therefore, this is an action that must also, sooner or later, have its results. We want to boost the technical office of international public contract, because not only the big companies – also the peppers, small and medium-sized companies – can access international contracts or offers. We want to strengthen the activity of the external and investment offices. We say: 20 percent of the foreign investments that come to Catalonia come through these offices. We'll keep it strong. We want to work for the accreditation of support agents to internationalization, coupons to internationalization, enhance the attraction of foreign investments, increase the base of companies that internationalize, classify and diversify markets, cluster policies, and, obviously, as it cannot otherwise be in this new context, promote alternative financing formulas, because many times, and very small enterprise, so you have locked the door to the financed markets. So, with all this listing I've been thinking about now, it's here– and I'd like to have talked a lot more about this, than about the companies that have run away – where we'll focus our policies, our actions, because the business texture, the fabric production is this. This is what we need to help be more and more competitive. On the subject you were thinking: "They don't want them to come back or so much. I'll say it again: we'd like you to come back, but we won't do you any favors. Shall we talk about it? And as long as we talk about it. But it's obvious that when they left, they had a clear political intent, maybe we wouldn't just convince them. The best we can do for productive businesses to come back here is to offer the maximum of conditions for them to be competitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's now the reply of Mrs Romero's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.6.0	Thank you, Counselor. Let us wait with candles for this report on the analysis of the companies that have changed their social and fiscal in Catalonia. I hope that they will come and present us to the Commission of Enterprise and Knowledge, if not, we will ask them to do so. And I hope that analysis brings us back to a return plan. Because you, in your music, in your whole, show a certain decrease for the companies that have left, and that can't be. That is to say, "we will not do them any favor, no, but if they have left or changed their social 3,800 businesses and 1,000 have changed their prosecutor, it would be good if they returned. Because many of them were born here, like Planet – now I see the Councillor of Culture. Home, please, don't use this all, with this feeling less, because it seems to me that it's not good for anyone. Listen to me, you say this all went through a decree. Look, all this happened because September 6th and 7th here broke the law. [[Greetings.]] You have loaded the Statue – the Statue. And businesses, above all, what they need... – and you know very well, what you see from this sector – need legal security and political security, enabled, and they didn't give them to Catalonia. And, therefore, some of them preferred to change their social systems before they generated more problems in their future. That was what happened. And I'm telling you one thing, I think this decree doesn't have to be touched, because if we want businesses to come back, we won't hurt them. If there are now any people who want to come back, do away with board of directors or stockholders, we will still harm them and complicate their lives! Let them return – let them return –, please, the more, the better. That's what we want. Therefore, this decree should not be repealed. Maybe we make it clear, because sometimes we cheat on the lonely too. Look, you know how hard I can say it there, counselor, but you did a phone book, as Pujol said, and you made the same speech and said the same things the president said but a few years ago here. It is that what we would like is to listen to what priorities, what country they want, where they will pose... – I use a language, yes, a language..., yes – where they will put the garrofes, you? Because we're talking about everything in the end. No, we're talking about everything, no; we're going to bet on three things; we're going to bet on industry 4.0, on digitalization and artificial intelligence, or we're going to bet a little bit on everything? It is that, in the end, the National Pact for Industry, which was approved, which they signed with social and economic agents, not with Parliament... The Parliament pushed this pact forward, demanded that it is faith, but we did not sign it, nor vote, nor define it. Because, let's face it, we're the only one we've done is go to the presentation courtesy, but it's 1,800_million euros in four years for industrial policies. We think we'll need a lot more resources and we want to make clear bets. And if we really want Catalonia to be a pioneer with artificial intelligence or industry 4.0, doing what we're already doing doesn't seem, honestly – or with a little bit more effort – what we think Catalonia needs. Beyond what we spoke before, the change of their social partners, we believe we need clear bets. You're talking about innovation. Miri, the year 2010 we dedicated 1.7 of GDP to innovation; now we dedicate 1.46. We've been going back! So, we want to make a bet, how many million euros do we put in it? Because in the end, political priorities can only be assessed if we have resources in the assumptions. I want to know if this government – if this government – will bet on knowledge; for example, if it will put 100_million euros for universities, if it will put 500_million euros to really strengthen the industry with these reptiles that it has in advance. That's what I'd like to know, not the list of actions, which is clear that they do, not you, all the departments of this government. We want to know which bets, I told him in the committee and it seems to me that's exactly what's missing from this government. Talk about infrastructure. It's just that they haven't had any strategic infrastructure in the last few years. Head of Catalonia, head – head. Industrial polygons, as long as we're talking about it! I was told by the company of the Seu d'Urgell: "Which rhythm? When will he get up there? So, well, I don't know. Honestly, strategic bets with stocks and assumptions. And that's what we haven't seen. Talk about energy. Energy is very important for businesses, it is a very high cost for businesses. We're the last ones in the state with renewable energies. It's that we hear a lot about the Energy Transition Pact, but we're the last ones with renewable energies. Clearly, in the end one thinks if we're really betting or, as Pujol said, women phone lists that really show that they're doing things. Obviously, they do things, but we think we need to do strategic things and decide where to put the resources. And that's what we honestly didn't just see. He was talking to you about financing businesses. Home, therefore, the ICF in the past few years has devoted less resources to financing the peppers as well. And if we compare it to the assumptions of the year 2010-2012, you'll see how the download is almost half. That's to say that they do things, but we're not asking for things to be done, we're asking for an ambitious vision of the country, for us to know who this country's priorities are and how I don't have to bet on everything, so we have to decide which three things Catalonia wants to take flags for. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's the councillor's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.8.0	Thank you. You're talking about underprivileged. Do you know who's the bigger guy that they're doing with this speech? The fan, the underdog, our peppers. I have made it clear to you, whether you like it or not, whether you convince it or not: we want to have tools to compete with our corporate fabric, big, but above all peas. Why? Because they have fewer resources to invest, they have fewer training opportunities, they have fewer opportunities to adopt the tools that lead them to be competitive in this new 4.0 industry. If that sounds like it, to you, it's not a priority or it's a report, if we want to start detailing. I'm starting to explain that it's the blockchain, that it's the Internet of Things, and all the action sequence. You have and have very clearly described in the National Pact for Industry... – which I see now..., I don't know if I just convinced you, but – you have the performances, you have the axes, you have the strategic axes, you have who does everything and you have the presuppositional assignment, and you have the indicators. It's not vague people all that's left behind. It's more, this past year, despite all the difficulties, we're at a compliment index of over 78_per_cent. And this is proven and this is explained in the Catalan Business Council. Therefore, vagueness or things that are already being done, yes, but it has materialized in the indicators and complements of the National Pact for Industry. And that's concrete measures, and that's not going anywhere. And that's concrete. Look at the pact, look at the results that have all indicators compliment. And here you can tell me whether we're completing or not, and whether we're executing or not. It's about polygons. Look, in all these years, this past year was the first time he's ever locked up these hundreds of polygons, with more than 1,300 polygons registered. Why do you know what? Everyone was talking about polygons, but we didn't have any data on urbanization, about the level of occupation, about the level of optical fiber or energy rise. It's the first time, in a long time, that we have these data. From here on out, what do we have? I would like to make this clear: we will be able to legislate together with the Department of Territory on the issue of polygons; obviously, it will be warm, but we have no data. He talks to us, too, about research and innovation reversal data. Miri, last week he was presenting the annual report of the chamber of commerce, and you know what? In research and innovation topics there were some red numbers, but it was not on the part of the Public Administration, and it became very clear and stressed. Because one of the questions was the level dedicated to research and innovation. So much good, so much more presupposition! In this, therefore, so much good, when we talk about finance issues, about resources, so much good in fessin', because that means executing them and applying them to concrete policies. I told them that, precisely, that report – I don't know – is talking about that you're afraid of research and innovation is companies where it's a pending assignment. Obviously, the public sector can be improved. This is what it is and it was presented to the report, whether it pleases you or not, at that time it was not indicated as red ash the one that did..., therefore, the one that is ugly from the Generality of Catalonia. Precisely because of this, because companies still cannot revert to the whole market this innovation, because the search that is being made still has to be much more applicable to the market, precisely because of this there are all the tools that I have described, that are not generic, that are very concrete. And, again, we'll prioritize our business fabric and prioritize it too if they want to get those businesses back. But I'm sure you're the one who is the majority of companies when you get this report. And we see what kind of companies they are – you know who they are –, they are companies above all IBEX, very much under regulation by the Spanish government. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I, from here... – yes, sir – from here we will see what his plan is. As long as he's talking about the plan, what's his plan? I'll meet up there and talk. And obviously, we'll look at how they can come back here, but there's a will... I'm going back to say, when there's a clear political will behind, our will still feels..., they're invited to come, yes, but our job is to ensure that our country's business fabric remains competitive. And this is our priority and here we will focus a lot and a lot of our efforts. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the social, economic and labour consequences of the tourism model]] [[300-00019/12]] Let's now move on to the next inquiry, which is about the social, economic and labor consequences of the tourism model, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. The word has the lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.10.0	Well, good afternoon to all of you. Today, as has been said, the CUP - Crida Constituent we want to talk about the tourism model, because we are concerned, because the situation that we see in the country considers it difficult. And I'll try to explain to you why and put forward some proposals to unravel what we think is a myth, the myth of tourism. We want to signify the neoliberal drift of which for you, Government, seems to be the hen of the golden eggs. We place tourism as a problem, yes, I insist, a problem caused by the continued extractive and speculative, territorial, social and economic activity, before which we understand that the only alternative can only be the touristic decline. And, therefore, we understand that the decline in the material sphere of the economy is not an option but an obligation. I hope none of you deny that we live globally with less energy, with less material, with less water, because we are basically doing everything; resources are running out. I understand we'd agree on that, don't we? For this reason, there has been a lot of us, our lives, trying to learn how to make an economy and get the benefits and services we need using less energy, less water and less materials. I think it's a flattering logic. And the question we ask ourselves is: "What is the government doing in this sense? So, from our point of view, the government and most of you live trapped in a dream, in the dream of perpetual progress, in the dream of only material and technical conception of progress as well as prosperity based on having more money, more investments, more GDP. His dream is a bad dream when they are unable to recognize the weakness of capitalist planning. We understand tourism as one of the expressions of this senile capitalism, and we raise the imperative need to break this logic. And all this is what we tell them as we've told them many other times, but these concrete questions are given to them concretely on May 31, 2017 since this very event, in an inquiry that ended in a motion that most of you, almost all parliamentary groups, to say the least, dropped, rejected. And that's why we put it back on the table, because we understand that it's urgent, it's essential, and maybe at some point we've changed their minds. They rejected it because, we understand, they consider themselves more accepting, as the Garcés Navy says, the condition of accepting that we can only live produced dead. This reality is the most overwhelming thing of our century; the potential of the hermitage as the space of life. I'll try to explain what this means in relation to tourism. We, however, the anti-capitalists, the ecologists, the feminists, the humanists, do not want to resign ourselves to their option because we know that in the herm– in the herm– life does not grow, and that is why we are fighting, and now and here in the Catalan Countries this struggle goes inextricably to reflect around the tourist model that can be found from their miscarriages. From the macro-economic point of view, and if we do a simple analytics of these data, as they get used to doing, even though they pull the dishes between you, Ciutadans, PDECAT and the PSC have a very similar look of what economy and tourism means – don't be fooled –; we could say, with this macro-economic point of view, that the tourism sector is still good news, that it works wonders, that everything is correct and that is good for the country, right? The Catalan Countries set up a territory of first tourist destination, and Catalonia, in the State, is the first destination in the first visit of foreigners. Good. We could talk about the number of places, the number of nights; we could give the travel figures, the tourist spending, but I won't talk about it all because I'm sure this will do the advice much better than I am, because it's his specialty. We would agree, too, that the data does not show us reality but help to hear it from different prisms. The apologia of the monoculture of tourism know that to generate the same level of annual touristic entrances they need to move every year more tourists. Perhaps that's why from its governments the expansion of the Creuerist sector to the principality of Catalonia is potent. Only in Barcelona the number of passengers has multiplied since 1997, it has multiplied a lot, and reached the xifra record of 2,7_million creueristas in 2016. This trend is linked to its proposals, such as the call for the construction of the new F terminal in the port of Barcelona. And this government is also extending this model to the ports of Roses, Palamós, Vilanova; they want to extend it throughout the country. Since the CUP - Crida Constituent, we understand this logic framed in public policies that drive a tourism model based on the privatization of the winnings in few hands and the socialization of the losers with an overly negative impact on the conjunction of the city. Some examples, because'mva' run out of time. Impacts on working conditions. Have any of you, any of you present, ever worked in the tourism sector? Owners, hotel shareholders, bars, restaurants don't count. Has anyone had to hang out or hang out in the summer in Peniscola? Has anyone cleaned rooms in hotels in Roses? Has anyone been resting on a super in Palma? I am, and so is my mother. Jo soc de l'Empordà, of a territory on the impact of tourism on the territory, on the coast, on the lives of people, on the habitation is brutal. So I know very well what I'm talking about, because I've seen a crowded landscape and a beautiful sea for some precarious conditions. Therefore, if anyone of you also knows this reality, you must know that the working conditions of the tourism sector are precarious: below low, brutal days, without minimum conditions. I imagine they have to think that these are the theses of these radical phobic tourism. But it is not that we say it, but that the Tourism Sector Report 2026, prepared for the Government of Catalonia, literally says: "The sector is characteristic from a labor point of view for a low quality of work places and a high degree of seasonality. So, the mountain and the wide range of work that the tourist sector brings us? Liar. The impact on the territory. I haven't done a little bit about what it does to my territory, the Empordà, but that's what we can extrapolate to the entire coast of the Catalan Countries. You know better than that I that tourism generates high environmental and territorial impacts, with high water consumption, we have already said, of energy, lock in there the splint of the water resources of the Ter and the Ebre. The golden hen has turned the Catalan Countries into a destination for sun and platja tourism. Good. Do you know that, except for the Jew, they've urbanized 70 percent of the principality's landings? This time it is so exciting that anyone with a little consciousness and esteem for the territory should be asking themselves: "But what has caused this? How did we get here? So this environmental, landscape and vital drama isn't a regression that's got somewhere right now and here, but it's actually the effects of a history that goes from the far; it's the effects of what the project of global and neoliberal capitalism has been about on the living conditions of the planet. And you're accomplices. This dystopic reality that has been brought about in good measure for the tourism trade – not only – and the business alliances of the totxo and the policies have led to a brutal degradation of coastal spaces. There has been much talk of the impact on housing, and the city of Barcelona is not an example. We understand that the city is for whom it lives and the coast for whom it is valued and saved. But let's see some examples of this predatory tourism policy, and then I'll be more entertained in the next intervention. For example, the Circuit de Catalunya was rescued with €7.5 million in 2016 and €2.5 million already paid or rescued in 2015. Ski slopes: six of the principality's new alpine ski trails have been rescued by the Generality, and especially since Convergence and Union – now the PDECAT – entered the Government in 2010. From then on, we have not rescued four, between 2011 and 12; basically: five tracks are from Railways of the Generalitat – Vall de Núria, La Molina, Espot, Port Ainé, Vallter 2000– and one is capitalized through Avançsa, this company that is theoretically dedicated to industrial promotion, which remained 3,7_million euros to rescue it, but which has once let it run to a private company. Well, you know what this is all about. And surely you are also asked..., if we plant an alternative model to this one, you must ask: "Without tourism, what will we live from? And we say that we need to reflect on the role that the European Union has reserved for the periphery of Europe, that is to say, the Catalan countries; it has reserved for us a transformation of the service sector and in particular tourism to the detriment of the sectors that any economic thinking would consider strategic: agriculture, industry, energy and finance; people aged, reception of tourism and remoteness from industry and other strategic sectors. Tourism generates wealth, they say. Depén. In the case of the Catalan Countries, we have already said that very little. The main reason: the poverty subsidies that are paid to people who work in the sector. I get here and I will continue on the next turn of intervention to continue developing this mythical idea about tourism. I take advantage of the last few seconds to, from here, show, from the CUP - Constituent Creed, all our solidarity with the photojournalist Jordi Borràs, who yesterday was attacked by the fascism; a photojournalist who combined compromise and professionalism to uncover and unmask the fascism of the extreme right and to explain very well the links between the extreme right of this country and the Catalan Civil Society. Then I'll keep talking about tourism. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word "Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.12.0	Yes; thank you very much. If I've understood correctly, instead of improving or seeing what we can do to change the tourism model, eliminate it, eliminate it at all, eliminate productive activity... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes; for, of course, it is the mother of all demons. Miri, I think that, out of respect for the occupation and the GDP that it generates, huh? As a matter of fact, what we're going to have to do is... And it's true – we'll talk about it now, too – that there are aspects to improve, but demonizing the tourism sector, forgiving, that we don't share people or people. By the way, you're talking about whether we've worked in the tourism sector. Miri, so we have worked in the industrial sector, too, and precisely because of this we want an inclusive, sustainable industry, based on competitiveness and not exploiting prices. And this is the model that we can also transfer to tourism. That's why we want another model. So, instead of banishing him, what we want to do is improve him, knowing that he creates some problems – now we will talk about it – but moving from one extreme to the other seems, therefore, that he does not touch. It also seems to us that demonizing for itself the productive economy... is that, if not, what social policies will we do? With five tickets? Why are we taking tickets to make social policies? They're from the productive economy, which I know, I don't know. I think that's something I wanted to comment on too. Well, from the tourism model that this government is advocating, we'll know more and more about it in a little while when we plant the strategic tourism platform, so that the other day there were some features. And obviously, just as you do serve words, so can we. The issue of sustainability is not excluded from them, forgive them, we can also integrate them, and we will show them that we can do it. It gave a strategic platform of tourism with criteria of environmental, economic, social and cultural sustainability that generate quality occupation. That's what we said the other day, too, but it looks like if they say it, it's unbelievable and if they say it, it's not. Well, we'll see about that. Also a model that favors temporal redistribution– temporal–, decentralisation of activity to the interior and stimulates territorial rebalancing. Because we are aware of the diversity of the country, we are very and very aware, and it is not all plagiarism tourism. Therefore, we do not assume that because he hasn't read it yet or we haven't done it at all what is our strategic tourism platform of this government – he also asks us to follow suit, because it's just one and a half months ago that we are; of this government. What model, big deal, is that what we're advocating as a government for the tourism sector? Therefore, in a tourism sector that can integrate a significant part of Catalonia's economic structure, an 11_per_cent of GDP, a rich opportunity generator, and that is defenceless from the public sector – because we defend it, yes; this is not as black as you paint it, because we want to and aspire to another –; a sector that defines its development according to the criteria of environmental, economic, social and cultural sustainability; a model that generates quality and fair remuneration; a model that favours temporal redistribution, decentralisation of the business environment, and that stimulates the territorial equilibrium, but does not fail to think about or attend to the extraordinary activity that involves the Catalan coastline; a model that defines the activity of the economy as a whole; a model of the economy as a destination of the country; It made us fully aware that this tourism sector has to evolve and improve in some respects, and obviously one is the employment contract, we are very and very conscious. To donate data, or I'm sure it'll take you, but the percentage of salary level up, sometimes, to 30_percent of the other subs in other sectors. We are also aware of the precarious working conditions in this sector. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Obviously, we're going to have to take action, and we're going to work together with ours... with the Occupational Counselorship, because it's an issue we're worried about, and it's going to take care of. We are also aware that there has been an overexploitation. And it is in this sense that we also want to work for this regulation decree on some touristic aspects, such as, therefore, shared lars or simply some litigation. Because, I told you before, the issue of sustainability – and that's what we defend in the tourism model – is not just its heritage, as much as you wander it over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. We need to correct some of the defects, some of the deficiencies that our model has, but social, cultural, environmental and economic sustainability, these principles are not excluded. We want to integrate them into our strategic Pla of tourism. And I'm going to say it again: let's not neglect a sector that employs a lot of people. The job insecurity is high, it's true, but it takes up a lot and a lot of people, and, if not – you yourself are asking the question – the whole sector, a 14_percent of the active population there is now, where would you work? Does he make any alternative proposals to this model? Yeah? A 14_percent of the activity is a lot. Therefore, I say to him, "Yes, we must improve things. I, no, a not huge to banish tourism as the sector. Because he lives a lot of people, thanks to him he also generates a lot of wealth, and obviously this model of exploitation that you were describing doesn't fit with many and many small business initiatives, that are adopting, not only the new technologies, but we models of customer-supplier relationship, established tourism. And that's where we're going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. Again, for the reply, it's the return of the deputy, Mrs. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.14.0	Well, thank you, Counselor. His answer was very kind, and I don't know who's demonizing who, too, should ask. We do not demonize tourism, but make a material analysis of its impact on the working conditions, on the territory, and, concretely, on the coast of this country, and also on the 'living'. So, from this material analysis, we understand that we are in a situation of gravity. That's why we're vehement. And you don't intend to demonize what we're basically doing with an analysis of the real situation. We know that they will not convert from their government to this country, nor will they move it to a socialist country, nor will we smile at these four deputies of capitalism. We know that very well. What we ask of them is that they become aware of the reality of this country, of the reality and the material conditions of life of the workers and the workers, of how the territory and, concretely and especially, the coastline is coming together. As with the Circuit de Catalunya, which more than ever has lost, for example, it would not be better to invest these millions of euros in a real industrialisation plan in Vallès to recycle, encourage industrialisation, reindustrialisation, recycle industrial spaces that are obsolete or underutilised, or simply are not used. Or, on all the investments they have made – they have rescued ski slopes – would it not be better than, in terms of rescuing the climate change with snow cannons, to invest all this money in the effective promotion of the people who live in the territory with activities such as rowing, forest management or conservation of natural spaces and biodiversity? Or, all the bad business they've done to benefit the Box, with the purchase of a toxin land for which they named Barcelona World and now called Hard don't-see-what, Hard Rock... wouldn't it be better to dedicate it to more truly respectful economic models with life? And I knew perfectly well..., I said to him: without tourism, what will we live on? We understand that it is obvious that the push of wages could fix one of the negative externalities of tourism: precariousness. But the rest would continue to exist: the love of housing, the depersonalization of barrels, gentrification, the economic pressure. And to give an answer to these facts, let's think of a touristic decline, not an elimination, not an implosion of tourism, please, don't demonize us, we make a proposal, it's the decrease, it's theorized, I can read it. But who is asking this will be automatically questioned with the question that asked him: why do we live without tourism? In a city like ours, frightened by the crisis, by the strength that it has left and by the record of everything that has been lost in the last decades, to raise the need to decrease in a certain economic sector must go accompanied by an alternative, sense of doubt. But there is also a consideration to be made from the left: creating jobs is a political decision and not just a function of the private enterprise. We don't have to look as long as we can offer the foreign markets, but think about the needs of the internal market, and put people to work to give them an answer. The idea of creating jobs as political decision-making is what we have. Masters, reduction of ration to schools. More teachers, more help for the aged population, more cultural workers; it would also help create work places to reduce working hours. We bring a new world to our hearts, and perhaps make proposals that the private enterprise would not like. These measures, accompanied by decent wages, of the struggle against tax fraud suppose an empowerment of the internal market that would far exceed the income from tourism. You don't have to accompany companies in designing work policies, you have to do work policies. It's not the private sector that has to have this exclusivity, and I've talked a lot about the golden hen. I don't know if they know this account. I have the feeling that you think the golden egg hen is tourism. The farmer who had this golden hen, who every day made him an or, couldn't sleep. I'm explaining the count, she'll advise, if she cares. I couldn't sleep thinking like I did that chicken to get those golden bears, which I understand is you think it's tourism. He couldn't sleep until one day he went away, thought he had a machine that generated gold eggs in him and grabbed the chicken and took it home to try to pull that gold egg machine, and, basically, what they did was kill the chicken and the gold eggs gave up, his greed meant that there was no more gold. The hen of the golden eggs is not the business of tourism, madame will advise, and the rest of the deputies and deputies, the real hen of the golden eggs, the real wealth of this country is its people, its labor traditions, its territory, its landscape, its rights: life, in short.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.15.0	Mrs. Sànchez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.16.0	With their cowardice, they're blind and they want to kill the chicken thinking it's gonna have gold eggs forever, and it's a completely out of date model. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.17.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.18.0	All right. The golden hen... so, look, did you notice that there's a fear of what we've agreed on? , have we agreed on what we want a sustainable tourism model? Yeah. That it integrates the territory, yes; cultural sustainability, yes; territorial sustainability, yes. We agree. What's going on is that, this permanent speech, this permanent speech... , this permanent speech that..., demonitzant, now they love them, huh? , assign us, so, well, you will follow..., I think I will continue with mine, and mine speaks with many words that coincide with what you said. And even though we don't believe it, we're concerned about this, and neither gold chickens nor anything, here what we believe is... One, first difference, we believe that the productive economy, the non-exploiting productive economy and..., the productive economy of quality generates wealth. Because to do all these social policies that you were thinking about: hospitals, schools..., I don't know, the wealth has to come out of something..., if we don't have to do another kind of account where miraculously the money went out. So, miri, they come out of the productive economy. What do we want? So look, we want, like many of you, a productive economy that is inclusive, sustainable, competitive, intelligent, with quality jobs. We want the same, because, yes, sir, we care about the people, we care about the territories. You can say that I don't have the right to say what I'm worried about, what this government is worried about, and we're also worried about the people, the territories. That's why we're presenting projects, even though some words, I repeat, they don't come close to them, they share. We have to share. We share many of the ideas that would warm up in this country. And one of them is the inn in value, I repeat, of the acts, of the cultural activism, the social activism, the people, their land. That's precisely why – and even though you don't like us talking about this all – that's precisely why we make a strategic tourism plan that integrates all these aspects. Talk about it when you read it. I'll talk to you when we start doing what we do. And look, there have been some rescues, yes. You explain it to all the people who worked, people from the land who worked in these ski resorts, for example, yes. You explain to them that we're tanking them and losing all the jobs, did you explain it to them? Of course we have to take action to make it better and make it all go away again. And obviously we don't like massaging and speculation either. But, unlike what you propose, these abstract and sounding phrases, there is a moment that needs to be managed, and it needs to be put into action, which is why I said it: the strategic plan. When they read it, when they know it – and they won't be long – from here, they think, that they are fine and that they are not. Then we'll do the set-up, and from here we'll run. It is then – it is then – when they can say: "Ostres, here they have prioritized this and this other model. Don't explain the history to me because we are also aware of the problems that have arisen. I told you before, we are aware... no, it's nothing to accept that there have been mistakes, there are things that fail in this model, but we have clear support for the sector, but not in abstract, but in concrete terms. And in this model, I think we'd agree a lot more than you think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the poor child]] [[300-00020/12]] The next question is about the poor child, presented by the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem. Exhibits the inquiry Ms. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.20.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, how unequal and how poor are we prepared to bear with society? And how inefficient are the social public policies that try to deal with it are we willing to deal with and until when? That's what this inquiry was about. This is why, focusing on the most striking and unbearable part of this inequality that we suffer as a society: the poor child. About a third of our infants are at risk of poverty. It's been years since the economic crisis started. We have general, optimistic messages about the current economic situation and in change the poor child not only continue to feel important but to grow up. The last survey of living conditions, that of the year 2017, which was made public a few weeks ago by the Idescat, tells us that the year passed the risk of poor children reached 28.5_percent of the population under the age of seven. It's 4.5_per_cent more than the previous year. That's why he said to them: "About one third of our infants are at risk of poverty. They're close to 400,000 affected infants. They're scratching figures, I'm sure they're all, and they'd still have to scratch us more if we took into account that it's the population that suffers the highest risk rate of poverty, and with a difference. The adult population between the ages of seventeen and sixty-four has a poverty risk of 19_per_cent. Among the great people the risk of poverty is 15.5_per_cent. The risk of poverty among infants is double. All this is not the result of chance, nor is it only the result of the economic crisis. It is the fruit, of course, of public policies for childhood that are weak and ineffective. They are weak because, while we have legislation fully aligned with the Children's Rights Convention, we have the Children's Pact, we have the Parliament's Committee on Children, we have the Council for Children, we have the Council for Children, we have the Council for Children, we have the Council for Children, right? , an adjunct to the syndic on childhood... Many elements, many tools that would make us think that as a society we are prioritizing support for childhood; in change, public investment is not corresponding to this priority. In investing in social protection for children and families respect Catalan GDP we are one-third of the European average. During the past few years, the Catalan public investment has been 0.8, 0.9_percent of Catalan GDP in child protection. Along with this 2,4_per_cent of the European media, which is what we all aspire to. But it's that, besides, this little public investment in child protection is inefficient. It's weak and inefficient. Inefficient because social transfers, when it is measured what risk of the poor have reduced, show us that in the case of childhood we are absolutely inefficient. We get that the poor child is reduced after social transfers by 25_per_cent. In change, among the great people, of the majors of sixty-five years the social transfers lowered the risk of poverty by 82_per_cent, 25_per_cent reduction, 82_per_cent reduction. In other words, the collection of the great people and the social policies that apply to the collection of the great people are successful. On the other hand, it is clear that the public policies that we are protecting children are not well addressed. It's all data that shows us a reality: we're not protecting the rights of the most vulnerable people, the rights of the childhood that is patenting the risk of poverty. But it's that, besides, we're not protecting as our own future as society and as the country. Because the poor in childhood is not only a violation of the rights of the present, but it is a poverty and exclusion for the future, because they have many opportunities to be poor or excluded in the future. The less opportunities a child has, the harder it will be to develop its full potential. Many of these data – many more data – show that the poor woman inherits herself, that being a poor child and conditions her to be a poor adult, and that, therefore, if we do not do so, we would not only be normalizing today's poor child, but we would be normalizing the poor adult tomorrow. For us this reality is neither acceptable nor normalizable. If we keep doing the same thing that's been done so far, counselor, it won't change the result. So, to what extent is he willing, counselor, to radically change the course of this reality? , radically changing public policies that are a fan of child protection? If not, we will continue to have the same reality; we will be shown the data of everything that has happened in the last few years. What do you want me to do? So, I can't make it up; I can see what has been successful in other countries and I can listen to entities, collectors and institutions working with vulnerable people in Catalonia, and especially children. And they all say the same thing: money bets, money bets, money bets for housing, money bets for health and money bets for education. Brave public investment in these aspects that affect childhood. Turn it off. All entities and institutions tell us the same – Fedaia, Pincat, Save the Children, Caritas, UNICEF, the Syndic of Greuges – "You need a child's allowance for the child's ownership of the child. It's complicated. It's a brave bet. Economics. Barcelona City Council does and does not have the skills. If you want, you can do this: radically change the focus of social policies to care for children; end the present inequalities of this childhood, but also the future inequalities of the adult population. Habitat. With lower returns and higher counterparts, the Catalan families have each couple of less income. It causes families with more vulnerability to be forced to share overworked floors, to occupy illegally, or even to suffer from misdemeanours. These situations involve significant risks for the physical, cognitive and emotional development of infants, who live in anguish, anguish, instability, often without having a suitable space to study, relax or play alone. This ends up having health problems, too. We have hard problems in mental health. The Aquas – the same government –, the Agency of Quality and Health Assessment – the Aquas – tells us: "Three, and even four, multiply the problems of mental health among the under fifteen years old in a poor situation. All this obviously reverses also later on in healthcare spending by the Administration. The plot is in the extreme and in the little attention that can be given from the same family to these infants, because all the attention is directed to the most basic: eating and living somewhere. Teaching – there is the counselor here too. Obviously, we need to fight against school segregation, we need a very strong zero-three bet – to talk about it in this Ple from a young man from my Jesuit companion Albiach – but not only that, education went much further than schooling. School holidays and out-of-school activities are a brutal focus on increasing inequalities. Either we make a brave bet for the access of all these children who don't have, their families, returns to be able to access extracurriculars or activities in the holiday periods, and to beggars– also in the holiday periods–, or we are increasing this focus of inequality that are the holiday periods, that are the extracurricular activities. Twenty per cent of children under the age of seven years cannot make educational experiences outside the school hours due to income issues. A 37_per_cent of Catalan children and adolescents cannot afford a week's holiday away from home for income reasons. Well, I said to them: "Hi, live, teach. There are many more examples. What's going on with the food? With the excess of feet? , very marked for food, very marked for the quality of food and for the family's income issue. And it is the main problem of health that we have in our health care system today: the diseases resulting from excess weight – in childhood, but especially after that, when they are adults. We really want to invest not only in removing inequalities, but also in reducing public spending on present and future. Okay. All the indicators tell us that in Catalonia every time there are more poor children; that we have problems in the present, but that they will be problems of the future, and that they will not invest in childhood, it is not only not to comply with the Convention of the Rights of the Infants, not to complete with the same laws approved for the Parliament of Catalonia, but that, moreover, it is an injustice and is little intelligent for the consequences it entails; a cohesive society has fewer social problems and less social spending. How long does this situation have to go on until you're caught up with it once in a while? How many children, how many children, how many more teenagers will see their rights threatened by poverty and inequality? Do we understand this situation, Counselor? Are we brave not to repeat the same policies that fail? Are you willing to start doubling the investment in childhood, the percentage of catalan GDP that is destined for the protection of childhood? If we don't start here, nothing will be credible. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.21.0	To answer, the word has the counselor, Mr. Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.22.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, councillor, deputy, deputy... deputy Ribas, look, look, look. [[the Councillor riu]] – there is trust, the vein has come out... –, we will start from where I think we have to start, from where I think it would not be honest not to start, that it is accepting that there is a problem, accepting that there is a reality that needs to be confronted: recognizing that one_of_each_four infants and adolescents is at risk of poverty, and that this affects – the risk situation – also emotional development, opportunities, and cultural learning and the salvation of these infants. The risk of poorness is intrusive. And it's also overwhelming for a question, for a key question that also explains the design of the department that I'm assigned to coordinate. One of the key aspects – and I will go into depth – is that it explains the quality of the job market. This is one of the essential elements. Because, in the end, the quality of the work of the pairs, the seas, and the quality of the conditions with which they face the world of work, explains the poor situation of the infants. And the other element that is key – and you have placed it; besides, I had the same data prepared for the situation – is that there is a problem around some of the drawings in infant policies, because they do not give the social transfers that are given in any of the other areas. And that's real. And I won't repeat the data you gave, because you had the same example between the large population and the policies for infants. Because this difference, « very, very worryingly, « weighs in. I will also add another repte, Mrs Ribas – I will add another repte. And the companies and companies of this Parliament that were at my appearance at the committee and that have been following this month and two weeks, not above, of responsibility in coordinating this department, know that I am very, very concerned, and that it is one of the themes that I think is a topic that goes beyond the General Directorate for Children and Adolescents, it goes beyond the Department of Treball, Social Affairs and Families, it goes beyond the Government of the Generality; it's a challenge that we have in the country. And it's protection for all teenagers and young migrants without family references. This is one of the other great reptes that we have as the country and that we have to approach, and that is a global repte – global. I'm adding this. From here, we share a part of his exhibition. I'll also tell him I've found something missing that I think is key to working around this time. You have placed four: rendering, housing, education and salvation. And I think there's a missing element that's key, that's families, that's family politics. And I don't think we need to talk about families, about the great diversity of family types that exist in our society; about the most vulnerable and the weakest are the mono-marentals; about how we respond especially to children who see situations of male violence on their doorsteps. I mean, I don't think we need to be made up for talking about family policies. And I think it's also one of the other areas where we need to do it. And you don't have to do us for it. I think that for a long time we have thought that talking about family policies... – and I use plural because it's nomenclature and because we defend it and it has meaning – for a long time we have thought it was carcass, talking about family policies. And you're not – you're not. Yes, whenever you consider the plurality of families in this society and this diversity. From here on, around this aspect and other aspects that we could discuss, with some elements around the legislative capacity shortages that we have, I think it has placed various aspects that I will address quickly. One. In the educational sphere. I believe that... Here we have Councillor Bargalló; Councillor Bargalló has already set it up, and I believe that it is one of the elements that must help us around the work against the risk of poor children, and it is the will that the Councillor has publicly shown – and this Government by extension – of universal access to zero-three-year education, which must facilitate us – eines – because it is not reproduced – you have not used this term concretely – inequalities that come from origin. And this is one of the key aspects. And the figure that we also need to keep up – and I follow with the Department of Education – is the 118,100 feeding school scholarships that are donated, which represent a good economic injection – representing 74_million euros. And here we have to work. I think we've been looking and we've been finding each other... and here too, and I remember, last year's legislature, how we've been generating that the coverage of these scholarships has been extended and that we've addressed all the risk situations. You have also placed it in the matter of salvation. And I believe that here there is a clear scope, that it is the integral platform for promoting health through physical activity and food. He has placed it: childhood obesity is a sign of poor risk. Although some people might think it's a contradiction, no, not much less a contradiction. It's a reality. And here we have to work. For the part that I am closer directly in the department, I believe that there are various areas. I've already assigned him one of the key areas for us, which are work policies. How do we want to deal with it? Let's face it from two points of view. One, from active occupation policies. Currently what we have done in the programming is to design the programming in such a way that four of each of the euro that is destined for active employment policies is very vulnerable. And among these, the priorities are the children's collections. But we could also put other examples, very concrete examples that may seem small drops in the sea, but which have an impact. I want to highlight the SOC program for victims of male violence, because they usually have children in charge. And this, what it allows, is a contract. And what it allows is, to the collection still more vulnerable, to give it support. I think we need to work in this area. And then the other key, which is the quality of the job. I've said this publicly, I think on three or four occasions since I'm a counselor, and I'm sure we share this, and I'm sure we share it with a large part of the chamber. We are all aware that there have been very powerful mechanisms of labour market precariousness, such as labour reforms? So close to facing these mechanisms, close to changing them – I have asked for it publicly and I will continue asking for it – because it will help us, it will help us to have these tools. And, if not, while we're working with union agents and economic agents around the tool that we have, which is the social dialogue and is the capacity for concertation. The appropriate collections have the capacity of standard; we have the Board of Labor Relations; now, a while ago, the signature of the AIC has already been made public, with some elements that go directly to areas that pre-characterize the labor market in a very clear way, such as multi-purpose enterprises..., so we will continue to work there. Other policies? Prevention. Here is an element, a bet that we have made to the department very clearly, that it is the SIS, that they have started their deployment to Lands of the Ebro, Lleida and Tarragona, that the next year we will start deployment to Girona, and will allow us to complete it in Barcelona, that it is a preventive service, and where we incorporate zero-three years, and where we improve the preventive policies for young people that we make with the joints, in a capillary and concerted way. Other elements we could put in, and I quit, but it's important: empowerment policies. I think we are all aware that we have a tool that we need to develop and we need to pull forward in this legislature, I have explained it actively and passively, I am aware of the difficulty that we have encountered in its deployment in these last seven months and months, because we have not been able to do so, but we have to help ourselves, and that when we were debating it and we agreed on the question, we also raised it from this aspect, which is guaranteed income, to be able to help around this empowerment and these situations. Beyond that, before we finish here, we'll go back to talking again. I told you one thing in the appearance, and I keep saying it, and I ratify it: we need to rethink much of the protection policies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.23.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.24.0	...infancy. And we expect this to be with this Parliament and with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now, for the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn again. Mrs. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.26.0	Counselor, for talking about family policies. The message that we are transferring to families today is bad; it is: having children is an extra poor factor. Infant llars have nine percentage points more risk of poverty than families without children. And if you're talking about a family, a single-maritime home, the risk of poverty is double. This is the message that we are moving to families with child protection policies that we are due to date. Let's talk about family politics. We radically change child protection policies. Otherwise, it's not credible, family policies. What are we talking about? Obviously, we have active employment policies for the risk collection, such as one of the ways to tackle this problem, and quality of work. But there's a while. At childhood, six months, one year, two years, is half of your life; they are crucial moments in the development of the brain, cognitive abilities and your abilities as opportunities for the future. The while is long with this type of public policies, which must be hard to finish, obviously; it is too long for a child and for a teenager. They can't be expecting it. Therefore, the one I call upon you in this inquiry, counselor, and the one we will call upon you in the following motion are political by now, but to understand the realities and circumstances in which childhood is found with the poor; not because of a question of "ai, poor, but because of a question of selfishness, even so much, as society; selfishness because, as in value, the people of the left cannot allow us to have this social inequality and selfishness because we are creating inequality of the future in the adult population and more public expenditure, than it is sustainable. We believe that this is an absolutely consistent approach to what should be the priorities of a department that means "lefts at a time like the present". Are you willing to double or not the investment in childhood and the assumption of the coming year? Are you willing to seriously consider the possibility of a universal child benefit in what case the child is the holder? All – all – entities working with these collections tell us that this is the solution that fits. And while we can't get this service, are you willing to shield through the rule of guaranteed citizenship income those families with children who may have, who may have access to guaranteed citizenship income..., to shield them more, that an error or any condition of the parents will not punish the children? There are, as a rule, possibilities for direct returns policies for those most vulnerable families from guaranteed income from citizenship, which is a tool that we have set ourselves precisely to reverse these inequalities, thought for adults but with a direct effect for infants. Is she willing to guarantee, her government, sufficient school feeding scholarships, to the gang of school feeding staff, also to the institutes, and also in the times when the schools are closed? Are you willing to work with respect to the problems of mental health, and dental health, and eye health, universal, for the child, for the child, from his government? Are we willing to put imagination and effort into ensuring that students and out-of-school students, together with the gatherings, are able to take care of children from families without resources? The joints are doing it; they don't have skills and they have much less assumption than you do. They're doing it. Sabadell is guaranteeing out-of-school or feeding to nine hundred infants during this summer holiday, for example; also the Barcelona City Council, also the gathering of many..., many gatherings of the metropolitan area, those that can be planted and that see the reality of this poor child constantly. It basically requires them not only to comply with the social obligation to do the impossible to reduce the child poverty and the poverty of the future to our society, but to comply with our own laws. Law 14/2010, the LDOIA, says in Article 15 that there is a principle of presuppositional priority in order to comply with the obligations established by this law. And it tells us in Article 2 that all the necessary measures must be taken urgently to prevent the essential content of children's and adolescents' rights from being affected by the lack of resources adapted to their needs. We are bound by conviction, we are bound by our own laws, we are bound by ethics, that I mean that we move all and all, to do the impossible to capture this situation that we currently have. And we won't repeat the same politics, counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, it's Mr. The Homrani's return now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.28.0	Thank you, President. Perfect, they're talking about family policies. It's an element that doesn't make us. That's why I've placed it, and that's why I think it's important that we can discuss it and discuss it. Now, I'm the one who, if I may, will not argue, because I don't agree... while it's long, while it's necessary. That is to say, or we face policies that take over or, if not, what we're going to do is shoot at it, absolutely necessary, but while it's absolutely necessary. And we are able to place where the basic problems of the model that ends up generating this situation or at the end we go to this situation that is complex and that ends up generating even more frustration, that is not changing the situation of the environment, that is what we want to change. From here on, you said to me: "Are you willing to double the supposition? We're willing to talk about it and get a premise that I can improve childhood policies. Everything you need. Of course, I could speak: childhood and youth policies; the one that allows me to improve active employment policies; the one that allows me to improve policies for people with disabilities; the one that allows me to improve the policies of aging, and also change the logic of these policies of aging. We're willing to talk about it and find out what way we get to a premise that I can get these tools even more. Because I will also defend and defend elements that have been made. And last week I signed with the president of the Federation of Municipalities and the president of the Association of Municipis the addition of the program contract; it is 230_million euros that the Generality invests in the municipalities to do something that we believe absolutely, that is the capillaryness of policies of basic social services, specialized social services and equality policies. And that's what we need to reschedule, too. And most of the policies that can be done are because there is this program contract. And this program contract also allowed in these two years to increase in more than 250 workers the basic areas of social services, which had suffered more in the first line the crisis situation. We don't have a problem. Just as you know perfectly well that we spoke quickly with the social workers, with the economic agents, with all those involved, we convened the guaranteed income governing council and the working group of the states is already in operation. And the will of the rule. And the will is that this rule is granted and that I allow us to improve the ability to attend to the most vulnerable collectivities. And we're sure to get out of it, because this is the will. And I think the most global assignment we have is how we make a deep reflection of the current protection system, which elements for the fact that it couldn't be developed right now are out of date and how we improve and build new tools. And in this we have many hopes to work together with the whole Parliament and especially with you. We don't have a problem. Now, also place and place valuable items, bets that have been made, like the SOAF, that have been created between the program contract and that allow an integral view of the families, for this, to recover policies from families, like the SIS, that also, and has entailed an increase of 10_million euros in the assumption of childhood. And we want and we'll work with respect. We have a chance to debate, we have a chance to find solutions, which is the most important. Thank you very much, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the anniversary of the end of the democracy of the months of September and October 2017]] [[300-00021/12]] The next question is about the anniversary of the anniversary of the month of September and October 2017 democracy, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Presents the inquiry Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.30.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in Catalonia over the past year, Mr Councillor, is sinking its roots far away; it is possible to sink them into the corrupt 3-per-cent pujolist regime and into governments that, in exchange for being appeased by nationalisms, decided to look elsewhere as nationalism took over the structures of a democratic state of the 21st century in Europe. It will turn out that even for that Mr Pedro Sánchez is not going to be original in this legislature. The last year has therefore written some of the most shameful pages in the history of Catalonia and Spain; a story written in the twisted lines of Mr. Jové's Moleskine agenda or in Mr. Salvadó's e-mails; in the documents that led the van to burn the Mossos by order, therefore, of the political leaders of the Interior Council; in the transcripts that have taken from conversations with Marta Rovira and others; in the recordings of the Mossos of how they were allowing the judicial mandate of October 1 to be disobeyed. And all this began to be written just a year ago in this Parliament too. In this Parliament, when you forced, through the majority of seats that have, not so much the social majority, an amendment to the regulation, which I remind you that this is what is happening in July, in order to be able to pass, by the exceptional procedure of one reading, nothing less than two laws with which you intended to unlawfully repeal our Statute of autonomy and the Spanish Constitution. That was the month of July. You were already preparing these clandestine committees with all determination, from your committees for rebellion, you were already preparing all machine. Because then we learned from the judges, from the courts, who was more or less part of those committees, who were preparing everything, who were determining how the data of all Catalans were obtained, who were determining in which school everything would be organized, who were determining how the ballot boxes were bought, how much money was used in the process. In those days, that committee, I suppose, also took the shameful decision that, in that gruesome and horrific attack on 17 August, we would pass the shame of all the Catalans of the manipulation that there was of that massive demonstration of so many Catalans repudiating terrorism, and that you have already manipulated to warm up that September in which you were going to proceed to strike democracy. And so they did. On 6 and 7 September, you finally repealed the Constitution and the Statute for the..., well, for the procedure here..., "because I am worth it, with 70 votes, 72, I repeal the Constitution and the Statute when, as we know, 90 votes are needed to move a coma of the Statute. And you gave it for good, because you are rather independent than democrats. You, this doesn't have legal feet or heads, but you carried it out, and you still say it's valid. In that shameful law of the breakup, which you adopted here with night and lightness, you did things like that Mr Puigdemont was the head of the State, of the Catalan State to be constituted; that you decided which officials would or would not be of the new administrations, of the new Administration of the Catalan State; that Mr Puigdemont could lay down the judges of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and turn it into a supreme court with judges appointed by him. This is so democratic that they called it the supreme norm. You called that law a supreme norm. It was scary – it was scary. That was in September, the 6th and 7th. On 20 September, there was a siege of the headquarters of Economics, when the judicial commission was going to look for evidence of misappropriation of public revenues on the occasion of the trial, which curiously that is the misappropriation by which the German courts are saying that they are going to proceed. For this offence of misappropriation, whose registration, entry and registration at the seat of his council, Mr Aragonés, tried to prevent by the force of the mass, that evidence was obtained to prove this misappropriation that the German courts are now pulling forward. And so you took the step of the referendum this, illegal, without legal coverage, and in which only you, the independenceists, and those you lied to go that day to vote telling them that it had legal effect, when it was obvious that it did not. There was an electoral board appointed here, at dawn, by Mr. Costa, precisely, that I do not see him sitting here, that was one of the trustees of the electoral board that you appointed at dawn, very impartial. He is now vice-president, on his lists, of this Parliament. And so, we continue with a diabolical month of October. That illegal referendum, on October 3rd, a political stoppage. There was the King's speech, which I would say to you here, which phrases bothered you with the King's speech, if they were the phrases that he said about the preservation of democracy and the rule of law? Then, on October 8th, hundreds of thousands of Catalans were manifested in Barcelona, and you... are those Catalans whom you insult and deny their Catalanity, whom Mr. Torra insults and denies their Catalanity. Those who do not feel independent and who, therefore, can no longer wear the Catalan label for you. That happened on October 8th. On the 9th, the High Court of Justice, before the plenary on the 10th, which I remind you that it declared independence for eight seconds, because the High Court of Justice, as it saw it coming, put the premises of the High Court of Justice under surveillance of the National Police next to the Mossos, because it did not trust the surveillance of the Mossos that Mr. Forner, today in prison, after having... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Forn, sorry– Forn, not Mr.Forner – today in prison, for being the head of the Mossos, who was to take care of the Mossos of the Republic. And so we arrived until the 26th of October, that there were doubts about whether you were making elections or not. There were doubts and they didn't, because you, the Republican Left, went out of your way, pressed Mr Puigdemont, and, well, the rest of you know it. On the 28th, after declaring independence, some fled, and that two-monther, in which you tied the blanket to your head, ended on November 2nd with some provisional prisons decreed. I am not a judge, neither are you, you will be judged – you will be judged –, surely for the crime of rebellion, but we do not know why you will be convicted, if it will be for rebellion, if it will be for sedition, if it will be for disobedience, if it will be for prevarication, if it will be for the embezzlement of public revenues, but for something, and serious, and with severe penalties, all this would say that it has room in the Penal Code, and that for something they could be convicted. This is a rule of law, no one is above the law, everything I have reported here can incur various crimes, and it will be seen. But you have had, with all this, a year of Parliament paralyzed; we have been without government for seven months, and the pernicious consequences for our democracy, which were the flight of companies, the paralysis of institutions with their non-participation in the chairs where things are decided in the rest of the state, the social fracture, the lack of condemnation of violence against people and parties, the lack of neutrality of institutions. All of that has remained and persists this year. You have appointed a radical this year. Obviously there is no time now to put us – we have already done it on other occasions – to degenerate the sentences that Mr. Torra has said, but not only Mr. Torra, also Mr. Puigneró or Mrs. Borrás. You are not a government, you are a CoR for independence; you are radical people who, for the time being, have neither recognized your mistakes, Mr Aragonese, nor recognized that you have said lies, nor have you asked the Catalans for forgiveness for everything you have done, nor have you condemned the violence, which persists continuously in the streets, the fruit of the division of all signs, and we condemn that of all signs, and I want you now to condemn that of all signs, but I fear that you will not do so. Look, by the way, Mr. Iceta, I see that you are not with the record that you have, including the last year, the things that you have done here already as a government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.31.0	Mr. Carrizosa, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.32.0	... and that, in my second round... – thank you, Mr. President –, in my second round I will specify. We believe that we should give you the opportunity to acknowledge that you have been wrong and that you are beginning to rectify. But, unfortunately, I was telling Mr.Iceta that we believe you are not going this way. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.33.0	To answer, the words of the vice president, Mr Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.34.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carrizosa, you have begun a description of the facts, of some facts, of past months, and you have entered a description of part. Of course you are on the side, and I would like to remind you of some aspects you have said, because they have matis. You were talking about a majority of seventy-two deputies abrogating the Statute. Allow 'to tell you that the State does not need this majority: with a simple majority of judges of the Constitutional Court it seems that there is enough to devour, we could also say, and repeal the State voted for citizenship in Catalonia. You said that on September 20th there was an asset that prevented the judicial committee from bringing its actions to an end in the Department of Economics. It wasn't like that – it wasn't like that. There was a protest, but the judicial committee was able to bring to an end all the actions it had planned. A register was made—a register was made, and God said that they were now in the Department of Economics—and guaranteed entry and exit at all times. Surely you didn't want to see a recent documentary... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I see you're very grateful to Mrs. Arrimadas. Anyway, I, like, when you talk about them, I don't laugh, because what they say is pretty serious... I recommend that the look, that the look and see, so, maybe, a way to explain it that they don't like it. They complained that he was wearing a year of Parliament without meeting, but they forgot that this Parliament was dissolved by Mr Mariano Rajoy in application of 155, which you also gave support to. In fact, you say that you have done so long before the dissolution of Parliament, and that you have done so much deeper 155, affecting also the professionalism of public media workers. You say, for example, that here we deny the catalanity of everyone who saw Catalonia. Listen to me, then, no; I know very hard. I know it's very hard that you don't understand the argument, but we won't deny a gram of citizenship, of catalanity, to everyone who wants to be and understand and who lives in this country. May – May. So, and you know it, Mr. Carrizosa, because we couldn't talk about you and me in other forums, deprived of some of them, and you know that this is the position. In fact, he has explained that some of these acts, that you denounce that we have done, so, no? He began to quote a whole series of crimes, saying that you are not a judge, but he said: "They will get out of prison. So, it's not judicious, but I know there's going to be an alleged conviction. Clearly, in this story, Mr. Carrizosa, which you have made, some elements are missing. Some elements of this history are missing, such as, for example, that a year ago was cited, on the part of the Civil Guard, senior officials of the Generality and workers of the Generality, for an investigation that the Civil Guard said was for the Instruction Court number 13. And then it turns out that Instruction Judgement number 13 said he didn't order any interrogations. And that, therefore, it was the Civil Guard, lying, which was, therefore, bringing to an end these interrogations. Of course, you, who are so much friends of the courts and who believe so much in the judiciary, know that the Barcelona hearing has agreed to file, precisely, a complaint for these effects, and that we will therefore see who has produced falsehoods, who has lied, whether the head of the Instruction Court number 13 or the judicial police, the Civil Guard, with those interrogations. It's been a year – it's been a year – that's been going on. So you're asking questions that, if they're no one's responsibility, they have to be illegal, right? Or aren't they, these? You also have some parts of this story that you haven't explained. He did not explain, for example, that October 1st there were police charges that left a thousand wounded of different consideration. You didn't explain that. And you say that September 6th and 7th produced that damage to the image of democracy, institutions and the country, but forget that October 1st, those images that were produced in Barcelona gave the world a turn and were the shame of a Spanish state. Of a Spanish state which, incomplicating the judicial resolutions of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which said that the actions to prevent the referendum were to be carried out without disturbing the citizenry, they made a police deployment that left wounded, that planted the panic between the population, and of which no one – no one – took responsibility. The head of the operation, Mr. Pérez de los Cobos, ascended, responsible for the Civil Guard in Madrid. And who answered for that? None– none. If you say they work for all the citizens of Catalonia, think of those who were assaulted on October 1st or felt assaulted. In them it seems that you don't think of it for a second. Another part of the story they haven't explained. He also left on 16 October, which yesterday led to the arrest of Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez, two civilian leaders. A pre-trial arrest reported for Amnesty International. As everyone knows, Amnesty International is also a CDR, right? This part of the story doesn't explain it. Or as hundreds of professors and professors of criminal law – professors and professors of criminal law – consider that the crime of rebellion is not applicable. Up until this week, an article was released from that which we in law schools call the legislator. So, yeah, Mr. Diego López Garrido, that's not a CDR either, huh? Not an independentist, and who clearly says that what was produced in Catalonia is not rebellious. In his opinion, there may be some illegalities, but it is not rebellion, and under this rebellion the government that was here until it ceased, or they must be in exile, is under pressure to exile the general secretary of my party and now it is suspended, on the part of the Llarena judge, deputies of this Parliament. For a crime that is a good part of the academic community, that the drafter of the article of the Criminal Code and that, above all, other jurisdictions that have examined it, at the time of the extradition proceedings, consider that it has not occurred. This part doesn't explain the story; this part of the story for you is not important. As he did not explain, as he did before, the impresoniment and the pre-trial detention. I sometimes have the feeling that you... sometimes, when you talked about the political situation in Catalonia, someone referred to the hamster of the process, right? : to go back on the same, to go back on the same... I, with all due respect, believe that the hamster is you, because it is recreated in anecdotal aspects, it is recreated in partial visions of these facts to justify a policy, a political practice that does encourage tension, which encourages tension. Because you, in tension, have electoral projection; when there is no such tension, you do not have this electoral projection. And that's why they take advantage of any opportunity – any opportunity – to encourage and strain this society. I was pleased to hear from you today proposals to alleviate this political polarization; I did not hear it. I hope that now, in the turn of the line, I'm done. And I have no doubt that I will be loving, and willing to work together to find these proposals. Because we, this government – and I speak on behalf of this government – want all the violence of our society to be eradicated, all of it. And we condemn without pal·liatius all the violence that I suffered any city of Catalonia, all of it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All rape is reprehensible, there are no matisses in the sentence of rape. And if they let me keep talking and they didn't speak out loud, so I can keep exposing this. But we condemn everything, we don't have a problem. Now, let's see it all, huh? , and we see all the situations and we exercise all responsibility for not generating unnecessary stress situations, because sometimes it seems like you're playing this. I would like it to be very different, I would like it to be that I have come out here with proposals – that I have come out here with proposals. But as you seem to be trapped in time, trapped in a partial view of the events of last September and last October, you don't seem to want to get out of here. This is a government that wants to work for all the citizens of Catalonia, all of them; also those who in October were shown in favour of the unit of Spain, we will also work for their social rights, we will also work for their civil rights, we will also work for their political rights, we will also work for their political rights, we will work because they are better. Because we are heading all over the country, without exception, and also because we, like the government, would never, in life, send the security forces to carry against people who are carrying out a democratic mobilization that was the reference of '1 October. To those who wish to express legitimately what they think, by far different than the majority of the government and the majority of the Parliament, they are always 'lsha to respect. And the obligation of any government is to ensure that they can exercise their rights; the ones that were expressed in favour of the Spanish unit last October and the ones that we went to vote on October 1, that we didn't deserve what happened. I look forward to your proposals, honourable Member. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.35.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. For the reply, has the word the deputy Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.36.0	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Aragonès. The first thing I'd say is don't bother, and I don't expect TV3 workers to feel concerned about their professionalism, but, frankly, I don't think it's TV3 documentaries who judge what happened at the Economics Council. [[applause]] Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! , in which the detainees usually enter to witness the records, and there they could not enter because the masses prevented them, led by some of the people for whom you say that they were sentenced in October but that they had done absolutely nothing. As for whether Catalanity is not denied to anyone and if any act of violence is condemned and so, look, we have populations with mayors of Republican Esquerra, for example, Canet, for example, Llavaneres, for example, Livia, who declare us people not grateful and who, when we go there to walk, tell us that we come to provoke; and they are mayors of Republican Esquerra. You didn't disallow them, Mr. Aragonès. Don't come here because then you condemn all kinds of violence... It's very easy, even as a party: give your mayors a touch and tell them: "Hey, let's start disciplinary sanctions, you can't strain society like that. We do these things. When there is some public office of ours that does things that are not welcome in democracy, if it does them, if the case is given – there it is, in the Republican Left, I have told you three examples – we act. Act also, even as a party; you have it very easily. Later, you also referred to Mr. Jordi Cuixart's provisional prison – and Amnesty International –, didn't you? Look, Amnesty International recognizes that there are no political prisoners here, and they have also recognised it – for those who partially read the judicial decisions – the German court that has ruled on the extradition of Mr Puigdemont: it also says that Mr Puigdemont is not a persecuted in Spain and that it is fallacious to deny that Spain is a democratic state of the European Union. I'm also telling you to remember that you're very lonely in the world. And you said: you will not send the Mosses, you..., we would have sent there to the forces and bodies... We will not send anyone, eh? ; it was the judges who sent that on October 1st, with your knowledge, they knew that the express instructions of a court were being violated..., it was you who encouraged that there would also be people who would go to the schools. You did not hesitate to make police charges with the Mossos in Plaza Catalunya or here in Parliament, outside this Parliament. You didn't hesitate on those occasions. Look, this summary we made today of that year's coup, you were actually demanding proposals from me, and I... we're going to make proposals to you, and we're going to make proposals to you in this motion arising from this inquiry, and also one first morning, at the co-existence plenary, that we're going to make ten motions for resolutions each of the parties. And it's just that here we need a rudder strike, in Catalonia, we can't stand another year like this, don't give us another year like this. They're giving it to us, you're giving it to us. Today it has been announced that the Constitutional Court has already admitted to the proceedings the challenge against the motion for a resolution that you, unconsciously, against the judgment of the lawyers – that I see you have already changed them and put your former colleague, the last of the lawyers who entered, is already the senior lawyer here in this Parliament, to see if you can properly collate things... – so you are already transgressing. The same lines that have been crossing over the past year, are crossing over this year as well. They have already dealt with things that could not be dealt with, we have already voted here on things that could not be voted on. Therefore, what we want is to make an inventory of this last year, remind you that you go exactly the same path you started last year, a year ago, with these unique readings. They are now seeking to reform the Rules of Procedure again. They reformed it for the single reading and want to reform it so that the fugitives from justice can be here, to accommodate the suspensions that the Criminal Procedure Act says, to accommodate the opinions of the lawyers you have just put in, that the suspensions are as if the deputies of your offices had not been suspended... Therefore, what we are going to propose to you..., we will do so in the next motion, which will be in October, derived from this inquiry, and we will also do so in tomorrow's plenary session. But I'm afraid that, as that would mean giving a bandage in your rupturist project, I'm very afraid that you're not going to join the proposals that we propose for a true democracy in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.37.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. To finish the reply, the vice president...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.38.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Carrizosa, well, at the moment, zero proposals still, huh? I had launched the repte of power to him... – he is still, Mr President... Now, perfect; I would not want to have more time than I am close. I said, Mr. Carrizosa, zero proposals. I'd thrown him back... he needs twenty-four hours; no problem. Tomorrow we will wait for the proposals and study them, no doubt. We do have it. We have the proposal that political questions are politically resolved, that the dialogue prevails, that we build a country with rights for everyone and that there is respect for democratic will. That's what we're proposing. They are the axes on which we believe that the political action of any majority of Parliament in this country needs to be developed. And in that sense I'm warning you already, huh? That is why we will not give up our political project. We, this majority of government, this government, an independentist government, we will not give up independence, we are not willing, we believe that... we would not forgive ourselves. But obviously we will advance, and we will advance peacefully and democratically, as we have done. You've come back to explain that little part of the truth, but not to explain it all; then it's one way, a little, of, by the back door, telling lies. When he was talking about non-grateful people, right? in this Parliament Marta Rovira, in this legislature, before taking the path of exile, said precisely that Esquerra Republicana, therefore, rejected the fact that it is defined as the non-grateful person. And then we did it. [[Funnel veils]] ...Mrs. Arrimadas, you always interrupt. [[Let's keep the veils on.]] You always interrupt. Respect the words. Respect one law, which is the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia. [[Give me the applause.]] Please! See? I see they're so pleased, in fact, that they've applauded, right? All right. Let me talk. [[Widow's remorse.]] I think...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.39.0	Let the vice president speak, who has the use of the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.40.0	Ouch! [[Rialles.]] It's that I sometimes don't like what they say, but I respect it, because this is the grace, the freedom of speech... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] See? He'll be right back.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.41.0	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not interrupt the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.42.0	Can I continue? [[Pause.]] Well, I'll keep going. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] There's another one coming back now. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So they can talk more fluently, let's just say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.43.0	Go on, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.44.0	It's that, of course, if I feel... In fi, I continue – counselor, we have work, eh? You see that. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] Anyway, let me... Anyway, Marta Rovira said, and I remember, in this Parliament she said, that we were against it. And therefore, listen to me, the message has become clear and the message has been transmitted. Then you guys clean things up. Clearly, to go to Canet de Mar the past dissabte..., everyone, obviously, you must have the freedom to go to acts if you consider it appropriate, you would just miss it. Now, you, who are advocates of the laws, when they ask for municipal permission and it turns out that there are programmed activities in that space, so it's possible that they say to them: "Do, listen, the act in another location, as we've all done – as we've all done. Then, of course, if the alternative to this is to go and walk the streets of the people, in exercise of freedom of expression, end up writing three or four times, I think it is not a favor – it is not a favor – to reduce this social tension. And stroll along and take pictures with the attackers who participated in that municipality, two months ago, in an attack on the citizens of that municipality, neither does it help – nor does it help. And if I don't know who the Lord was with who the photos were taken, then listen to me, they can go out and say, "Look, we didn't know that and apologize to the people who were attacked at that time. That said, you haven't made a proposal yet, and I'm following you to ask for proposals. And you've called this young man a democracy shot, and the shots are the shots that people took on October 1. It's the times we spend seeing our political partners and leaders, not just the seventy independent people we're in this chamber, but two million voters – two million voters. And you must understand that keeping these people in pre-trial detention obviously generates anxiety and indignation in a part of our society. And how are we gonna get out of this situation? So, we'll get out with dialogue and democracy, not forbidding any idea. Fostering dialogue and coexistence. And that's why I demand that in their political action they do everything possible to reduce tension, not help it. Where we see the opportunity to make a problem, we give it up. I give up those minutes of telenews, I give up those minutes of being able to explain it for the TV sets, I give up the opportunities to generate more tension thinking that they would get some votes, which seems to me that this is no longer the case, by luck. Therefore, give up and take a step forward. They're the party with the most deputies in this chamber. Therefore, they also have a point of responsibility – they have a point of responsibility – in whether they are favoring political polarization in this country. We will work because political problems are solved politically and not criminally and not in terms of street criticism. And, therefore, this is this government's compromise: to continue working for everyone, to secure everyone's rights, and to convince him that the dialogue, respect for democracy and everyone's rights is the best way forward. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.45.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[Asking the Government about the beginning of the 2018-2019 school year]] [[300-00022/12]] The sixth item on the agenda is the question to the Government about the beginning of the 2018-2019 school year, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, which will expose Mrs Sonia Sierra, for a period of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.46.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, advisors, guests, a previa: you do know who Otegi is and you do know who the terrorists of Terra Lliure are, and you do take pictures of them. [[Some applause.]] "Cape type of segregation, neither one, nor social, nor economic, nor genera, nor linguistic. With these troubling words the councillor finished his first appearance at the Teaching Commission. And it says worrying because if you want to solve a problem the first thing you have to do is recognize that this problem exists. And these words addressed to me, who had not served the word "segregation" at any time. That must be a good excuse, not a small one, a manifest accusation. The councillor repeatedly denies that there is no type of school segregation, but, yes, there is, and the problem is so difficult that just two years ago Greuges's syndicate, who is now more entertained with the themes of the process, summoned us, the deputies of this chamber, and also agents of the educational community, to create, and I quote textually, "a social and political pact to combat school segregation decisively. At the same time, the syndic lamented that – and I quote again textually – « the collective lack of awareness of the need to combat segregation. It seems obvious, therefore, Mr. Counselor, that you form part of this collective consciousness that you do not see the need to combat the segregation of which the syndic is planning. Curiously, Mr Bargalló, you alluded to this pact against segregation, in a double-minded act so typical of Catalan nationalism, that you consider that, at the same time, you can support a pact against segregation and end your repeated appearance that "there is no form of segregation, no form of segregation. It's his text words, and surely his advisors can send him the transcript right now to see that it's that way. The truth is, it seems to you that consistency is overrated. In fact, her predecessor, Mrs. Clara Ponsatí – just a year ago too – said that to her the problem that most reduced her to Catalan teaching was the segregation of school in Catalonia. And I saw that she was a lady who wasn't interested in the subject of education. Everyone knows he came here just to open the schoolhouses and make a school reference. But then, when we asked her an inquiry, the only one they did in this plethora, she said that it's that she didn't come in the color of talking about high school schools, huh? Not from the nuclear fusion, not from the high school schools. She didn't see it in color, and then she devoted herself more to talking about scarabs than she didn't answer to Mrs. Niubó in her interview. That's right, he left us a memorable intervention, his only intervention, just overtaken by another Member of Parliament for the Yes, Mr. Eduard Reyes, who also allowed him to go out more, I don't understand why, because it was truly memorable. So, we have a teaching counselor who repeatedly denies school segregation in Catalonia, and a president of the Generality who is meeting with the country's president and says that 90 percent of the time talks about how to separate us from the rest of Spain and Europe, because he doesn't have time to talk about minor issues, making it clear that he governs, only and exclusively, for people who wear a groceries, and that the only obsession he has is to separate us from the rest of Spain. So, look, Mr. Bargalló, as much as the President of the Generality considers education to be a minor issue, or as much as you repeatedly deny that there is school segregation, the truth is that the Catalan student does not study in equal conditions, according to the socioeconomic situation of his families, and also according to the place where they were born. This means that there is no social cohesion or territorial cohesion in Catalan education. The truth is that it costs me a lot to talk about success models with the indicators we have; I'll talk about a few. For example, one student from Ciutat Vella has eight times more chances of school failure than one from Sarrià. That is to say, five kilometers multiplied by eight the possibility of school failures. Moreover, Catalonia is the autonomous community of Spain where academic results depend more on the economic situation of families. This is their success model, a success model according to where they were born or your family's economic situation makes you have more or less opportunities for school failure. This is his educational policy. This, and deny that there is any type of school segregation. Not one, according to his literal words. It's that he's on his transcript. I can deny everything you want, but it's the official transcript of what you said. Look, Mr. Bargalló, you've done a little, sorry, comparison, like children when they have a napkin in their faces and think that no one sees them; however much you think they don't see it, that there are no problems, that there is no segregation, school segregation exists, and it's a topic that needs to be focused and not run away from studying as you do. And another one he ran away from is the theme of the barracks. He talked a little bit about it; but, in fact, he spent a lot more time saying that you are the only educational authority in Catalonia that does not talk about barracks, considering that we are the autonomous Spanish community with more barracks with a lot of difference. We have more than a thousand, and the second is Andalusia, with three hundred. And besides, it's a structural problem. Bearing in mind that Teaching Councillors have always been either in the hands of Convergence or in the hands of the Republican Left, it is clear that the problem of barracks is a problem for which you are solely responsible. A model of success that makes us the educational community in which we in the worst conditions study our students. See if I'm any better off today than the day of the appearance, because I asked him and answered him and he didn't answer me. What do you think you're doing to get rid of the barracks? Are you going to fight for the money of the « political syringuites, of the separatist embassies that end up with this sacra? Or consider yourself more than the students study in the worst possible conditions, but you have your embassies to place your friends there. More examples of school segregation: students with autistic spectrum are not allowed to stay with most of Catalonia's public and concerted school teachers. What do you think you're doing with this? They'll have students with a driver's watch to stay at the caterers, to have extracurricular activities, to be able to go to colonies... More cases of discrimination in Catalonia: the Federation of Deaf Persons of Catalonia, the Association We want to Sign and Listen and the Association of Parents of Deaf Children have denounced that some two_ thousand students do not have any type of help to the classrooms that guarantee their bilingual education; that is, in sign language – that is their mother tongue – and in oral language. As we have here a series of advisors who have allergy to the word "bilingualism", so, look, the poor students are also harmed here. This lack of educational centres with interpreters causes a high number of students to have no access after college, because there is a lot of absenteeism and a lot of school breaks. In fact, it is the disability with less presence on campus, according to Marian González, president of the Association We want to sign and listen. From this, school segregation goes, Mr. Counsellor, for much that you deny it. And, in the band of these two thousand students without any kind of help, we also have that students who do have an interpreter only have thirty hours of instruction. What are you going to do with these students? Is it compromising, in your Parliament, that all Catalan students can have bilingual education, sign language and oral language, or will it force families to continue through the courts? Because, much as you are old enough to be the only educational authority, the truth is that families know their rights and have denounced them for this situation of discrimination. What do you think is more: to give the same opportunities to deaf students or to keep families on the way to justice? And, finally, another issue that really affects us is the inspector's body. The 2000 Convergence Programme talks, and I quote it textually, about ‘reorganising the inspector's body in such a way that it monitors the correct compliment of the legislation on the catalanization of teaching. It seems obvious that another thing, no, to end up with barracks, no; now, to complete the Convergence 2000 Programme, have they made it thread by thread, eh? It's very easy. They don't call opposition contests, and when the inspectors retire, they stay with their friends and they can do whatever they want. And now we've got eight of each of your inspectors standing by you. It's normal that families are not yours, that they rely more on Spanish justice than they do on this Catalan school that you say is the only authority. It commits, Mr. Counselor, to convoking continuous opposition until it reaches 8_percent of interim inspectors, and that the rest of it... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no... I'm talking about inspectors, I'm talking about inspectors, I'm talking about the inspector's body, those that you have said so you can do whatever you want. It compromises..., the same way he said 8_per_cent would be the ideal given of interim teachers, if it is the ideal for interim teachers, I say it must also be for the inspectors, right? Because here" or all of you are dead or all of you are Christians. Oh, no, inspectors, no, they have to do what they want and then they can say that it's the only educational authority and deny parents and mothers when they decide to report because their rights and rights of their children are being violated. What are you going to do to end this inspector's body instrumentation? Are you committed to calling these calls or will you be a loyal leaver of Jordi Pujol and his Agenda 2000? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.47.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. For the answer to the inquiry, the words of the Councillor of Teaching, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.48.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you will advise..., Mrs Sierra, as you are the spokesman of Ciutadans in the field of education and I know the counselor of the subject in the Government, we will have to have many parliamentary relations; as we will have to have them, we can start well or we can start badly. I'm going to start well, let's just say, "I'm going to win, huh? , to start well. You've been in court, and you can do me now, if you want, cheat, if you want – if you want – no problem, huh? [[Funnel veils]] No, no problem, but as you were in attendance and some illustrious Members of your group, who are also here today, you know that I devoted a lot of my attendance to talking about the problems we had of segregation. He knows what I said – and I said it again, because I put up with it, and consciously, and I said it again and more slowly – I said: "We want to be the fighting department against school segregation. We did. I was saying that we would take everything the syndic had done in his plan against school segregation and that the department would last for practice. I said I insisted. Counts of the week the syndic sees has called a meeting to continue the work of the pact and, for the first time, the Department of Education will participate in this meeting. So – so, I insisted, huh? I mean, what I said in the end is that we didn't want to segregate either by going to school. And that meant simply that we didn't want to make groups of students who studied in catal and groups of students who studied in castle, that this for us was linguistic segregation. That's the final sentence, huh? This is the final sentence – this is the final sentence. But we insisted that we are against segregation. And now you can say to me: "No, no, you haven't said it, but it's the same – it's the same – because we will fight against segregation. You say that we have said it or say that we have not said it, I will not lose myself now in a Byzantine discussion about whether we have said it, we have not said it, or we have said it a little or we have said it a lot. We will fight against school segregation. Why? Because it's the hard problem we have not in school, but in society, but not in school segregation, but in social segregation. This is a difficult problem for society: the lack of equity. The school – and I said it at the show, and I can say it again – will not solve the company's lack of equity; it will not solve it, only. It's not the only solution, just. And in some elements of fairness you don't have the tools to solve it. Now, yes, school can help in collective equity policies, and what you don't have to do is increase segregation. For this reason, we have proposed and will continue to propose the measures that in the schooling process allow the publicly funded school to represent in its if a reality that I do not have to see with that of the surroundings in which it is located. And, therefore, we will – as you know, because we said so – make a reform of the enrolment decree, to make these measures that the schools also help us in enrollment, in this aspect of improving social equity. Therefore, we want to be the department of the struggle against segregation, but not only ourselves: grabbing the hand of the syndic and the entities, associations and the educational world that participates in it, grabbing the hand of the parliamentary groups that want to participate in it, grabbing the hand of the whole educational community and the assemblies. Will we end the segregation? No, no, Can you help the riding? We'll try. And then, some of the fears that you have. I was prepared to talk about the beginning of the school year, which is the subject of the inquiry, but as I have been a Member of Parliament, I already know what the game is about. That's to say, you bring up an inquiry, you finish up doing something else, and the counselor tells you that you asked for something, and then we lose all of us. The answer that you have raised, not the concept of course hints, of course hint data, or of problems that we will have with the course hint, which I was willing to talk to you about. The barracks. You're right, we have a lot of barracks. It makes me another trap, because it also forms part of the parliamentary game, which is the difference of barracks between Catalonia and Andalusia. I will never make comparisons with autonomous communities of the State, in terms of figures, because they are always very complicated, but there is a small difference between Catalonia and Andalusia for what it does..., which can explain the barracks– can explain it, eh? That is that between the 99-2000 course until now, Catalonia has increased a 52_per_cent in ordinary and Andalusian students, an 8.7_per_cent in ordinary students. We have grown a 52_per_cent in ordinary students of the immigration allusion, and Andalusia has grown an 8.7_per_cent. The answer to this growth, 52,6 is a thousand barracks, of this 8,7, in three hundred. Now it could be demagic and say that if we compare 52/1,000, 8,7/300..., but it would be lied, because the important thing is not who has more or who has less, the important thing is that we have to plan how to eradicate them; there are more, or there are more, we have to plan how to eradicate them. But I also told the audience, Mrs Sierra, that I am concerned about something such as the barracks, that they are the old buildings that have not been reformed, and that some old buildings that have not been reformed are in a more worrying state than those that have been built in barracks, and that in some cases I will prioritise either the reform of these buildings or the new construction of these buildings than the suppression of some barracks, because I find it more urgent to benefit the students who are in those buildings or in those barracks. But we talk about it, huh? I am willing, as I told you to finish the appearance, to talk to you in your parliamentary office and outside your parliamentary office. Mensers. In autism, both the autists and the beggars – the autists and the beggars – as well as the oralism and the signism – the debate between oralism and signism – and the bet for the signism per manent of the oralism, and, therefore, the signifiers..., both things form part of the development of the decree of the inclusive school, which we would draw forward. A development of an inclusive school decree that we will also have to do among all parliamentary groups, and that we will put in place measures. Enguany, with extended assumptions, we will try to do whatever we can with these assumptions. But, you know, if you tell me about all the fooders, I'll say, I don't know if I can compromise everyone, with the assumptions extended, all of them. I can tell you that in all those cases we're trying to act on it because the driver's child or the driver's child is in the right condition in the classroom and in the school enclosures that are possible. And finally, the inspectors. Miri, I don't think I'm going to complete the Convergence program – I don't think I'm going to complete the Convergence program. I don't know if there's anyone from Convergence here at these times, but I don't think I'm going to complete it. [[Rialles.]] Sure, huh? I can assure you, can't I? I didn't read it either. Now, when you get home, let's just say, 'I'll read it, 'cause it made me take interest. And it's okay, huh? , that a deputy from Ciutadans makes me take an interest in reading the Convergence program. And so I'll have an excuse to read it, for example. But my job is not to complete the Convergence programme, the PDECAT programme, the Junts per Catalunya programme and the Esquerra programme. Mine's the government program. My obligation is to complete the government program. And in the government program there has been an end to inter-internships – an end to inter-internships – and a successful transition of inter-internships to fixed and stable places. In this concept of finishing the interns there is also the inspection. Obviously, there's also the inspection. You do not escape that there has been a certain debate in the last few years on how to make the Inspector's objections, a certain intrusion of the State into how to make the Inspector's objections. And a willingness from Catalonia to oppose an inspector, who has to see the LEC, which is the law of his own. With this intention later, to test inspection, we oppose by inspection that I have to see with the LEC, the law itself, the government will work there. We want strong inspectors, pedagogical leaders and involved in the centres, and therefore we need inspectors who are fixed and not acting. And that'll find us too. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.49.0	Thank you, Mr. Bargalló. For the answer, the deputy... another time, the lady Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.50.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bargalló, don't say you don't plan to complete the Convergence 2000 Program because it's complete already. I've been wired for a while. Then you didn't listen to me when I spoke because I already told you that you said that you would subscribe, that I was thinking of strengthening, that you were thinking of supporting this pact against aggression, the syndicate. It's just that I've already told him, it's a more than double-thinking show of nationalists; if they leave Orwell as a learner at his side. It is a more than double-thinking exhibition: we support the pact against segregation and, at the same time..., I say it because it is at the transcription of his last intervention: "No type of segregation, neither one, nor social, nor economic, nor genera, nor linguistic. That's in the transcript. You say that there is no type of segregation, if there is no type of segregation, why should you be given support to a pact against segregation? Then he says they don't make comparisons with Spain. No, they directly say, "Spain is stealing from us, and so let's get it over with. But now I'm going to give him more data than we are on the barricades issue, and he's going to see that what he just said about immigration isn't much less justification. The problem is how resources are distributed, "political xiringuites, embassies, high paid charges more well paid than other charges from the rest of Spain or end up with barracks. I know he's made an excuse to the committee that he doesn't, that the important thing now is to renovate the buildings. No, sir, the important thing is to renovate the buildings and finish the barracks! I can't serve as an excuse not to end this charade. According to the data from the 2015-2016 course guide file, prepared for your department, we can see that in the last 20 years we have a half of more than eight hundred sheds per course and now we are in more than a thousand. This medium so high means that the problem is structural, has nothing to do with times of demographic growth or immigration. I can pick up a little, but it's not the problem, when we have a half a hundred and now we have more than a thousand. In fact, since the decade of the eighty-eighths the school population has been reduced to reach the ends of the 20th century and continued to have this structural problem of barracks. And from the 21st century it begins to grow a little. At the lowest point we've been with less than a million students and now we're around 1.3 million. That is to say, in the last five years it has grown a little and unfortunately this we see that the name of barracks is stable force. I insist, it's that the middle is eight-cent, when there was less than seven-cent and there was more than one. Now I don't remember which is the exact cipher, but it was around that, eight hundred. That's why you can't blame migration charges. What we ask is that the money that you want to dedicate, legitimately, to the separatist embassies in order to separate us from the rest of Spain, to place your friends in "political syringuites, is destined for families, so that children can study with conditions. And another good aspect for the course teacher... – I don't understand how I can say that my interview is not a course teacher – I seem to be talking about barracks because children can study with decent conditions, talking about all children can have a school teacher, talking – who hasn't answered me – that all deaf children can have an understanding throughout the course schedule are conditions without here not for a good course start. And another aspect that we are very concerned about is the issue of the free text books. Because for a good start to the course, families don't have to spend about three hundred euros on text books. For us it is a very important issue, we have already achieved it in other autonomous communities such as Madrid or Murcia. We presented it to the previous legislature, at the end it was approved. Obviously Convergence and Republicans didn't do anything because in their republic as it's all free, there's frozen desserts every day, so I can't have free text books anymore because it's all free, and everyone's taller and prettier. Well, it didn't do anything, but each family ends up paying three hundred euros at the beginning of each course. We have already registered a bill because, like the Autonomous Community of Madrid or of Murcia, you can have free text books. But we can't let the opportunity pass that we're interviewing today to ask what their capture is about free text books. I know he's going to tell me that school isn't good enough anymore. Look, that's not true. There are choices that don't make it work – especially there are teachers that don't make it work, more than honest choices – but the vast majority of Catalan families, when the start of the course, have to pay about three hundred euros in text books. What's his catch? Do you think you're working because families can have free text books? Will they give us support, the group that gives support to the Government, to our proposal for law because just like the rest of the Spanish students can have free text books, or will they continue to spend money on their political syllables and trying to separate us from the rest of Spain and Europe? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.51.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's the return to counsel's reply, Mr. Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.52.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Sierra, I'm having a hard time, huh? I make good will, but I... I mean, I make good will, I can assure you. «.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[remorse of the voice]] – rancid–, listen to me..., falsely bars, based on a broken syntax and in which it is always repeating the same, that there are four words that say from almost a bot, come out and resurrect, and the ‘chinguinitos and the colocats... I am very avowed – I am very avowed –, Mrs Sierra. [[Widow's remorse.]] And horror is not good, because it does not help creation. And, of course, now what I want you to say. Listen, I should say to him now: "No, no, help yourselves, because they should end up with these pools of the Spanish ambassadors' private residences for the world, which more than these pools – they all have, huh? , to all private residences, all have – which are dear! And the gardens, the gardens of the Moroccan Embassy! And the gardens of the Spanish Embassy of the Vatican! And, of course, now we'd get into a loop – in a loop – that we could all play the trick we wanted. In addition, I can assure you that, if the Government of the Generality does not complete its duty to keep offices abroad to help the projection of our culture and our businesses, if it does not complete this duty, and does not make it, and these money the doors for the barracks, we do not end up with the thousand barracks; we do not end up with the thousand barracks, nor with the nine hundred, nor with the eight hundred, nor with the seven hundred, nor with the six hundred, nor with the five hundred. So, that's demagogic, making this work. And we all know that. So either we're at the demagogue or we're going to talk about education. I'm going back to say, Mrs. Sierra: if you want to talk about education, we can talk about it – if you want to talk about education, we can talk about it –; if you want to sweep topics, if you want to make a speech..., this speech barroque and unionism grudges – that has all the right to do, but it avorates me, because at every Ple the fan – they do, but then we won't talk about education. I'll talk to the other groups; we'll talk to the other groups, education. I want to talk to everyone who wants to talk to us; I want to talk to everyone who wants to talk to us. Then I say again: I do not justify barracks; of barracks, we do not want them. We'll always have it, but we don't want it in this amount. We will always have, because you have remembered, for example, that there are cases in which we have not yet built an institute because the assembly has not yet given us the yard and there are barracks. And in these cases, which will always pass, because a partial plan will have been made in which the builder, obviously, will have made his way and the joint will give us the solar later than the partial plan, and we will not be able to build until we have the solar... – and this is..., today there is, and all the joints and all the colors, huh? , of all the gatherings and of all the colors–, until we have a solar in condition we cannot begin to bid the works; therefore, there will be barracks there– there will be barracks there–, and there will be none there, and it will pass to any place in the territory. Therefore, with zero barracks, never; lower it, yes. What I said to him is that, in the building plan that we would do and in the building plan that we would explain to them, we would prioritize. And, in some cases, priority will not be a concrete barracks, but in some case it will be an old school. And we're gonna do this and we're gonna do this. For what it does to the free text books, if we can, yes. And if you give us a presupposition, you approve of a presupposition that you allow us, too. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, but we're talking about the presupposition, huh? Not the concept. The concept, okay. The assumption are priorities; we will set the table as the priority and see what priority, among all, we agree: zero-three, textbooks, beggars... Let's talk to us. I know of what I think, however, that textbooks are in the process of extinction as the compulsory and sole school material of each student, and they have a future as the combined and non-unique school material of each student, and therefore not necessarily, right? , bought for families. And this is the future. Let's speed it up. I absolutely agree; if you want, we'll speed it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-17-1401.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. With this, we've finished all the interrogations. Therefore, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning to the gods of the morning. Thank you very much.
