ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.1.0	Good morning. Let's go back to the session, more like it. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a study commission on civil and political rights]] [[252-000009/12]] The fifth item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a committee to study civil and political rights. We will begin the debate with a single turn of interventions, of two minutes for each parliamentary group, of five minutes for the subgroups, so that they can fix their position. Let's start with the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group; therefore, Mr. Manuel Rodríguez has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.2.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Members, Members, if we just read the title, we could come to think that the purpose of this is to set up a committee in which we could talk about the rights of all Catalans, about all the rights that have been violated. But the truth is that, with the statement of reasons that they have given, that they have made, we see that it is absolutely false and partisan. Strangely enough, it took them long enough to set up another political chiringuite for and by the separatists. I will go on to relate some of the barbarities that are said in that explanatory statement. Things are said like: « The Spanish State has responsed the majority of Catalans in an authoritative way. Well, first of all, the party that won the elections in Catalonia was Ciutadans; that was the majority will of the Catalans. And don't forget; every time you do, we'll remind you. Moreover, when speaking of Spain, bear in mind, Mr Torra, that you are the ordinary representative of the State. And also, what a curious coincidence: you respond to yourself in an authoritarian way. There are also claims such as: "the irresponsibility of the Spanish Government to try to solve a problem of natural politics by judicial means. Look, what is irresponsible is to believe that separatist parties are above the law and that they have total impunity. What did you think? That they have a layer of superpowers and a book of impunity? Is that what you've been thinking? Look, there's no way to take this resolution. They tell us about legality, but facts that are not true. And then, on a slow fire, they spice them up to their liking. Do you know who judicializes politics? Those who skip the laws; it's very simple. And besides, the fugitives of justice, too. We continue with more mantras: "It has generated a democratic regression without precedent and we have seen with concern how the fundamental rights are violated and the separation of powers is progressively degraded. Remember, please: democratic regression is the legal burden of disconnection laws, which could leave any law, whether local, autonomous, national, European or international, unenforceable. They charged the separation of powers and granted absolute power to Puigdemont and his friends. Yes, those friends I could name finger in the Supreme Court, those friends. That's the way you have to act. You also speak of a violation of political rights, but in our view it is an indecency that you speak of a violation of political rights. The same who refused on 6 and 7 September in this Parliament and who also tried to repeal the Constitution, the Statute and our entire legal system. It is very important to remind them that you have given a coup d'état, and we will also continue to remind them. We continue with more things: "With regard to civil and political rights, it is not only a mandate that is the fruit of the Spanish legal framework, particularly the Spanish Constitution itself. Are you kidding me? That is to say, do you refer to the Spanish Constitution, to the same Spanish Constitution which you wanted to repeal and which you wanted to put out of effect, which broke the separation of powers, and which concentrated absolute power on Mr Puigdemont? Look, don't give us any lessons in democracy or rights violations. They also continue with the same mantra of: « Drawings of institutions, organizations and personalities of the world... And I ask them: what institutions? The same ones that were paid through the Diplomat? The same ones that we have had to ask for information and seek amparo from the Bureau of this Parliament for information on which entities were paid with the Diplomat? Remember that the German court itself has made it clear that there are no prisoners in Spain for political reasons; I do not know whether the resolution has been read. Neither has any European country said it, nor has the United Nations said it, nor has Amnesty International said it. Even the Martin Luther King Foundation has told them to stop using their name. Politicians in pre-trial detention and fugitives from justice can go to European jurisdiction and to the United Nations thanks to Spain, thanks to the Spanish State. Because the Spanish State has ratified conventions and treaties with these international bodies. But, if you want, we can talk about some who have given their support, some ultras: we talk about Vlaams Belang, Matteo Salvini, True Finns, Alternative for Germany. And these do not appear in your motion for a resolution. These have indeed given them support. Look, this motion for a resolution could go so far as to be another report on the proceedings syndicate, in the same way that it never talks about the violation of rights suffered by Catalans who are not separatists; the same syndic of the proceedings that none of the millions of Catalans, who still do not know where it was on 6 and 7 September, that syndic that has been Olympicly passed by all Catalans; the same syndic that on 26 October 2017 was meeting with the committee for rebellion, was meeting in this Parliament with the committee for rebellion. This gentleman has not come to apologize to all Catalans or come to explain. But this is not new, they have already duplicated another new political chiringuito. To see, Mr. Aragonès, I have come to tell you that they have created the Office for the Defense of Civil Rights i Politics, and they are directing the Office to Mr. Adam Majó, of the Movement of the Defense of the Earth, linked to Terra Lliure, a radical anti-system that puts it at your command. I ask you: why hasn't your resume been hung up on the website of this office either? Because he barely has a career, or maybe he has to hide something? It is also an office created, specifically, on 1 October 2018. What was this: Mr. Torra's encouragement to the CDRs, to the commanders? It was a breath and you named them here, wasn't it? On October 1st, Mr. Adam Majó was appointed as the head of this office; something very normal. Well, maybe you have to remember these pictures, too, don't you? [[the orator shows them to the chamber]] Maybe because you're... well, you're... this gentleman is a friend of this character, a convicted terrorist... don't these images ring a bell? [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, this is an office created on October 1, 2018, exactly the day the commandos attempted to assault Parliament, and also with the encouragement of Mr.Totra. Is this the prize to be squeezed, Mr. Torra? Is this the person who has to defend our civil and political rights? Look, we could go on, but we're going to focus on the violation of rights, which you're not going to talk about in this committee. For example, we could talk about physical and verbal aggressions to non-independent people; that's for sure not going to be discussed. From the commission of inquiry, from espionage to non-independence political parties, obviously. From the motion of coexistence, in which they have not condemned violence, and in this case I also have to tell the friends of Podemos or the friends of the PSC: in many municipalities..., in the case of Sitges, I can say that they resigned that day so that they did not have to vote on that motion. Or even in Sant Joan Despí, in Sant Just Desvern, Sant Vicenç dels Horts or in Abrera. They will also not talk about the boycott and the intention to ban public demonstrations and public acts. With this they intend to formalize a dictatorship; they did so on 6 and 7 September. In addition, the use of personal data to make an illegal act; yes, Mr Aragonés: the theft of personal data from all Catalans, and which depended on the office you carry. And also other violations of rights, such as the current President of the Generalitat calling us "beasts with human form. [[Widow's remorse.]] Is this going to be discussed in this committee, Mr Torra? From your articles? Of the statements of ungrateful persons, those who think differently or simply..., evidently by municipalities governed by separatist parties? Nor will there be any talk of attacks on political party headquarters or public signals. Insults, too, from public television, which we pay all Catalans; also non-separatist Catalans are insulted every day. The violation, too, of linguistic rights to those parents who want to school their children in Spanish. Nor will we talk, as is normal, in the separatist world, therefore, about the neutrality of institutions in the public space. And I'm not sure we're going to talk about the forty-five decrees that I had in the drawer to turn Catalonia into a dictatorship, Mr. Salvadó. Yes, in a dictatorship, according to the chapuza of legal transitoryity, because obviously, if they have read it, they did not have to be validated. The proposal you are making has an absolute lack of rigour. They use the institutions to create this new chiringuito. You are looking for a different purpose, which is to deepen the social conflict, the fracture, victimism and its modus vivendi, the process. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mr Ferran Pedret. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.4.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, vice president, and president also, deputies and deputies, come up with the creation of this committee of study on civil and political rights, and the truth is that, reading– before making reference to it the deputy of Ciutadans – the exhibition of motius, one might ask for the need to establish a committee of study, because the conclusions are all gathered in the same exhibition of motius. It is a question that is common in the committees of study which are proposed by the majority of the Parliament, or in this case by the Bureau or the Presidency of the Bureau of the Parliament, but it does not cease to be curious. I can hear the reasons for including the conclusions already in the explanatory statement, because, on other occasions when they have invited us to form part of study commissions, they have not allowed us to present the conclusions. I remember with great regret as the Commission of Study of the Right to decide, very interesting in its development, so they did not allow us, for so much that we asked for it for two occasions, to move to the conclusion phase and to present each of our conclusions; this could be a motif. The second possible reason is that, announced already a date of the end of the legislature, then certain days uncertain when, right? On the day of the judgment, then, perhaps better, if not up to the end of the study committee's work, already anticipate them in the presentation of motius. But, of course, it is of little intellectual honesty to pretend to create a study commission involving all groups and to anticipate who the conclusions are. In any case, tell them: we are absolutely willing to talk to you, to all groups and to whom there are democratic setbacks that are taking place throughout Europe, the first of which, without any doubt, is the social state. And I would say that anyone who does not agree that the lamination of the social state, the retreat in the guarantee of social rights, has a very important impact on various fundamental rights, the most important of which is freedom, ignores the need for a material basis of freedom. This is happening all over Europe, it has passed with special intensity in the southern European countries, where in the context of the crisis policies of retailing have applied that go beyond investing in assumptions, in social parties of assumptions, but they also want to see the degradation of working conditions, with the change of model towards a model absolutely based on precarious and poorly paid work, etc. There have also been retreats to all of Europe, with special intensity to the east, in this case, in the matter of separation of powers..., let's say, we could summarise, all of them, in the will, in various states of the European Union, and no longer say in some that they do not belong, to build a model that I would say is an oximoron, but a model of unliberal democracy, right? : this idea, even presented in public without any modestness, for Viktor Orbán, when he says that his is a model of unliberal democracy. To us, as part of the tradition of democratic socialism, which has its roots in the ideas of the French Revolution, obviously afterwards, in the evolution of the thinking of all the traditions of the emancipator thinking coming from the working class, it seems to us that the basis of any democratic society must complement at least, but not only with the principles of liberal democracy. And, obviously, move forward, from our perspective, to a model of social democracy. But, certainly, all this is happening, it's happening in Europe, it's happening in Catalonia, it's happening in Spain as well. And, against these policies of democratic backwardness, our political formation, together with many others, has faced it: it has fought in the streets, with mobilization, in its parliament, and through all the lives it has, also presenting resources of unconstitutionality against laws that we have not shared, in matter, let us say, of citizen security, of reforms of the penal sphere, etc. But, well, what happens is that we are absolutely willing to talk about it, but what we are not willing to do is to participate in a farce in which the report is already written and in which it is intended to contribute to a global propaganda action, in which it is claimed that the State in which we live is an authoritarian, non-democratic, comparable state – as the majority of Parliament's spokespersons have often said, whether it is here in Parliament or sometimes in interviews and statements to media – in Erdogan Turkey, and other expressions that have been used. To us it seems, let us say, an absolutely disheartened criticism, which, to the extent that it is, then incurs falsehood, and more than it does not contribute people to adding all possible energies to the democratic deepening that I believe many people from Spain want. Because it is clear that when you were talking here about the authoritarian response, a democratic regression without precedent, the violation of fundamental rights, the degradation of the separation of powers and the risk landscape for the state of law, I could not help but refer to the texts of the famous Law of Referendum and Law of Legal Transition. It was that we seemed to be defining the contents of these texts and the attitude with which they tried to make them effective and to repeal with this the Constitution and the Statute. If I don't get caught, let's say, a more concentrated and effective attack than the one they tried on September 6th and 7th. They tried to leave all of Catalonia's citizenship without the rights that recede and that are used for the Spanish Constitution and for the Statute of Autonomy, all in one session, let's be sure, let's say, that it advanced to baptisms and with a more than descriptive spectacle, but go, let's say it, as you say, in a pim-pam, huh? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's say, vote, a majority that would not be enough to name the sindicum of hardships or to modify a coma of the Statute, the repeal of the Constitution and of the Statute and leave us to all folds, therefore, to the arbiter of a law – which I continue to insist that for the fact that year encapsulated with this word it cannot be considered such, because a law must be dictated by an organ that can do so and through established procedures – but in any case, by an articulated text, with which you intend to subtend to everyone that you do not think like yourself. Home, it seems to me rather curious, let's say, the slender and partial view they have of things. Because we're willing to grant... well, it's not like it's a concession, it's like we share with the majority that there's been a worrying drift to the Spanish State over the past few years. But you also have to recognise that on the part of the majority of Parliamentarians in the previous legislature, on the part of the Government – and we understand from the statements of the current Government is maintained the intention to follow this path – there is also a drift that does not fully comply with democratic principles. Because I tried to explain to him the last parliamentary term – certainly without successful people –: the democratic principle is not just the rule of the majority; a majority cannot do it all, not just in a parliament, not in a parliament, not in that it is an autonomous parliament, in a parliament a majority can do it all, because there must be the majority principle, obviously; there must be respect for the procedures and guarantees of the procedure, and there must be respect for minorities, parliamentarians, who, in this case, from the social and electoral point of view, therefore, is questionable, as at the very least, the question. Therefore, without these three powers, the action of the majority of Parliament, therefore, did not comply strictly and faithfully with the democratic principle, was another thing. So, let's say, the classics in calling the dictatorship of the majority, but it was not an act that was really labeled as a purely democratic act, for many of you think you are impelled and almost the only interpreters of the will of the people. Clearly, this is relatively easy to do, in this period of inflationary phase of the statement of traitors and botiflers, in what has settled the process, isn't it? As, let's say, anyone who disagrees with the way in which you want to do things and what you want to do is immediately expelled, I would say excommunicated, from the nation and the people, so, then, clearly, of course, from this vision in which everyone who disagrees is expelled from the people, the people of Catalonia want one thing. What's going on is that they're very small, huh? You can only see social networks in the last days as the abst of treason and botiflerism up to extremely unsuspected, you, and all the friends and friends of the Republican Left. Clearly, in the end, there will be no more than a revolutionary director of four cats, pure, but, listen, with absolute inability to connect with the social reality of the country. So, we ask them to come looking for us for a committee of studies on civil and political rights with a more honest intention and then maybe they'll find us there. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.5.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs. Elisenda Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.6.0	Good morning, everybody. The proposal for the creation of the Commission of Study on Civil and Political Rights states that the judicialization of politics and the regression of rights and fundamental freedoms that have been practised against Catalonia, and not only against Catalonia, has not contributed anything whatsoever. But we also have the opportunity today to go further, and the moment we find ourselves as the country is surely more than obliged to do so: to address also the violation of civil and political rights in a broader sense, a violation that did not begin yesterday or two years ago. We come here after a political cycle that began with a crisis that denied political elites; with austerity, while some made their goals worse with the public erarium; with cuts in social rights like in Europe; with the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the State, which denied that Catalonia was a political subject and therefore deserved to decide its future; with policies that were made restricting rights and phonenal freedoms, such as the Mordassa law, which wanted to silence tweeters, singers, but also critics in general; but above all, with the separation and disaffection of society from the parties and institutions. We have lived a political cycle in the last two years marked by the exhaustions of an era, of a regime; a society that did not get answers in its day-to-day, in its backs, to its questions from the institutions. Exhaustions of an era that they have only had as the blind, deaf, political response, something that we cannot allow again if we do not want to live in an eternal deja-vu. It is in this cycle that rights and freedoms have effectively narrowed down, when political action has passed through the courts – political justice, its failures, its sluggishness – with a name: Llarena. Matusser interpretations of a court, at the time of seeing rape in peaceful mobilizations, a rape that neither see German courts nor hundreds of lawyers from the Spanish State who reject the accusation of rebellion. But Llarena's name is more than the name of a judge, it represents the inertia of a path that was driven by the People's Party government and that cannot be sealed by the new Government of Spain. Certainly, and that is true, there is not a small number of people who have experienced the change to the Government of Spain to start listening to the citizens' requests. We drove away from Moncloa thieves and corrupts, we also took off those who held them in power for years, but we all know that the catal case is only the tip of the lance and also the possibility of the sack to Spanish politics, which is no longer served only by gestures. Pedro Sánchez can take the first political step to end the inertia of the judicialization of the People's Party policy. A very expensive way. Does the cost of this route know how much it meant only in three days, September 30th and October 1nd and October 2nd, by the conjunction of the State? Twenty-seven million euros. A humane and democratic economic cost that was patiently inflicted not on one side but on the entire Catalan society. And today, as he also guaranteed civil and political rights, I would like to make a note of the king's speech on October 3, the speech of King Philip VI. The king with the speech of October 3 endorsed the police violence of October 1 and was disqualified to guarantee the civil and political rights of Catalonia. Today, we convey the feeling of 82 per cent of Catalan society that the monarchy is an opaque, obsolete institution that does not represent anyone at all because no one voted for it. Catalonia today will have the opportunity to prove that it does not give the monarchy a plea. And if you can listen to us today, let us give it to you in castle: it was never and will never be our king, because we defend and will always defend our republican values. Today we also have the opportunity to launch this message. But sadly, as I said, the violation of civil and political rights in recent years has not only come from the structure of the Government of Spain. If the goal is to respond to the exhaustions of a new era to build a new country, we cannot look to another side. We believe that these elements should also be present in this committee, in the work plan of this committee, because the violation of civil and political rights has also been experienced by bodies of the Generality. Not going far enough. During the past decade there have been numerous cases of torture and ill-treatment by the Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squad. Last year the Coordinator for the Prevention of Torture reported that twenty-two people had suffered ill-treatment on the part of the Squadron Mosses. Cannot accept any situation of violation by the police of a democratic country of the 21st century. It has also been known that the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. These practices are intolerable, they are an indignity that we cannot accept in a full democracy. Is putting through a commission that wants to investigate precisely this, the best way to work for a country with more guarantees of civil and political rights? I don't think so. Not to mention the approval of Taser guns, ignoring the pronouncements of the Committee against Torture of the United Nations. Do these decisions bring us closer to building a country that is freer and fairer? I don't think so. More often, in this case you relate to racism. Last year SOS Racisme attended 485 people who suffered situations of racism in Catalonia; 29 per cent of them by police officers. Increase in LGTBifóbia, only last year was recorded one hundred_11 cases; a 32_per_cent more than 2016. A LGBTIphobia that could not be fought with resources from the Administration, which detailed its premise in Catalonia at the same rate as the Popular Party did in Madrid. But not only that, for years the rights of all and all have been violated when the Government of the Government of the United States was practicing detail on schools, on hospitals, on all public services, placing itself as the austere student of Europe. It is not possible to say that we will build a newer, more just, free country, if the political elites of this country send us young people from Catalonia to serve coffee to foreign countries. It is precisely these details that opened the state of the welfare in Catalonia in the canal; those that made the people more vulnerable; those that made us lose our rights. It is these details and the lack of response of the institutions to the exhaustion of a rule, which also made many and many we take the step. There were many of us who fought hard with the occupation of CAPs to prevent tankers, with camping places to report that politicians did not respond to people's demands. It is these proposals that made the people who would never have thought they should enter the institutions to say exactly this: that they should put the institutions in the service of the citizenry, because never more policies act in an unpunished way on the people's desk. It is at this moment when we take the commitment to contribute that institutions give response to people and put control of the old ones, of those who have used institutions of all for the benefit of a few. And it's on this path, on the way to building institutions that respond to citizens' demands and on the back of Catalonia where we are now. No one can think it's possible to build a Catalunya nova without hearing how we've come to this. And for the vast majority of the citizenry, believe me, it has been with a lot of patience. Catalan institutions must do their dues in the defence of civil and political rights because they have unfortunately followed the day-to-day life of the citizenry. If it really is up to us to build a new Catalonia, it will only be coming to those collections that have not for a long time seen and exposed a violation of civil and political rights, which has also been the protagonist of the Government of this country. A country worth living can only build up answers to advance society, protect and win rights. We want to be proud of our country. We want to be proud of a country that assures us of answers when we lack work, when we want to study, when we have illnesses; we want to be proud of a country that guarantees public services. In this, and come from where the violation of civil and political rights comes, they will always find us to build a new future for our people. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.8.0	Thank you, President. For the CUP - Cry They are the object of this motion for a resolution is, altogether, sufficient. We anticipate, however, that we will vote in favour of it, since its objective seems to be limited to us and, as a matter of fact, it seems to me that it is not. In the same way that you decided to promote a commission on the effects of 155, we have not yet sunk the creation of a commission on October 1. And this PR leaves the opportunity to make it effective again. If the 155_was the act of violation of the most difficult Catalan self-government perpetrated by the Spanish State of Francoism, October 1 was not only one of the most important democratic revolts in Europe and one of the most worthy chapters of the history of this people, but also one of the moments of major repression and violation of the rights that the continent has experienced in the past decades; some repressive and anti-democratic facts, even by the Spanish monarch hero of Francoism, and with the complicity of all parties and institutions of the regime, for which the State has not only done autocriticism and has not taken any repair, but also with the help of all parties and institutions of the regime, for which the State has not yet done so, has not yet done so. Events such as these would deserve a parliamentary commission that you can spare, clarify and manifest all the facts related to October 1, 2017, that makes visible in your parliament the magnitude and detail of the democratic act that featured the people that participated in it, and that put lights and stenographers to the violence and violation of rights in which the State and all its accomplices were running. Such a parliamentary task would contribute, in a sense of doubt, to the cause of truth and dignity, and would be useful in demanding responsibilities and reparations from the Spanish State, also in the international arena. As this committee on October 1 is not yet established, our parliamentary group will also raise all these questions in the committee on civil and political rights which it is now seeking to promote. But we will not only bring this focus. Its generalist character, as it has been established, will also invite us to address it in all cases of violations of civil and political rights that occur in Catalonia: the recent repression by the Government of the Generalist of anti-faixist and independentist movement; the repression of people who are resisting it by name defending their fundamental right to housing; the repression of people who are unable to defend their fundamental right to housing; the repression of those who are aware of the patriarchy and violence of men and women, and the repression of people who are resisting it; the repression of those who are unable to defend their fundamental right to housing, with a special focus of attention, which follows in the CIS; the right of women and people in the country; the right of those who are not personally affected, with a special focus of attention, which is followed by the CIS; the right of women and people in the public; the right to participate in society, with a special focus of attention, which happens in the CIS; and the right to participate in the past before us. We will also raise, in this committee on civil and political rights, the problem that this Parliament has not been able to solve, and they are the unworthy suspensions of civil and political rights, I insist, of Members and Members, but also of their constituents. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.9.0	Thank you, Mr Riera. Now is the return of Mrs. Andrea Levy, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.10.0	Thank you, President. You announce the Commission for the Studies of Civil and Political Rights. With already written conclusions, not because I put it, indeed, the argument of the very creation of the conclusion, but because these conclusions have been written by you for a long time. This is the account of independence: a people, a thought – yours, the only one that exists. And, therefore, you do not want to talk about political and civil rights – all of you – you want to talk about your privileges and your own jurisdiction of impunity. Because if they wanted to talk about political rights, we could actually go back to those political rights that were banned from opposition in this Parliament on 6 and 7 September. Because if you want to talk about political rights, you should also ask yourself why the sieges that are being permanently assaulted are those of the opposition to independence. Have you come to rob the headquarters, to burn the headquarters, the friends of the UPC, with the rush and fast camera at that time, of TV3, to make the press conference and laugh at what had happened? No, no, Because the political rights that are being violated here are just not yours. Because when a Home Secretary speaks that he does not like demonstrations and that he would ban them, they are not his, they are not those of the opposition of this Parliament. Because Mr Torra does not call you « beasts, it is called to the opposition in this Parliament. Because when they use tax data illegally, they don't care about the civil rights of Catalans, they worry about their story: a people, a thought. Because I'm going to tell you one thing. Look, to me – Mr. Torra, this is going to interest you–, for forty_minutes– forty long minutes–, yours, those you call to "squeeze around," surrounded me – so that I could not walk freely through a people of Catalonia. Do you think that my political rights and those of those accompanying me were respected at that time? Or that this was an act of dehumanization that purports to perpetrate nationalism to those we do not think like you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Perfect– perfect. But you know what? It's just that I respect the law. And I'm covered by democratic law. And when you call 'the beasts of the opposition in this Parliament', it turns out that you are told that it is not as cult or as intellectual as you think it is, but rather that it is a racist and that it incites hatred. And that is the difference between respecting political and civil rights and not doing so. The same is not to respect civil and political rights by spying on opposition leaders and journalists who do not like you. And not there, there you, of course, said no, that we should not follow that committee of inquiry. Democracy has shown just resistance to its imposition, to its will to put an end to all of us, to the political dissent in this Parliament which is so distasteful to them and which is why they treat our language as a language of imposition. Well, it has just been thanks to the Spanish democracy that guarantees these political and civil rights that cannot end us, because it is that democracy that is safeguarding us. Look, I do propose that you set up a study commission. The study committee in which they study themselves – and believe me, in that I am going to participate – as they have ended or tried to end this pluralism and tolerance of Catalan society. A committee of studies on yourselves, the independenceists, why you are now fighting and trying to close this parliamentary chamber when you are interested because you do not agree. A committee of study on yourselves, the independenceists, why we are no longer the bad guys, but you, as the Socialist Party's colleague said, are already called "botiflers and traitors, as you have always wanted to point out to someone who thinks differently. A commission of study on themselves, the independenceists, is needed to realize the failure to which they have led Catalan society; failure because they do not have a majority, because they know they have lost and because it is time for them to wake up and realize that they cannot continue to treat Catalonia like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Yes, Mr. Batet, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.12.0	On a point of order, Mr President. We ask the Bureau before the insults that Mrs Levy has made to the President of the Government of Catalonia, calling him racist and propitiating hatred. We believe that they are not close to a Parliament in Catalonia and a Member here in Parliament, and that is why we are asking you to take over our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.13.0	Thank you, Mr. Batet. I think you're right. As noted in the Rules, not only do you take care of language, but, as you know, do not miss the rest of the Members. And I believe, honestly, that Mr. Batet is right. Therefore, I offer you the opportunity, Mrs Levy, to withdraw the insults you have made to the President, and, if not, obviously, we will have to deal with this at the Bureau of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.14.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ...to withdraw all the insults you have uttered in your articles against Catalans who do not think like him? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.15.0	I understand that this is a no. Therefore, we will transfer this matter to the Bureau and deal with it. Thank you. We're still on the table. It is now the return, on the part of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.16.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, let us withdraw this intervention with a certain perplexity already of entry, right? Some of the speeches I just heard. And, in fact, with some doubt: I don't know how to qualify, Mrs Levy, for cleaning Badalona and cleaning some cities. [[Greetings.]] I would like you to clarify the racism of your party – this one I would like you to clarify. That said, yes..., also a certain perplexity, and, here, more than perplexity, probably political pain – they already understand me – also with the intervention of Mr Pedret and the Socialist Group. And I'm telling you with all due respect – and you know it – but I don't think the Socialist Party should vote against a committee that has as its object the study of civil and political rights in Catalonia or any part of the world. And, frankly, the position of the Socialist Party in deep pain, Mr Pedret, and you should reflect. Because I don't believe this about the speech, I honestly say it, because you know it's not a vote – you know it's not a vote. Therefore, if you say: "No, no, you... Objection: the study on the situation of civil and political rights in Catalonia; this is the object – this is the object. You vote against this. And then he says to me: "No, because they have the conclusions girls. Listen to me, you presented us, two months ago, a commission entitled "On espionage to journalists and politicians on behalf of the government". End of story. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't suppose I don't know what else or what else. It's so incongruous, Mr. Pedret! It is so incongruous and painful to me, its political position, to turn the skein – to turn the skein – to the civil and political rights that are being violated today in Catalonia, that I believe the Socialist Party should reflect, and a lot – and a lot. That said, indeed, the study committee is about the civil and political rights that are being violated, today, in our country. That's it. They like it better or they like it less. And, finally, the intervention of the Ciutadans Group, in fact, followed a violation of rights, oral, diguessim, from the first word, from the « thanks to the « final thanks». Just like that. Actually, I think – I think – one of the rights that is recognized is reinsertion, right? But you insist that one day someone was judged and I don't know what, and so on... But you, with everything you say – with everything you say, with everything you say – are contradictory. And, it's more – it's more – attacking civil rights in all their interventions; in the face of a question, of course, that is: « Against independence is worth everything – everything. It's just like what we do or don't do, against independence is all. He says: "You have not been robbed of your party. So yes, yes, with Nazi paints, yes. I pose-hi "localized. And putting his last names on it, yeah. And they cremated the Popular Athenaeum of Sarria a few months ago. And you turned the board. "CDR's, you're dead. So yes, ma'am Levy, yes, assault. It assaults Spanishism, fascism, its and popular athenaeums. But, of course, this is the permanent incongruity. Say – a campaign, this summer – « Neutral beaches – Neutral beaches. Neutral public spaces. Neutral beaches. And the proposal is to hire a small plane to travel all the beaches of Catalonia with a Ciutadans logo saying: "Start ties, Catalans, come. Are these the neutral beaches that Ciutadans proposes, really? - Really? Lists, we don't want to make lists. « You make lists of good and bad Catalans, etcetera. So I saw Mr. Rivera hanging out a list of teachers from Sant Andreu de la Barca, checking them with the photos, with his home addresses. [[Greetings.]] With his home addresses! And do you know what's going on? These are the lists you make, these are the lists. And do you know what's going on? Mr. Carrizosa, you're not nervous. Do you know what's going on? - Do you know what's going on? That they've absolved them. They've filed the case, and you've appointed professors who were doing their job. And they're absolved! [[Greetings.]] And they talk about neutrality, when what they want to say is that there is not a single independence symbol, when what you want to say with neutrality is that you do not want a stellate, that you do not want an independence symbol, that you do not want political opinion – that you, absolutely legitimately, do not share – to express yourself. I say: "You treat us as second-rate citizens. Another one of the classics, diguessim. Okay. I don't think so, humbly – I don't think so. That said – said that – clearly, I have doubts about the citizens of second, when, for example, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group – the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group – presents, as a parliamentary group, a complaint because they allegedly assaulted a lady at the gates of the Ciutadella Park. And, like the Citadans Parliamentary Group, they file a complaint, because they think there's been an assault, and they have all the right, huh? I'm not questioning that right now. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! One week later, in an act organized for Ciutadans, full of citizens' activists – the activists, therefore, saw, at the first they did not see, at the second they did, because there were – attack a television camera, but here Ciutadans has not denounced anyone. What do you mean, "no"? - How come you don't? Because maybe it's you who think there are first-class citizens and second-class citizens. I don't know. This is the reality: when it's of an ideology you get very involved; when it's of another you say you can't look. And we're coming, of course, to the locks in the buildings, aren't we? , and a great battle to pull the links, which now do so, with impossible Mission music, and some videos with zoom in, zoom out, or Pirates of the Caribbean, something like that, right? You know, some music that's tense. They say there can be no connections in public buildings. Okay. This is the Ministry of Health. [[The orator shows an image to the chamber.]] There was a lilac on the day of the feminist wave. I'm saying that because you gave support to this government. It's okay, isn't it? Yeah, it's a pleasure. It's okay because I understand it's a majority feeling, isn't it? And so, as we all share it, it's fine. All right – all right, all right. And this one, what does it divide? [[The orator shows an image to the chamber.]] The banner of Real Madrid? I'm saying that because it's another government that you support. Is the sign of Madrid possible to hang? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, there's no Barça! Is the one in Madrid possible? It's no longer a question of whether he divides or not. Oh, okay, that's another story. That's right, that's pot. All right, all right, all right, all right, all So let's give him the last one. [[The orator shows an image to the chamber.]] Flag on political prisoners, Comunidad de Madrid, supported by you: « Leopoldo, freedom now. Ah, on these political prisoners, can they hang banners, in buildings where you govern? [[Greetings.]] About these yes? About Leopoldo, yes. On freedom now, political prisoners, yes. Ah, to the Community of Madrid. Clear! Of course! Of course! Because they're not independent. You have a permanent battle against independence. You, on land, sea, air and as usual, try to defeat a political, democratic, peaceful option, such as independence. But we're here, and that's why we're running a civil rights commission. All violations of independence? Not only; for all the flagrant violations that exist in our country. And the most flagrant violation is that today we're having this debate and six days from now it's going to be a year that Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez, who should be sitting here, they're ready. [[Greetings.]] Because Oriol Junqueras and Quim Forn 342 days ago they're busy. Because in Raül Romeva, in Josep Rull and the Low Pain, in Jordi Turull, 234 days ago they are engaged. Because Carme Forcadell, President of Parliament, 202. And they're not the only ones, because there are people in exile, there are thousands of lawsuits, there are mayors and there are directors who are being persecuted for their political activity. And we do, we want to do a civilian right commission to analyze this. [[the speaker shows the document to the chamber]] which is the Declaration of Human Rights, which is the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which is what is also recognized in its sacrosanct Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy. Miri, you read article by article and you will see – and you will – how everything is being violated. They're violating all the rights. Look, you know what this is? [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] It's a white folly. All right, they got it right. But look, look at what's under it: the magazine of Omnium, because they have to send it so that it can be sent by mail, because they secreted it in the month of October, a magazine of a civil entity, that they have to send it with a blank sheet before it because, if not, they didn't send it. Don't you realize the flagrant violation of rights in our country every day? But not just with the magazine of Omnium – not just. Everybody says we're the same before the law, but there's someone, monarch, who's inviolable. Or even yesterday we saw Franco's net absolved him to run over two civilian guards. You're funny, aren't you? After you say that to bid a Civil Guard car with permission they must be thirty years in prison. But it seems to us that they absolve Franco's nets to hit a Civil Guard patrol. [[Greetings.]] It must be that we're all the same before the law. Human rights speak that they cannot tolerate torture. So the European Court of Human Rights has condemned the Spanish State on various occasions to torture, in the Spanish State, and, certainly, to which it is now Minister of the Interior, in its mandate as a judge, said, not to investigate torture. They collect the right to honour, to personal intimacy, and you in every speech brand in emails, texts obtained unlawfully and unlawfully, and you in political speeches, also violating human rights. They can express opinions freely. That's what human rights say, and all the statements you want. And we see Willy Toledo coming to court to shit himself, it seems, in God; singers are sentenced to prison; tutors are sentenced to prison; we see how it is forbidden to exhibit to Arc; we see how it was to secretate the book of Fariña, and so we can go on. And we could continue with the right of assembly, and how it was violated in the campaign of '1 October, and of association, and of active suffrage, and of effective judicial protection or the right to vacate. This was all violated in just one year. And, if you believe that Parliament should turn the scene and not analyse the violations of rights that we are living in Catalonia, I think it's you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.17.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.18.0	...the ones who have a problem. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.19.0	Mr. García Albiol, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.20.0	President, for allusions by Mr Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.21.0	I didn't hear the al·ludís, Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.22.0	So I should have tuned the ear a little more, because Mr. Gómez has devoted himself to... look, I'm not gonna tell myself what's insulting me anymore...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.23.0	No, no, listen, I didn't give you the word, Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.24.0	No, but he did alluded to me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.25.0	He's trying to justify that he's alluded to him, and Congressman Gomez of Moral hasn't alluded to him– he hasn't alluded to him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.26.0	So if you say so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.27.0	Keep going. The word is now spoken by the deputy, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Frenchman of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.28.0	Thank you very much, President. President Torra, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, guests who accompany us, staff of the house, who take care of us very much..., look, talking about civil rights and politics seemed to me that there was no better way to start than to give sight to those people who do not want their eyes to be heard in this Parliament. And, therefore, I will begin with a few words from Councillor Turull addressed to Judge Llarena, but they ask us all. He said: "I will not give up my political convictions. I will not cease to be an independentist or to defend the independence of Catalonia. I will not accept, Your Honor, your invitation to abandon my political commitment. I won't. And it's not like that, ma'am, how the political conflict in Catalonia will be resolved. It will be resolved with politics, politics and politics. It will resolve with dialog, dialog and dialog. This was my purpose and my will: to make politics, dialogue, pact and agreement. Words of Jordi Turull. (Applause.) And, as we are talking about civil and political rights – and the progress that we are making, that we are, of course, voting in favour of it – we would like it to be that it was not a circumstantial commission, that it was like these legislative commissions, because the defence of human rights, the defence of civil and political rights is a task that must always be done, they are never guaranteed, they are never guaranteed enough. In fact, let's say what recognition, knowledge and promotion of human rights is like in your country, and I'll tell you what democratic quality you have, and let's tell you what kind of violation you're a fan, like the tripods and I'll tell you the low democratic quality of your country. And the first..., the first way to see how we respect democracy in a country is as we respect its institutions, as we respect Parliament, the syndicate, the government, the presidency, which itself is an institution. How do you like to talk about rebel committee, deputy, in a process that has been civil, peaceful and democratic, that has been scrupulously civil, peaceful and democratic? And when we talk about civil and political rights and we do it in this house, there are 135 scons in this house, and you know what happens? That they vote one hundred and thirty – that they vote one hundred and thirty. It has been decided that President Puigdemont, that the Councillors Comín, Rull, Turull and the President of my parliamentary group in Jordi Sánchez, do not vote, do not take their votes into account. And that's terrible for them, but do they know who it's terrible for? For hundreds of thousands of people who signed them names and surnames, they said: "I want you to be my representative. Who is considered worthy to cast all these votes on paper? And do you know what happened, too, terrible? That there were seven people who we also referred to as the Catalan society that had to be in this Parliament, five women and two men, and who were forced to leave their school for the judicial persecution they suffered for ideological reasons. Because there shouldn't be President Torrent here today, there should be President Forcadell there. And at the government bench we should be the Councillors Serret, Ponsati, Bassa, the Councillors Forn and Puig and the deputy Marta Rovira should be listening to us. Does the Catalan society vote so much for them? If they were in a country far away and explained to them that there are five votes that do not take into account a parliament and that there are seven people who have been forced to leave their minutes, wouldn't they find it terrible? Shouldn't we be in revolt? How is it that even the committees, that have a clear-cut rule, have there been presidents who are allowed to question the weighted vote? Clearly, in the elections of 21 December, some groups have 34 seats, the other 32, the other 4, and this generates a weighted vote. In this, too, they try to violate the democratic will of this country. Miri, do you know how to defend civil and political rights in this country? So look, leaving the hundreds of mayors accused in the macro cause of '1 October, leaving the masters behind. The mayors, I say, who are accused not..., no, not to be independent, but to do their work of mayors and mayors, to serve their lives, because they can vote yes or not to abstain. And in this very macro-cause we have seen how curiously they respected the civil and political rights of the Catalan people, accusing of hate crime someone who is posing a red nose or serving reports from the Civil Guard saying protesters launch paper planes. Look, the problem with the Spanish State is not Catalonia, it's the Spanish State. And those who consider themselves Spanish, who legitimately consider themselves Spanish, should be very concerned. Before a congressman said that this is not Turkey. So you know what Lluís Llach was explaining to us? That even in the darkest times of the franchise he had been sentenced to three and a half years of prison a music for a letter. And that's happening now. They don't even take jobs, do they? They don't take jobs away from the arts. Don't even go for it. You're not going to go for it. Nor did people brutally touch their lives in Murcia. And, of course, we don't have young girls who are in Brussels, exiles, or Tamara, who can't get out of their village. But not for non-existent crimes, no, no, it's not that we don't want to talk about non-existent crimes: to exercise their rights, to exercise their rights: the right to demonstration, the right to freedom of expression, the right to assembly. Consecrate these rights and, for where, locate Spain, the Spanish State, outside of international legality. Because I remember that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which was approved by 66– Spain approved it on the 77th, because you already know, at the time of the Francoism, eleven years; the post-Franchism has also been much more flourishing, for which you see it– but in any case, you remain out of international legality when you have in doubt these rights. And he was talking about Adri, who is now free in Europe, as I am President Puigdemont and the rest of the exiles and exiles, because they are free people, and in the Spanish State they are serious prisoners. And you know why? Because the European Criminal Referendum, which is Germania, the European Criminal Referendum told them: "They are free, there is no crime. And then came Switzerland, Belgium and Scotland, and the ridiculous sidereal of the Spanish government and the ridiculous sidereal of Spanish justice. I, mirin, estimate a language, a culture and a country is optional. I highly recommend that you consider all languages, all cultures, all traditions, because of all things, because it is optional, if you can estimate one, but one, one, one, you know what happens? That one, one, one, one, a big, free one, and then it passes what happens and has to go with it. (Applause.) But with essential democratic principles it's not optional – it's not optional – we all have to find each other. How do we penalize politics? How come they can't find us? How do you protect politics? So protecting this Parliament and its members, they tell Judge Llarena to get his hands off our ballot boxes, to get his hands off our escons, to leave our assemblies and our masters behind, to stop chasing our political and social leaders. And, look, defending civil and political rights will be tired, tired and long, and more than ever, but it is absolutely essential. The easier and the more comfortable they know what it is? Lowering the head to repression: replacing deputies, obliving exile, obliving prison, being punctual, huh? They won't be angry that you give them overnight to be in this Parliament; remember how many people make hundreds of nights that you give them at night can't greet their children or talk to their parents or eat with their friends. And they tell us we don't blow, we don't wake up the beasts. Do you know what's going on? That if the people who preceded us had done this, in this Parliament there would only be men and only men who voted for men, and labor rights and all social conquests would not exist, because all, all and every one of them was illegal at the time. And we, who like to say that we are Members, we are legislators and we have the obligation to create regulations, to create laws that adapt to what the Catalan society asks of us at every moment. And, therefore, listen to one thing, there is no sacred law. Do you know this constitution that they keep in Madrid, that they have the Francois eagle on the front floor and that they keep in Madrid as if it were the incorrupted arm of Santa Teresa? So, look, this one's gonna have to change one day too – this one's gonna have to change one day too. And civil and political rights, we'll say they're not proclaimed, they're practicing, and here, they'll always find us together for Catalonia, because there's a greater compromise than compromise with our voters, which is the compromise with our Republican principles, which is the compromise with the conjunction of Catalan society. And this is supposed to be 135. But do you know what's going on? That if the anessin eliminating all and each and only one is left – only one is left – I would be right, because this is the right cause, this is the right cause and we will never – ever – tire of inviting them to be a shared cause for the 135 Members of this House. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. You finish the speeches, let's proceed to the vote. We're going to vote. [[Long break.]] Well, let's move on, then, to the vote on the motion for a resolution creating a committee of study on civil and political rights. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] Well, a hagin cop recovered the area [[relays]] We shall now proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution establishing a committee of study on civil and political rights was adopted by 72 votes to 56, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the energy transition]] [[302-00006/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the order of the day, which is the Movement following the question to the Government on the energy transition, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please be quiet if you have to leave the room, please. [[Pause.]] To expose it has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.30.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, MPs, MPs, this is a young man who was to be debated in July, who, for reasons of the discrepancies of the parties supporting the Government, was not able to produce, however, the veto here that the debate is produced at a few hours before the panel of scientists of the United Nations presented its final report on the climate change. And this last report is a clear warning, the previous ones were, but this one I think is the key, isn't it? What did this report tell us in the morning? That there is a need for unprecedented transformation to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees as maximum; that the effects of the climate change are already here; that the emissions of winter-effect gases have raised the temperature of the planet, approximately one degree respecting the pre-industrial levels and telling us – and this is the given – that if we want to achieve the goal of not increasing these 1.5 degrees by 2030, which was the tape that had been fixed to us, the decrease in CO2 emissions must be 45_per_cent. And we know from where the emissions come, basically, that it's from two fossil fuels. And, listen, this is a matter of questioning all of us. And, like asking everyone and everyone, we're talking about Catalonia. Catalonia is in the community of the State with major electricity consumption, a 19.1_per_cent. The Catalan Climate Change Law, which is the only law that exists at these times in Spain, tells us that the use of fossil fuels must tend to be nil and that we should try to assume that, by 2030, 50_percent of the demand for electricity must be renewable in order to try to reach the year 2050 at 100_percent. So, mirin, today, the 52.6_per_cent coming from the three nuclear reactors, a 29_per_cent cremating fossil fuels and only a 15.4_per_cent of renewables, fill in the great hydraulics; if this swallows it, we will reach 8_per_cent. In fact, the electricity generation from renewable energy sources, the year 2017, if we compare it with 2016, has dropped a 1,3_per_cent. The year 2017 and the year 2018, the increase in production from renewables to Catalonia was insignificant, not to mention that it did not exist. We also know that transport is one of the main causes of emissions of winter-effect gases, and not just winter-effect gases, which are also contaminant, in the metropolitan area of Barcelona and in other metropolitan areas of the country. We're perfectly connoisseurs. MPs, MPs, can't look at another side, or start implementing more renewables – wind and photovoltaics – or we won't get there in time. In the next twelve years, all the experts tell us, tell us that we need to install around seven thousand megawatts of renewable energy. It's time to move from word to word. The National Energy Transition Pact, which cannot only be an announcement by the Government, which passes it to us every day, must agree with the maximum number of parliamentary groups in this chamber. And why should this be done? So, to send a clear signal to society. We must also serve, the National Energy Transition Pact, to conclude sustainability policies not only with society, but with the Government of the State, a government of the State that is today more sensitive and more compromised by this decarbonization change. To work in favor of public transport, better electrified, with more economic resources of the State, but also resources propitious to the Government of the Generality. We also believe that, at these times, there is a majority in Parliament and also in the Congress of Deputies in favour of the closure of nuclear power stations from the forty years of working life, and that is why we need to deploy alternatives to supply this technology, thinking of the territories and the workers. This is the sense of the reason we present them today: to put energy policies linked to the climate change and a model change produced in the center of Catalonia's future strategy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, to position and defend the papers presented on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, of Mr David Cid. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.32.0	Good morning, all of you. As it is now, we are in an emergency situation. This same week, scientists from the United Nations warn governments that we need bold measures to stop the 1.5-degree temperature rise on our planet. We are, therefore, in front of a debate that is not just a country, but we understand that it is also a civilization. I'm sure all the debates we have in this Parliament are important, but I don't know if there are more important debates than the planet's own survival. It should be possible, in this chamber, that, beyond bars, conflicts, debates, we do not forget what we play and that, by the way, we have a government that governs at least on this issue and that fights against climate change. As I said, the group of scientists and advisors of United Nations warns that, if nothing is done, the scalding of the planet Earth will increase 1.5 degrees by 2030 or, as very late, by 2052. There is a need for unprecedented, rapid and far-reaching changes in electricity, agriculture, transport and industry. Unprecedented changes, which, unfortunately, are contradictory with a government that does not rule, with a government that is installed in chaos and a government that is therefore with economic interests. Can Catalonia reduce the 45_percent of CO2 emissions by 2010, year 2030? Yeah. Can Catalonia be a neutral country in carbon emissions by the year 2050? Yes, but if there is a political will, if there is another government and there is another councillor or councillor, who, unfortunately, already sees what interests her, because today it is not. We have made proposals to strengthen the movement, proposals to improve it. We already told him, in this case, to the proposing group, that it seemed to be bleak, huh? , that was a first step, but that, really, if we wanted to fight the climate change, it would have to go much further. We proposed and proposed the creation of the Environment and Energy Transition Board, as was also done at the level of the Government of the State. Unfortunately, the PSC did not accept our request. Above all, because we believe that a government that has the energy skills located at the firm's consulting office already marks what is its real priority in the fight against climate change. And where are we today? Today we find ourselves in front of a government of the Generality that incompletes in a way saves the Pla de lutte against the climate change of 2010-2020 that approved this same government. There are three advisors, from three different governments, but from the same party, who have done nothing or practically nothing in the fight against climate change. We have also submitted papers asking that, once and for all, we move forward on the targets of wind and solar photovoltaic energy production, where the government is at a distance from what it has approved. And, above all, we have also demanded a message that has not been accepted, unfortunately, that it is that the connection of ships and dugouts in the ports, especially to the port of Tarragona and Barcelona, is electrified, so as to fight against pollution and climate change in some infrastructures that are key to being able to do so. We want to put in value two items that have been accepted. The first is to schedule the new electrified transport infrastructure, such as the train tram to Camp Tarragona, the arrival of line 1 to Badalona, line 3 to Esplugues or the central tram to line 9, basically because we have a Territori advisor – who is more a Territori advisor than not from Medi Ambient – who calendarizes all road infrastructure, but does not fix calendars at the top of public transport infrastructure. And, in the second place, the financing of public transport. It is for us, in this case, the deployment of the Public Transport Finance Act, which, moreover, provides more resources for local administrations to do so, but also, as is said here, that the State increases the resources it devotes to public transport. Already the advances that the new agreement, in this case between the Government Sánchez and Unidos Podemos, advances in the right direction. I'm done. We believe that it is essential that Catalonia do its dues to prevent the temperature rise from 1.5 degrees by 2030 or 2050. But it is essential that courageous, ambitious commitments are made and that the situation of governance that exists at these times in the Generality is reversed. Therefore, we will give support to the young man. We understand that it's a first step, even though it's trepidation, but there's a lot of work left to do. And, sadly, we do want to point out that they are today the cities– for example, the city of Barcelona, which has just won its Pla Clima prize as the best climate in the great European cities–, those who fight in isolation against the climate change before governments that are inoperative, and which debates that are from the country, and which are probably the most important debates that we have today with the Parliament of Catalonia, are absolutely absent, and we see what is important to the Catalan Government today is the fight against climate change. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Narcis Clara.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.34.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councilwoman Chacón, in her first intervention in the plenary, divided the strategy to boost the energy transition into three blocks: the empowerment of the citizenry, the electrification of the economy and the involvement of all actors. Later, in the parliamentary committee, he looked into this problem, as well as possible solutions. Therefore, I will not insist on these aspects, but I will complement some of them, such as now the motius to implement this transition and manage it. The availability and cost of energy sources has been a major concern of any country with a lack of energy resources. Only for this reason, and bearing in mind that Catalonia is a land of sunshine and wind, the promotion of renewable energies should be a country's priority. Tanmateix, this argument, however important, is secondary to the principles of the 21st century. The main reason for the development of renewable energies is the fight against climate change, the common denominator of the actions to which this young man urges. The agreement for the climate change in Paris is based on reports from the Intergovernmental Group of Experts on Climate Change, which assess climate science. Since 1990, and as the set of data available has become more comprehensive and scientific models have improved, uncertainty about their findings has been reduced. 1990 is considered that emissions from human activities were increasing atmospheric concentrations of winter-effect gases. In 1995, evidence suggested a discernible human influence in the global climate. In 2001, there was a 66_percent chance that global warming was due to human activities. In 2007, the previous probability increased to 90_per_cent. And finally, 2014 is closed that this probability was above 95_per_cent. Ladies and gentlemen, and anyone else who listens to us, who would play the Russian roulette with twenty positions in the charger and like just one of them empty? Personally, I wouldn't play with a single position occupied. It has only been three days, as has already been mentioned, for this body to publish a special report that warns that immediate changes in energy, territories, cities and industry will be made if we want the increase in global temperature to remain below 1.5 degrees centigrades. The continuous transformation of the arguments of the organizations that question this scientific evidence is significant, beginning with the denial of the existence of global warming to end up defending the maintenance of the current situation due to the drawbacks of the available alternatives. This continuous transformation in the arguments should reflect on those people who are still doubting the progressive scalding of the earth. The progressive increase in the layer of winter-effect gases involves the risk, among many others, of rising sea levels, the death of several million people per year, in order to breathe polluted air, or the weakening of certain ecosystems. The obligation, both political and moral with future generations, to replace fossil energy sources with other renewable energy sources is therefore unavoidable. As Professor Jean-Pascal van Ypersele expressed, as there is no planet well, the survival of humanity and ecosystems should be the priority of politics. Let's move on to some topic about management, some idea. The responsibility of public authorities and administrations does not matter to the need for the message to reach the citizenry, and to assume it as an essential issue, because it is largely a success story. It is necessary to implement policies at local and regional level for both people and businesses. Greater efficiency of energy systems and lower energy consumption would lead to a reduction in demand and, as a result, to the effort of renewable energy plants, which would imply a greater percentage increase in net energy and, as a result, bring us closer to the goal set by the European Union by 2030. To conclude, I want to express that it is in this sense that we have set ourselves this young man. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to reach a compromise on housing issues, and hence our abstention in points 3, 4 and 5. The Government of the Generality, through the Catalan Strategy for Energy Renovation of Buildings already deploys strategic actions in the matter of energy rehabilitation of buildings. Thus, prior approval of the sectoral territorial plan of the habitat before the determination of other plans. All of you know that presuppositional conditions cannot be obviated. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Ferran Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.36.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, and especially, therefore, counsel to whom the subject is close, if I may, first of all, give thanks to MP Terrades for allowing the transactions and also allow this debate to enter here strongly in Parliament, because he knows that other times we have found that we always get there and find lives in agreement. And I also let 'congratulate him, which we had to do when he played, in July, for two things of his new government in Spain. One, for the Joint Government, because in the 21st century it must therefore be happiness. The other, for Teresa Ribera, because she's someone I think she believes. Logically for Mr Borrell, or for Mr Grande-Marlaska, for obvious reasons, I will not congratulate him. But on this subject, I think I should congratulate him. And I think it went very well because between countries with the situation we have now and the planetary repte, which you have commented, as well as Mr. Cid, this is a repte..., it's not a repte de pays, it's a repte planetari, it's a civilian repte and, therefore, we all have to pose. And if you allow me, Mr. Terrades, I will now oppose the government. And I think maybe that's what he's gonna agree to because I think we're gonna generate a certain consensus. Here, in Catalonia, we've tended to say that we're the best, but really we're just the best to say that we're the best. And at the time of truth, I've done fatal in many things, and the case of energy is one. And I think that's what we'd agree with the vast majority of what we're here for. The second thing is that we're also the first to get on the train, but we're also the first to get off. Therefore, this trend, especially in energy, we have to reverse it once and for all. Because, besides, here in Catalonia, we have an energy, with a model that is precisely what we have to reverse, centralized mass, in a few hands, that more than just an 8_percent of the energy is renewable, that the citizens at the time of planting solar plates, in order to lay batteries, have to do until twenty times administered. Proportionally today it is easier to set up a nuclear power plant than not to set up solar plates at home. And what should be as easy as posing as a TV antenna or a parabolic. And of course, we find ourselves with cases like projecting Veure from the area of the cell, I don't know if they know him. It's a project of a cooperative windmill in which it took eight years to process – eight years. And that's the exception when it's supposed to be the norm, because in Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, more than 50 percent of the energy is done with these models – more than 50 percent of the electrical energy. And here, then, we don't do very well. And, besides, we're in a situation where I don't care if it's Antonio Turiel who's right, or Mariano Marzo, whether or not we've reached the peak oil, that's what it does to me, because what we have to do is change this model to the 100_per_cent democratic, 100_per_cent renewable model, which allows us to fight the climate change. And here, if possible, the peak oil whether it's passed or not, it's the same; fossil fuels, we have to eradicate them. He was talking about Denmark. In Denmark, every hour, five self-consumption installations. Or another example, I, now, thank you also to the State, do quite a lot of repression tourism and I've been quite often to Brussels. Last year, Brussels, installed more self-consumption than the entire peninsula without Portugal. Brussels, a city only. So, of course, before that we have a lot of work to do. Back to Denmark, 2030 has already marked one hundred_per_cent of renewable energies, one hundred_per_cent. And here, with a little larger population, and Denmark with a typical Catalonia and Balears surface together, so we should also start posing. They've been talking about the ciphers. They talked about everything, but I'd like to take advantage of it to move on to the new model we wanted. In the 20th century, Francesc Macià spoke of "the box and the hortet. Caseta and hortet that otherwise I profit to say that Oriol Junqueras, in prison, cannot exercise, but when he was free and lived in Sant Vicenç dels Horts he did practice this of the caseta and the hortet. So we have to go to the box and the solar plate because that's what we have to do in the 21st century. We have all the reports the Icaen has made of the potential to make three times more windy earth and without counting the navy, and logically we could reach photovoltaics at forty gigawatts – forty. We've got a lot of work to do. We have a lot of work to do, we've talked to the counselor a number of times. I think we've all reached the consensus that we need to put the batteries, that we're going to do it. They did something to Germany that I think we should follow the same procedure. They did one thing, lots of examples, huh? But they created the solar consensus, or so, basically translated into a standard catal, the solar consensus, we have to go to a model in which all this generates consensus among all the parties, and that I am sure that the vast majority, the vote of the different points will go forward, but if Catalonia has six climatic areas we have to have a single common strategy, shared to make this transition to a democratic and democratic 100% and renewable percent model. The company of the previous group, from Junts per Catalunya, has already commented on the subject of the sentiment of the votes and we would ask for a separate vote from points 3, 4 and 5, 12 and 13. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the Lady Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.38.0	Good morning. I'll try to be brief. On this proposal, what we could say – and in fact it has already been approved in this chamber – as the first question, is that what is needed is to apply and make effective the climate change law that is approved, make it effective in its totality. Initiate, precisely, the planning for the energy transition it incorporated. In general terms, it has already been pointed out in some of the interventions, energy has become a basic element for the welfare of the material development of human society, but it has now become a tool or a mechanism for concentrating power and going against the popular classes. And the Catalan countries have been a land for this issue. It has been said that more than 90 per cent of energy is dependent on non-renewable energy sources. And, in this sense, we note that there are companies that have guaranteed their share of power with the construction of large infrastructures for the storage and transport of liquid gas, such as the Castor platform and the Midcat gas pipeline. Or lines like that of very high tension that have also served to trench the territory and to enrich private businesses. And in this sense, we have submitted papers not to support and to repeal and paralyze the construction of these great infrastructures that have not been accepted. But, on the other hand, other items have been accepted and, for that reason, we will, on the other hand, support this young man. But we do not want to fail to say that the logic of accumulation and expansion of capital also pressures the popular classes by means of the increase of energy taxes and the processes of speculation of the electric market. For this reason we bet on energy sovereignty, we bet to place energy planning under the popular and democratic contour. And, in this sense, we understand that energy sovereignty is only possible on the basis of renewable energies and the need for energy transition that is pointed out in some points of this motion. Therefore, we believe that the energy distribution networks currently subject to the interests of capital, that energy sovereignty refers to the right of the people to take the first decisions for what they do to production, and finally, about the question that has been talked about, about the electric car, also, what it is called... Obviously, the electric car improves what we have, but what it really is to have a public transport of quality and reduce the use of the vehicle, in a logic of decrease, because, if we do not apply the logics of decreasing in the law also of energy, what we will do will be pieces and put green elbows in the capitalist law. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to position themselves they have the word, in this case, first the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. There's a word from Mr. Antonio Espinosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.40.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is good to make it clear that for Citizens it is a priority for Catalonia to move towards a new energy model. For Citizens it is essential to achieve a low-carbon economy, and therefore, in the fight against climate change..., it makes this a fundamental struggle. For citizens it is also very important to establish an energy policy that reduces our dependence on the outside, by logically using our own natural resources, i.e. an energy policy that is fundamentally based on renewable energy. For Citizens it is also a priority to reduce the high costs of electricity for families and businesses. But all this, surely, in these..., we agree; that is, in all these proposals surely or apparently we agree with all the parliamentary groups. But I say only‘ apparently, because it is true that on the paper we set ambitious..., well, achievements in renewable energy, but in practice that is not achieved. We have set targets of 50_percent of renewable energy in 2030 in the Climate Change Act, or 100_percent in the National Energy Transition Pact. However, I want to ask you a few questions: why are we so far from fulfilling them? , why, instead of moving forward in clean electricity generation, have we dropped a 1.3 in 2017? , why in Spain as a whole is the weight of renewables double that in Catalonia? All these questions have a single and clear answer: the successive governments of the Generalitat in recent times have neither had nor have a political will to boost renewable energies. That's right; they don't have it. In this Parliament we pass laws, we pass motions, we adopt resolutions that the government does not comply with – that the government does not comply with. That's why we're running out of time, delaying all renewable energy issues. Moreover, as I said, it not only does not drive, but it slows down; it slows down the production of renewable energies with administrative and bureaucratic obstacles. In Catalonia there are people, there are entities, there are companies willing to invest in renewable energy, but they don't because they encounter these barriers, huh? , and impediments. They complain – they complain – these people, these entities, these companies complain about the administrative procedures and authorizations, which in Catalonia last about seven years, while in the rest of Spain, eh? , last between two and three. No wonder, therefore – no wonder – that, in the last renewable energy auctions, while Aragon gets one hundred and nineteen projects or Castile and León gets fifty and five, Catalonia gets six – six – projects. This is reality – this is reality. And the scenarios that we declare, precisely, the government takes care of being mere rhetorical. Why? Because then it doesn't apply anything we approve of here. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] Okay, I'm gonna stay... One more test of this null – null – will of the Generalitat to enhance renewable energies is the Recharge Infrastructure Plan for electric vehicle in Catalonia. A plan is made for 2016-2019 and, as practically nothing has been done, for it is said: "For now let us extend it until 2021. We're gonna buy time. Look, we think that renewable energy really needs to be boosted, and we are therefore in favour of this motion. There are some issues that are, in this motion, urgent to carry out. We're not going to give support, because we think that in some of them it's even short, but in everything..., many of them are going to give support. Counselor, I want to make you a request: put on the batteries – the batteries, huh? – and work for us in Catalonia to be, if not in the most absolute vanguard, at least to be at the head of the autonomous communities where renewable energy has a presence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.41.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.42.0	...important. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.44.0	Thank you, President. To announce that our group will give practical support to the whole movement. It is a motion which has as its object, has already been said and repeated, to promote energy efficiency, to promote efficiency, to promote more sustainable consumption measures, to promote the use of renewable energy, and also, of course, to reduce CO2 emissions. And from the point of view of the generation that is asked, with concrete measures, is the increase of renewables in the energy mix, and with all this we are perfectly in agreement. And to illustrate it, I think it's worth placing us where we are, which is the situation we're in right now, right now. The latest data we have available, from the first half of this year 2018, indicate that, unlike 2017, the generation of wind energy has passed before the generation of nuclear energy, that 2017 was the first source of energy; wind energy, during the first half of 2018, is already the first source of energy with 22_per_cent, 22.6_per_cent of the energy produced. At the same time, renewables in this first half of the year accounted for 45,8_percent of the energy produced, which is a million of 8,5_per_cent in relation to the energy produced in 2017. And, obviously, here is a worrying element; not worrying about now, but worrying for a long time now, and it is that in Catalonia we only produce 7,4_per_cent of renewable energies, and surely in this they want to see the historical bureaucratic difficulties that have arisen in the development of renewables, especially wind energy, in Catalonia. We cannot let go – and here will come our discrepancy with the motion – that the generation of nuclear energy is the second in importance, 20,6_per_cent this first semester of 2018. That, moreover, has another advantage, the generation of nuclear energy, which is that it is generation without CO2 emissions, and therefore, this allows us to say that 67-68_per_cent, approximately, of the joint energy produced in the joint of Spain are generation systems that do not have CO2 emissions. We therefore agree that renewables should continue to be promoted, but we cannot abandon nuclear power. Therefore, we will give support to the whole young man. On the other hand, we would ask for the separate vote on point 10, which is what refers to the nuclear shutdown, which we would vote against. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, in any case, and in order to position himself on the desks, Mr. Jordi Terrades has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.46.0	Thank you, President. You have the voting guide and the acceptance or not of the exams, and therefore, I will devote, these two minutes that remain, to making a statement. Good morning, Counselor; thank you for attending this final part of the debate. The purpose of this motion – with all that I have spoken to them I have explained – was to reach an agreement on the compromise to discuss the National Energy Transition Pact and reach a consensus. We didn't just say we had a deal; we have to do it, huh? And the other, set up the committee of climate change experts, which is what must guide us on reducing emissions by sectors. The government has to create the Climate Change Law that this Parliament has approved. It is a law from which, moreover, the current government has already said that it will withdraw the appeal in the Constitutional. We have to believe the law, and the law implies bringing into this Parliament four new laws, the climate and the background of natural heritage, changing sectoral regulations, the committee of experts – which I have already mentioned – to develop adaptation measures... Mr Narcis Clara says: "We have not agreed on the issue of housing. Look, if they collect the general assumptions of the State, they will have 400_million to distribute throughout the State precisely for these policies that we claim, of energetic rehabilitation of the buildings. And they must also create the Public Transport Finance Act. We approved it the year 2015; three years – 2015, three years. And there is a lack of regulatory development. We have to demand that the State put more money in public transport, but we also have to exercise the skills we have. Finally, it's true, we haven't been able to agree on any of the issues, because we understand that the government has allergy to put terms in what you're telling them. And, listen, what we have in front of us is so hard, it's so problematic for all of society, that what they have to do is to complete the laws and put an end to what they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. We shall now proceed to the vote on this motion. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Several Members are asking to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Civit, Mrs. Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.48.0	We would call for a separate vote on points 3, 4 and 5, and 12 and 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.49.0	Can they vote together, in two blocks, 3, 4 and 5 together, and 12 and 13 together, and the rest of the House? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Sànchez or Mr. Aragonès...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.50.0	We also want to ask for the separate vote, if it can be, also to facilitate a little voting, if we can do it point by point, if it doesn't matter to them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.51.0	Okay. Does it look like we're putting it together, because there was some other separate voting request, for example, from point 10? [[Pause.]] Yeah? So we're voting, point by point, all 15 points, huh? From this young man. Let us therefore proceed to the vote. We're voting for the first point of the vote. The vote begins. This point was approved by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote the second point. The vote begins. This was approved by 124 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. This was approved by 68 votes to 61. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. This was approved by 68 votes to 61. Let us now proceed to the vote on point 5. The vote begins. This was approved by 68 votes to 61. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. This point was approved by 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's now vote on the next point, which is number 7, with its three subparts. The vote begins. This point has also been approved unanimously, i.e., by 128 votes in favour, against and against. Let's go now and vote point number eight. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point number nine. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously, namely, 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's just move on to vote point number 10. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11_has been approved unanimously: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's now vote point 12. The vote begins. This point was approved by 67 votes to 61, with no abstentions and a Member who did not vote. Let's now vote on the number 13 point of the motion. The vote begins. This point was tested by 64 votes to 61, with 4 abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on paragraph 14. The vote begins. This point is approved unanimously, i.e. 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the 15th and after that. The vote begins. This point was also approved unanimously: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into health policy]] [[302-00007/12]] There are no more points to vote, from this young man, so let's go to the next point of the order of the day. It is the point number 7 and it is the motion following the question to the Government on health policy, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. It has the word, to expose it, the lady assumes Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.52.0	All right, thank you very much. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. In the first place, and from this rostrum, I would like to congratulate the councilwoman; she is a young man on salvation, the councilwoman has been a mother recently and hence our happiness and our happiness, both to her and to her daughter and her family. [[Greetings.]] We are debating and voting on a motion which, in fact, is followed by an inquiry, like all that we are seeing today, from July, we are in October. Meanwhile, the counselor came to appear to explain what had been done, a non-rejected appearance, because when a few things are done, so, it's over, that there's little to explain. We have known a plan of government with little concreteness, especially in the field of salvation. We have had a general policy debate, and we have approved various resolutions on salvation, many of them coincident. And this very late, so we will also vote resolutions in the specific plenary. Therefore, we would say that, from the moment this inquiry was raised, until the motion, there have been various things about salvation – and all other issues – and we have approved many other motions. Many of them coincident and I said coincident on the subject of putting on the table the most difficult problems of the health system. We have all agreed, speaking of the primary, the lists of expectations, the precariousness of professionals, and the new needs that social, economic and democratic changes generate in the system. But if the government does not continue to deal with expenditure, if there is not a multi-annual plan and bet of an increase in the presuppositions of salvation, it will be impossible to deal with what is being raised or with what we approve. And it doesn't seem that this is a government with neither many abilities nor many gains. The councillor already recognized, the other day to the commission that she did, that it had generated a deficit, where we have arrived, of 1,600_million euros, this year 2018. Nor did he explain how finance is, therefore, it is obvious that we have on the table a difficult problem in the health system. And this is a young man who, in the first place, wants to know and wants to put on the table what was the effect of the details on the system. You know, as I've said many times, five years of detail and two years of powerpoints have brought us enough to the limit of the system. So it's a good time to answer some of the questions we have. How many professionals have we lost? Who did you serve? What conditions do you work for territories? Because it allows us to prioritize and, in any case, to know how we move forward. This is the first point of our young lady. And from here on, what we are asking is, with ease, to draw up a multi-annual plan of presuppostarial scenes, which allows us to lie down at the average per capita expenditure of European countries. If we are far more than in 2010 we were dedicated per capita to salvation, we are far more than the middle that European countries are destined for in the field of salvation. So this is the first point. The second is to address the issue of inequalities in health, inequalities that have increased and that, our group does not want to give for good the fact that salvation and the poor inherit. Therefore, we want to work on giving more to the basic areas of salvation, with the reinforcement of primary, mental and community salvation. Above all, introduce all those aspects of fighting against inequalities. We had introduced a point, and we kept it, about the recovery of the Public Health Agency, but certainly, in this we must say that we agree with the government, which has already begun to process the bill. Therefore, we have maintained it and we are pleased that this has progressed. There are two more points in which we do not agree with the government, in this sense: one, it is the elaboration of a health map. It is the map that establishes the needs in health care and up to all the nine demands that there is: the effect of chronicity, aging..., and there is no way. It was promised, and there's no way it's done, and the only one that's approached are territorial strategic plans, that break the general principle of a global view. And it costs them a lot to talk about waiting lists, and this is the last thing we have. I think, in the end, they think that if they don't talk about it, they'll disappear, but I have to tell them that, even all the data the president used, when he presented his plan of government, they were out of step, because if we had them by September, it would hurt, the increase we've had. Therefore, these are the points of the young lady, we do not want to stop complaining about everything that we have already approved, in this House of Parliament, around the time of waiting. Neither in the primary, nor in emergencies, nor in general, because I find you in the public system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.53.0	Thank you, Mrs. Escarp. It has the word now, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the lady Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.54.0	Well, in the appearance to which it is ugly now reference, of the Councillor of Salvation, this September, our parliamentary group put three great warnings, and I think today it is worth reminding them and repeating them, because, in fact, this motion of the Socialist Group does, in good part..., all their proposals make reference or try to solve some of these three great warnings that we have and that we have to have present, respect our system of salvation. The first: we are at the cua of the Spanish autonomy in the reversal of the flaps in salvation. Catalonia dedicates to sanitation a 27,5_per_cent less presupposition than before the crisis. This was a date that appeared this September, in a report of the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services. An important alert. Second alert: we are the third ones for the health care, according to a report, in this case, of the Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health, a report that takes into account the surgical waiting lists, and of specialists, but also the disinvestment in the system and in the services and the degree of privatization. Taking into account all these factors, we are the third ones for the quality of health care in Spain. And a third warning: the discomfort in the profession. Because they keep the details, because of precariousness under and under working conditions, because they are tired of working on services that are detailed and, therefore, with a lot of care pressure. And for the conditions, more of a background, than for the rest, they're not attacking each other, because we're in these conditions more of an emergency. As, for example, 50_percent of the under-forty-five-year-olds have a temporary contract; salary breakdowns, etc., and all of this, is making you charge less than in the community, such as Aragó, and running away from the under-age, midwives, young people. Formats here, but they're going to work in other communities. Precarity is driving them out of our public health system. And, therefore, we are lacking professionals, not only doctors, but also nurses and nurses, in our health care system. All folded are alerts, I think, very important, and that we want to put as priority number 1 the reversal of the flaps, already. If we don't start here, we don't attack the other warnings we've put on the table, respect the quality of health care, the waiting lists, and respect the situation of professionals. Therefore, our concern at the Socialists' motion was at the point where, precisely, they refer to the need for more pressure, to return to the expenditure of 1,500 euros per capita, putting it short-temporary. I'm done, two years. Because we can't go waiting any longer. We are saying that this is the beginning of the reversal of all these elements and alerts that we have, right now, respect our health system and what we want is that as soon as possible we can be thinking in the future and thinking about how we equate the health systems of other places, which we would like to assemble more and more from the rest of Europe. I, therefore, cannot wait any longer than two years. In this sense, our concern, which has incorporated itself with a transaction into the movement of the socialists. Obviously, many of the other points that are raised in this Socialist motion are also on our minds, and therefore we will vote in favour of all of them, because we need to put the focus of this reversal of the detail in the working conditions, but also especially in the primary, and because, obviously, as we have voted on a thousand occasions in this chamber, we need to recover the guarantee time in the time of access to health care services and make it complete. Because if anything we have been able to prove in these past years is that the step of the reference time warranty has only served to completely fail any type of compromise, and we cannot continue in these conditions. We will therefore vote in favour of all the points of this young man, and this time we hope that they can be completed, unlike the many other times we have voted on these types of commitments in this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.55.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. Next, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of CUP - Constituent Creed, the Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.56.0	Good morning, all of you. We do not want our salvation to be managed by private companies. In fact, it seems to us even an irrational fact that there are elements of business benefit to health. And we don't just say it because it's privately managed: we even say it sometimes that it's publicly managed and they want to introduce non-business criteria, but capitalists. For the CUP, a public health system, managing a public cent_per_cent and providing a public cent_per_cent, is the only guarantee that we have universal, equitable and quality sanitation. And we are also very clear that what has been one of the great expressions of "socio-virgency" has been the public health system or how it has been managed, with constant confusion between the public and the private. Permanent confusion that goes up, as we are told or derived from some judicial actions – we talk about the assumption of Innova –, to use public resources directly to steal, to steal from what should be allocated to sanitation for the benefit of some and some. If we explain all this, it is so that we can convey the difficulty that we sometimes have in positioning ourselves at a few points, like the ones that come from this young man; it is difficult because there is a part of the young man where we will abstain – and then we will explain it in more detail – for a very simple question: we can agree, but we do not suppose that the change is effective. Let's talk about studies, multiannual plans, interdepartmental coordination, map..., we agree, but this will not mean a change in the situation of salvation. And we will vote in favour of those questions that you can assume, even if you keep the model, some benefits: let's talk about terms, whether it's for consultations to primary attention or for waiting lists. And we always want to remember those who are daily defending public health in a few hospitals, in a few CAPs, and those who, in a more conscious way, have done so in the past few years, and in a very special way a company, the Tamara Carrasco, that carries many years defending public health to Viladecans, to its city, and that today can't even get out of its city. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.57.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. Next, also to defend the papers presented, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.58.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, counselors, deputies and deputies. What shame again of health care we have had in Catalonia. From the escó, before you tanked this Parliament to the debate, to the control sessions, we told you: "Work for the health system, work for which you are doing healthily this summer. And once again he closed beds– 2,500 closed hospital beds–, again empty consultations because he did not hire replacements, again he increased the waiting list in Catalonia... And you innovated: this year you incorporated the lock of a radiotherapy device in Tarragona. Therefore, since you are ruling, continuing to govern respect for the government of the last legislature, the list of waits has increased again: we already have fifteen_1,000 more patients waiting for Catalonia – as the Member said, possibly on the date of today's much more – three_1,000 more waiting for some surgery, five_1,000 more waiting for a diagnostic test, seven_1,000 more waiting for a visit to an external consultation. Yes, they still don't pay the health workers what they're looking for; they're still holding the Bellvitge Hospital at the same time, with a_month to test for radiology, so they don't invest in a device; they're still working precarious; they're still leaving the territory; they're following the infirmary, and obviously they're following the problems of family reconciliation. For all this, everything healthily follows the same as Catalonia. And we ask ourselves, I ask myself, what does the President of the Generality recommend to us? So yesterday we felt it: demand that Ciutadans 'vagi to the major parties, as do some. Now, when Mrs. Arrimadas, at the investiture speech or, last week, at the general policy, asks the President a health question, what does the President of the Generality answer? He looks like he always does: "This is not with us, this is not with President Torra. Sanitation is a minor issue. Not unlike what happened when Mrs. Arrimadas asked Mr. Puigdemont about health issues. What was Mr. Puigdemont saying? We all remember this: "This is not with us, we are for something else. But Catalonia's real health problems are unfortunately still the same. And in this sense I would like to recommend to Mr. Torra, since yesterday he sent us a party for Catalonia, so I ask Mr. Torra, and many of you: Vagina, more than your parties, Vagina, please, to the hospital; Vagina, please, to the external consultations; follow, please, to the falls of the primary care consultations, and listen to the patients, listen to these people who are patenting and asking for a visit and not giving them. So we're explaining to them, to explain to them the patients, but not with these concert visits that clean the places; no, no, they're following, like everyone else, a waiting table. Vagina, please, accompanied by any company of primary care and entering a home, come in to see what is a malalt in a bed when dying, when waiting for help and the health system has not just given it because it does not go up to the whole territory. Look, I think you need to get out of this speech and see the reality, the pain, the anguish, the hope, and see that there are territorial inequalities. The other day we explained to them: territorial inequalities are extraordinary across Catalonia. So, what will happen this late, what will we have healthily this winter? Unfortunately, we will return to the same: closed beds, waiting list and closed consultations, because you will surely continue in the alternative contractor. This is a minor issue for you. And I've heard myself say many times since this Faristol: medicine will be human or it won't be medicine. Stop frivolitizing between you and work for the health system. There's a lot of work to do. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.59.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Next is the return, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs. Naomi Llaurado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.60.0	Thank you very much. Good morning. Add to the congratulations to Constellera Vergés for her recent motherhood. First of all, to tell them that most of the groups we have tried to reach agreement on this motion, we have not achieved it at all points, but I think it is good that we continue to build consensus, because, therefore, health and health policy affects all citizens and it is important that we reach this vast majority of agreement. It is also true that many points of this young man are already being realized or are already planned in the government plan of the Generality and that they have also been exposed for the Councillor Vergés before the Health Committee. But, getting into the background, we could start with the point where we got to this transactional theme, in the importance of doing an analysis of the effect of the retailing. We think it's a necessary exercise, we think CatSalut is willing to do it. And we would also like to thank him, therefore, for the property of the young man who has accepted to withdraw that he had reduced the servants, because the wallet of the servants, if we are to be strict and precise, has not seen any decrease. As for the Pla d'escèneris presupostaris to guarantee the presuppositional recovery and to arrive, within two years, at a per capita expenditure of 1,500_euros, we must put all efforts, it is obvious. But we also need to make clear the financial and economic situation in which the Generalitat finds itself, with a stifling remedy of the deficit, and also taking into account a fiscal deficit, recognized for the same Spanish State, of EUR 16,000_million, which, obviously, if we do not have it, we could accomplish all these objectives that the young person foresees, and also many others. Returning to this slump, the government of Pedro Sánchez offered to make it more flexible by 0.3_per_cent. Well, this 0.3_per_cent would represent approximately 500_million euros more for Catalonia. With this 500_million more euros, if we all invest in the Health Department, we will cover a per capita expenditure of 1,250_euros, still far beyond what they propose in their own country. As they're not supposed to authorize us to overstep this debt limit, we understand that they still can't get to this target. On the other hand, for what it does to inter-departmental coordination in order to fully address social determinants and with a gender perspective, you know that since 2014 the Inter-departmental and Inter-Sectorial Plan for Public Health, the Pinsap, which it seeks to promote the salvation of all spheres of government and society, and that its development in the health field is the Comsalut, which it claims is the reorientation of the health system towards the promotion and prevention of health, as well as the fight against inequalities and the promotion of healthy public policies from the local sphere. For what it does to the gender perspective, they also know the firm commitment of the Vergés Councillor in this sense, because inequalities in health for social and gender reasons continue to be a reality that they intend to address with determination. For what it does to recover the Public Health Agency, the project, after the end of the 155, is back in parliamentary process, and we trust that from all groups we agree to be able to pull it forward. As for the new health map, we share with you that it is necessary to make good planning, and to do so from the new reality, such as progressive aging, chronification... But precisely because we need to make accurate planning and able to adapt to the changing needs of the population, we understand that it is the strategic planning to which we referred in our speech, in the sense of continuing to elaborate and unfold the territorial strategic health plans, such as full routes that identify priorities and guide health activities in the territory, with participation not only from the local communities and the local world, but also from the professional, from the citizenry and from the providers. We agree with you that we still have to work hard to reduce the waiting time and we need to get old for the compliment of the terms of reference. For what makes a new regulation that converts reference time into guaranteed time, we are in favour of waiting for the results of the Councillor's assignment to the Cat Salut to review, with clinical criteria and participation of experts and users, the reference time of certain selected procedures, in order to be able to hold a conclusion in the first quarter of 2019. It is true that sometimes the terms of scheduled consultations in the primary attention are not complete and we have to work because it is always complete, and that is why there are orders to which it refers. For what he does to urgent proceedings, they already hold on the same day to the CAP with spontaneous visits. And, on the other hand, there is already provision for the provision of an alternate centre where intervention takes place before the end of the guarantee or reference term, prioritizing public management and mediating the proactivity of hospital centres. Thank you very much. We'll keep working on it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.61.0	Thank you, Mrs. Llaurado. To finish this round of defense of the papers presented, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Ms Anna Tarrés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.62.0	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everybody. Mirin, yesterday Mr Carrizosa li feia the following question to the very honorable President Quim Torra : « Are you in a much more haste to bring here to Puigdemont or to reduce waiting lists? So, mirin, lords of Ciutadans, it's all important. Now almost a year ago, you, with your members from the PP and the Socialist Party, applied Article 155. And, you see, one of the first effects of this 155 is that it has left us unscathed on the waiting lists this 2018, since the guany assumption is extended from the previous and does not include any of these expenses. So, thanks to the 155th tripartite, our health and social system has less money, it is administratively slower and, therefore, it is less efficient. Tanmateix, the government rules and we are here, in Parliament, to debate and negotiate. And we like to debate everything, as much of a republic as of salvation; in fact, talking about a republic is talking about salvation. In short, and to answer Ciutadans' question, and link it to this young man, we understand that sanitation is a priority, as is the return of President Puigdemont. Because talking about President Puigdemont is talking about the republic, and talking about the republic is all about prioritizing the social agenda. For what he does to the young lady, Juntes per Catalunya will vote in favour of Point 1, since our partial modification campaign has been accepted, and we have reached a deal with Citizens and Socialists. That is to say that CatSalut can carry out the analysis of the evolution for care lines that is called for, but it should be noted, as we have shown in our report, that the service portfolio has not diminished, despite the application of 155. In relation to point 2, the health care presupposition suffers from the same deficiency as the generality presupposition. This makes it impossible for us to aspire, as in other autonomous communities, such as Euskadi, to have the capacity to allocate 1,500 euros per inhabitant and year. So good we could get there and even get over it, but we have to be realist and put the EUR 1,500 time in two years is not viable. And not because we don't want to do it, but because they rely, to a very good extent, on the financing that Catalonia can afford from the State. With regard to the recovery of the Public Health Agency, we will also vote in favour. The bill to recover the agency was approved for the government, entered Parliament on the 27th of 2017, was approved for the technical committee and follows the adjunct parliamentary process. I particularly welcome the fact that it is a gift of the importance that I believe has public salvation in the context of the health system in Catalonia, and that it is indeed possible to have an adequate premise. In relation to point 5, it means that the health map is not a planning document that is designed and approved at a given time. It is a strategic planning instrument with a continuous adaptation to the changing reality that is already available in Catalonia. And for what it does at last point, we will vote against it. Our group agrees that the responsibility of the government is to age so that the guarantee times of health-care waiting lists are completed, but this means that all folds are well defined and regulated in different decrees and orders. From Juntas per Catalunya we reaffirm that the health system in Catalonia is a very good health system, which counts with excellent professionals who, thanks to their commitment and professionalism, contribute to excellence. What cannot be done is that the system is the object of unnecessary attacks for purely political reasons, and that those who suffer from these attacks are its professionals, the most important part of the system. It's for this reason that there's not enough chips on the scale they've had since 2012. Since Parliament we must commit ourselves to caring for and motivating them. In other words, a synchronization team could never win a medal at the Olympic Games without a good choreography, a good coach, good installations and the best multidisciplinary team, all folded with a great supply of economic resources. That all the groups in this Parliament are working to make it possible, and that's how we're going to make it from the Group Together for Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.63.0	Thank you, Mrs. Tarrés. Next, to fix his position, he has the word, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.64.0	Thank you, President. From now on, to position us in relation to this Socialist Group motion. We fully share the concern shown during the inquiry and during the presentation of the motion on the deterioration of the health system, and it was an expression that I struggled to express – the deterioration of the health system – but, unfortunately, we have to do it this way. The more recent reports that have been known and some that have already been cited at this time, I think they point that way. Catalonia is the third worst community in healthcare, according to one of these reports. And, also, Catalonia is at the top of the recovery of assumptions or healthcare spending in relation to 2009, concretely a 27_per_cent less than in 2009. That, of course, it doesn't have to be a tax deficit problem, according to the terminology of some, because in 2009 the tax deficit was certainly the same and, in change, the expenditure on sanitation was much higher. In any case, the problem is a cost priority problem. And I think that with just one example is more than enough. The year 2017, the government of Mr Puigdemont, who so much praised himself a while ago, allocated twice as much resources to the Tax Agency of Catalonia as to the plan to reduce the waiting lists to public health. Therefore, I believe that it is not a matter – perhaps also – so many entrances, but that it is often a matter of priority spending. And so we find that public sanitation is under-resourced; human resources are under-resourced, resources are under-resourced to improve the conditions of people who are working, not because they need to improve because they do, but simply to recover the conditions with which they are found, but also material resources are under-resourced. Many of the teams are beginning to become obsolescence in the face of the lack of reversal that has occurred in the past few years. And, finally, we are very concerned and very much concerned, we have said so many times for a very long time, the evolution of the waiting lists. We are concerned about the change that has taken place a few years ago in which, in the accounts, we committed the citizens together to having a guarantee of health care and there was a reference. And we're worried that even references are not complete. We are in favour of returning to the guaranteed time, of guaranteeing to the citizenry the commitment of the department with its salvation. And in this sense, we believe that alternatives must be offered. And we are not concerned that the ownership of whom you offer these alternatives is public or private, which we are concerned about is that salvation comes to all, to all, to Catalans and to Catalans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to pronounce on the exams, has the word again the lady Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.66.0	Thank you, President. I believe that positions have been made clear, and so have the papers; therefore, I will devote these two minutes to pointing out two things that have really surprised me. I was surprised because in salvation we always like to talk about consent and work, but I was surprised when Mrs. Tarres made a few similes with the rights. Mrs. Tarrés, we are talking about the universal right of salvation. We're talking about one of the most important fundamental rights, not playing, you say they defend so many rights. I want to tell you something else. You're talking a lot about 155 and the clippings, but you've left... you know, you're talking about 155 and you've left the clippings. Five years of detail, the government of the Lord but to which many of you gave support. And you forgot. It has been forgotten that the year 2010 was almost at this €1,500, and that you have been there until now that you have brought us to where we are. So when we talk about salvation, let's know what we're talking about, because we're talking about people and people's right to have a full attendance. And just to finish, respect what Congresswoman Llaurado said when she talked about the slum, etc. Listen, if you give support to the Government that has set up, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, to the Congress of Deputies, which, as Minister Montero said, Catalonia would receive 2,200_million more euros. Therefore, stop last minute, stop playing with seconds that and follow all serious enough that there was the salvation of all our people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Call it a vote. [[Vidal Aragonese Chicharro asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Aragonese?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.68.0	Yes, Mr President, for a separate vote on the six-point, the six-point. [[Noemi Llauradó Sans asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.69.0	Yes, Mrs. Llaurado, say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.70.0	Yes, to ask for the vote separately. We'd ask points 2 and 6, for one band; 5 for another, and the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.71.0	All right. On the 2nd we will vote separately because the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP has asked to vote separately on 6. Therefore, we will vote separately on 2, 5 and 6, and the rest of the motion. [[Albert Batet i Canadell asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.72.0	On a point of order, Mr President. In the previous vote, I understand that in this House we have made every effort to ensure that each Member takes his or her seat in order to make his or her votes. This did not happen in the previous vote. Our parliamentary group would ask that there be scrupulous compliments that each Member voted on from his or her escho. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.73.0	Thank you. This is what the Rules stipulate, and I take advantage of Mr Batet's comment to warn you that this: that all Members must vote from their sco, they cannot vote from any other sco that is not their own. All right. Pass... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's move on to the vote on the motion. We'll vote first on point number two. The vote begins. Point number two is approved by 65 votes in favour, 59 against... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If it worked for some, in principle, it would have to work for everyone. I remind you that you have to "press the presence and then vote. And don't touch any more buttons, please! [[Give me the applause.]] This point 2 of the motion was approved by 65 votes to 59, with 4 abstentions and one Member who did not vote. Let's now vote for the number five point of this young man. The vote begins. This point is approved, point 5, by 64 votes in favour, no abstentions and 65... [[Widow's remorse.]] Pardon me, against 65 abstentions. Let's now vote point number 6 – let's vote point number 6. The vote begins. This point is approved, this point number 6, by 68 votes in favour, 61 against and no abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 123..., 125 votes in favour– excuses– [[applause]] against 4 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into first-child care services]] [[302-0008/12]] Let's move on to item 8 of the order of the day, which is the Ministry following the Government's inquiry into the first child care services. Presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, she has the word, to defend her, Ms.Jéssica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.74.0	Yes, thank you, President. And good morning to all and to all. Three months have passed since I asked about first-time policies, and therefore I think it is necessary to remember the objectives for which we presented it and what we intended. We want to take a step forward in the equal opportunities of children and children of Catalonia, visquina a la Mina, visquina a Pedralbes, a village of the Vall d'Aran or the Vendrell. Therefore, what we want is to prevent the educational inequalities that come from the socio-economic level of families and from territorial imbalances in the distribution of resources. We also want to take a step forward for justice with the gatherings, that all these years of detail have been compromised and guarantors of first-time services, and therefore making an economic effort to get there where the Generality was not coming. And we want to take a step forward, too, in feminist policies, because some powerful first-time servants help to achieve equality between men and women. The women, who, if they want to be seas, often have to give up their professional life. And, at the same time, we also want to guarantee the right to form a family and, as I always say, any family model. And this we will not only achieve with the schools Bressol, this also goes from family spaces, from support actions to parental empowerment, from a strategy, which must be cross-cutting, from a country, to teaching – the department – but also the Health Department, the Department of Social Affairs, the assemblies and the educational community. That is to say, what we are proposing in this young man is a national first-infant development plan that looks at the present, but let him also have a look and a look in the future, because we consider that we should also begin to broaden this look and stop thinking only in the zero-three, to think in the zero-sis. And that's why the strategy has to be joint and to foster the connection between the Bressol schools, the family spaces, and these two with the primary and child education centers. In this sense, we see it essential to develop a master's training plan, which must be theoretical, but it must also be practical, focused on promoting this coordination and this educational coherence, and also a training plan for the territorial services of the department, so that we can weave the network throughout the country. We're also entering a point that talks about coeducation. We've always said that, and no one denies it, but then the facts don't come, right? Everyone seems to be in favour of co-education, but when the moment comes up, reality and assumptions and facts don't show it. So, we demand co-education as one of the central axes of the work lines that must accompany the formation of the teams of the centers in the process of discovering which are the gender stereotypes, which discriminations derive from these, and to begin to eradicate from the first childhood the biaxes of the sexes. The young woman, as she could not be in any other way, also had a point that spoke of the financing of the schools Bressol, but this point we decided to withdraw it. Only two days ago, in the general policy debate, thanks to the favourable votes of all the opposition we managed to bring forward a proposal that would recover the €1,600 per square and year, and a timetable for returning the debt to the joint venture. I know from the opinion that if one thing is voted on only two days ago and we don't know how the government will react before this approval, we need to wait a prudent time to see if the government finally completes what is approved in this Parliament. This is not the case – and that is why we are going to include it again – of the feeding alleys for the bressol schools. This is voted and approved in the Plenary of Social Emergencies and Economic Recovery of the previous legislature. As it is not applying – the government has not set a single euro – we will present it again to remind the government, which must complete it, because it is approved – because it seems that in this case it has very short memory – and we will see if this time the compromise is firm. Another point: family spaces. I've already commented that this isn't just bressol schools, it's also familiar spaces. We only have eighty-eight in all of Catalonia – there are forty-minus of those we had a few years ago – and they have disappeared from the crisis and from the detail. They have an unequal distribution throughout the territory and, besides, they are not where you make them from families are lower. Therefore, we believe it is essential to reverse this situation. And that's why we put the Generality's co-responsibility in its funding, and also that the Generality collaborates with the joints in its planning to open it up where they are most needed. As you see, it's a young man who sets out to weave the web, to get where else is needed to guarantee equal opportunities for children, to guarantee pedagogical coherence, to work for a feminist education and, moreover, also proposes training and resources. It's a cross-sectional movement, based on pedagogical criteria and putting life at the center. And that's why we expect to count on your support. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in first place and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mrs Esther Niubó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.76.0	Thank you, President. Members and Members, well, let's talk again about services for the first child, above all education, and I want to start, therefore, thanking the Group of Catalonia in Comú We can for the proposal, which in general we see with very good eyes, as well as some nuances that I will try to explain. In the first place, on the elaboration of a joint work plan of the different..., on a child development plan, we do want to highlight the importance of the joint work between the different departments of government and competent. Also the joint work and coordination between the different agents, including schools, family spaces, CAPs, pediatrics, PAEs, families, seems to me that this is very important; but above all, the co-responsibility with the assemblies. You know that in the past few years there have been those who have supported, on their spaces, this public service; not only the financing and maintenance of the schools in Bressol, however important, but also that they often end up developing and running directly services and care programs at the first infancy, often with municipal and, even, private public workers. Therefore, co-responsibility seems to be phonative; that means acting freely, transparently; that means collaborating; that means deciding and planning together. And, therefore, it is not my hand and you pay what has happened in the past few years. And that's also extended when we're talking about family space. Secondly, it is about giving support to families and helping reconciliation – in part, it is true – but, above all, it seems to me that what it is about is to guarantee this correct cognitive, emotional, physical development of infants at this zero-sis stage, which we also want to put into value. The fundamental objective must be educated, it must be development. The schools cannot and are not for children, they are spaces for personal development and education. About guaranteeing the working conditions of professionals who work both at the schools in Bressol as well as at the family space, all the support. We know of the precariousness of this sector, especially of the monitors of the feeder service, of the monitors of the gathering service, and we seem to be working for it, but we also want to ensure its proper training. About bressol schools. We here have also prepared a number of points, in order to recover commitments that have been approved again, many days ago, in this general political debate which was referred to by Mrs Albiach, in this Chamber, and which the Councillor, therefore, more or less vaguely, had also undertaken to take on a few months there. We understand that, once these mandates have been approved, they have not decided to withdraw it, but we do not want to fail to say that we hope that the Councillor, that we hope that this Government will complete. We hope that the assumptions that contain sufficient parties to compliment these mandates of Parliament. And, therefore, we have approved many times in this chamber for a large majority and, therefore, we expect this government to have some decent assumptions that compliment this mandate. Therefore, we ask that the co-responsibility in the financing and in the support of municipal schools, in the recovery of the financing modules, we recover the thirds of the average cost of the square, in the recovery of this financing from at least 1,600 – and gradually tend to 1,800, but we start with something – and also restore the outstanding debt of the joints. We do not ask impossible, we do not ask that they pay for it all now, but they do present – and this has been approved – a three-month payment schedule, a restitution schedule for those parties that have been dedicated to the promotion and operation of municipal children who have not been returned to the assemblies and are to be returned. You can wake him up. And the municipalities, in the mark of their autonomy or in the mark of the mixed commission, can decide to negotiate, agree with the government a timetable of restitution. But let's not deny the Major, let's return these games, let's do it one time, let's all get down there. But what we can't do is market with the Generality's payment obligations at the meetings, which the same justice has recognized, for having kept these services that are the exclusive competence of the Generality. And to make it viable, negotiations with Economy, negotiations with Vice-President Aragonès, negotiations with the deputies, negotiations with the Spanish Government, which, of course, has chosen to recover a game destined for the universalization of zero-three. Remember that this game, President Zapatero's Educational Plan 3, was eliminated for Rajoy. They do whatever they want, but, please, as I said, they present these worthy assumptions. This PR also touches a very important point: the feeding alleys. It was included in the food service as part of the educational project always seems phonental, but above all, at this stage. So let's also hope that the new householder's decree, then, defines this service as an educational service that forms part of the center education project. And finally, on family spaces, we also want to insist, again, on joint responsibility. It seems to us that its regulation is very necessary, but we work with joint planning, too, from the hand of the assemblies. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of the joint motion. Let's hope we don't have to keep talking about it constantly until now, because we also want to talk about other things. We want to talk about segregation, we want to talk about professional training, equality of opportunity, inclusive school, food. So, let's compliment this once in a while and not talk about it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.77.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, to defend the papers presented, it's the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Pardon..., yes, it is to defend the papers presented, in this case, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. When you're ready, Mr. Riera – I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.78.0	Yes, thank you, President. From the escó. Just to state that we will position ourselves in favor of the motion in its totality. To thank the compromise that has also been taken on behalf of the proposed parliamentary group. And it's consistent with everything we've come to defend in this classroom in teaching and childhood care. There is complete agreement, and therefore we will vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, in any case, then, it's the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group. It's Mrs. Mònica Palacín's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.80.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice President, Counsellor, Counsellor, good morning. I would like to begin by thanking the task of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pueblo, in particular the deputy Jessica Albiach, respects this motion that sets on the table the will to reach agreements for what it does to a country's fundamental theme: the education of children, outside the framework of the conflict that some parliamentary groups are striving to stage. With regard to the child development plan – the first point of the motion – it has been easy to reach an agreement for which it makes the final text. The Education Department recognizes the strategic educational character of the first cycle of childhood education. This educational stage has as its objective the overall development of the capacities of the children during the first years of life, at the beginning of the process of learning, and must prevent and compensate for the difficulties discrimination of social economic and cultural origin. All our gratitude and recognition to the professionals who care, train, educate, are part of the vital evolution of the children of our country. All necessary tools for their formation, adaptation to the new circumstances and to the various needs of families are essential. For what it does at the second point of the motion, on Tuesday, in the General Policy Plenary, its parliamentary group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress achieved the approval of the motion for a resolution referring to the recovery of the financing of the Bressol schools, for the return of the parties. We will not enlarge it, but let me say that you are making a point: at the beginning of the legislature, Councillor Bargalló has already expressed his willingness and commitment to return the government's contributions not only to the Socialist Party's meetings, but to all those who have been harmed. As you know, the will is there, and at the negotiating table to make it effective... there they will always find us, but from realism and co-responsibility. Therefore, despite the fact that a transaction was not possible at that point, we reiterate this real compromise. This has been done since the zero minute, in the framework of the joint commission with the municipal authorities, to establish the criteria for recovering the contributions of the Generality in the financing of the schools in Bressol, in function of a social tariff to guarantee access to the children in disadvantaged social and economic situations, often in circumstances that are of a certain and high complexity. The collaboration, therefore, is basic, and not only in terms of funding – and in the second point, the one left to the young person –, but also to be able to cooperate for the success of all stages, with the commitment of the department to work for a proper training of professionals, teachers, caregivers of this stage, establish co-education as a central axis of the work and the impulse of a program of groceries as part of the educational project. Therefore, our agreement in this second point also. I, respect the point of family space, also totally agree. As we said at the time of the presentation of the papers, these spaces must strengthen the family context and encourage the general development of infants, and help parents to prevent risk situations arising from isolation, and the difficulty of solving problems of daily education in the education and the child of their children. This space, therefore, has as its objective to facilitate an area that encourages the interaction of living with the professionals of the school Bressol, to offer support and help in the care of the infant, and to give answers to all their requests. Finally, the importance of education to become a society formed, critical and co-responsible in our society is a fundamental pillar for those who defend the republic as a self-government instrument that must serve all people, from the values of justice, equity, to be able to develop their abilities and individually and collectively put knowledge and expertise at the disposal of the growth of a country project. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.81.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Imma Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.82.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. A record for prisoners and exiles, and persecuted for the repression that we are patenting in our country, and a strong embrace of Mallorcans and Mallorcans, at times as hard as those that are patenting. I wanted to tell you. First of all, I would like to add to the words of Mrs Palacín, I would like to thank what we had, even though it was July, with Mrs Albiach, because this is a very sensitive and very important issue. Secondly, they will allow me to consider: I am very happy that my intervention in this hemisphere is related to my profession. Yes; I soc educadora infantile of a small city nursery of a small village of Pallars mountain will rise, to the beautiful mig of the High Pyrenees, and I love my work. I recognize that I am still fascinated today by the process of growing up children, how they learn to walk, to talk and to think, and how the task of children's educators – and I speak in women because, unfortunately, in their majority they are women – is very important in these early days. It's a complex job; you have to appreciate it a lot, this job, because you don't just sometimes have to have eight babies now, but you have to have a very clear who your role is: accompanying, sharing, trusting, bringing, enquiring. These are some of the verbs that I think have a lot of presence while sharing with children and children so many hours of life. Indeed, Mrs. Albiach, of life, deals with this motion presented for your group so as to urge the Government to develop a plan for the development of children's services for the first childhood. And, in this, we are totally in agreement, to talk about the lives of the smallest, of who are the future of our country. Together for Catalonia we agree with the department in which it is essential that the different competent departments of the Government, the assemblies and the whole educational community are involved. At times, with total respect for municipal and centre autonomy, so that public policies supporting families and children are working cross-cuttingly. We also agree that a proposal for co-responsibility in the financing of public children's homes should be made. And we also share with the department that will gradually recover its participation in the financing of this stage, with a sufficient share of the generality's assumptions. Why is this stage so important? Because we don't just keep children, we just have to give them a lot more pedagogical connotations, because that's where they put the resources on which learning, knowledge, experience will be added. We agree, therefore, that we should continue to establish co-education, that we should promote much more the connection between the schools in Bressol and the educational centres of children and primary education, and that we should continue to facilitate family reconciliation. Thus, children's schools or schools are the most extensive resources for teaching in these early years of life, but there are no others. Anyway, what we're asking is that there's a standard framework that rules all this. But in order to dignify a job of a giant responsibility like this, such as the recognition of professionals in the sector, which have already completed their commitment with the required training. I myself obtained the title of technical in childhood education of the first promotions of the IOC. But we also need the institutions' commitment to work conditions. On the one hand, the underlings of the professionals are often inversely proportional to the great responsibility involved in this work; on the other hand, the teachers often have high rates of infants who make it very difficult for this important pedagogical task. In these cases, you can't do much more than keep the kids. That's why we demand this republic too, because we'll have many more tools to work with. Therefore, we need to seek solutions to the different problems and address them in a coordinated manner. In this sense, our ideas were in the sense of promoting decent working conditions for all workers, to resume this training plan of the education staff, and to continue adapting the timetables and timetables that allow this family reconciliation. And, finally, they will allow me a phrase that I like very much about the illustrator Joan Turu, who says: "Education is facilitating the conditions because children can be who they are. I assure you that some very small ones – he thought that some already come in with four_months – already show some very marked personality traits. For this reason, our ability and responsibility, not only as educators and educators but also as adults, must rarely open to their curious eyes a range of possibilities, knowledge and experiences of the world that surround us, so that we may become more educated, more supportive, fairer, more empathetic and freer citizens. In short, better people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.83.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mrs Elisabeth Valencia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.84.0	Good. Thank you, President. Counsellor, Counsellor, Members, Members, good afternoon to everyone. We are finally grateful to have the opportunity to talk about childhood and family support policies in this Parliament. We haven't been able to celebrate a full one for many months. What do independence groups do in Parliament? Block us the institution where we can adopt policies to guarantee the quality of life of people. We want to be part of the solution, we want to help the Catalans. Good. To talk about the day - to - day families, I will give you an example of a recent case, as many others will know or have lived. Yesterday I visited some friends who, after a lot of thinking, decided to be parents. They will need a childcare service to be able to reconcile family and work life. And what is the reality with the Government? Well, look, they're meeting with a government that, in the last four years – and you know it, counselor – has invested zero euros in zero-three education. You can be filled with words of conciliation, of equal opportunities, but when we talk about a measure whose effectiveness is demonstrated to guarantee equality between men and women, listen, reality is zero euros of investment. How can it be that with the low birth rate we have in Catalonia and Spain, the Government invests zero euros in a key policy for reconciliation? If we look at the early childhood support policies being implemented by the Government of the Generalitat, the picture is desolating. We have a children's law that has not been implemented since 2010, a pact for children that has not been implemented, and we are well below the Spanish average in investment in children's policies and in light years from the European average. In Catalonia, one_of_each_four children is poor, and we are one of the autonomous communities where parents' incomes influence their children's education most. With this panorama we have in Catalonia, we need clear commitments, and we have asked the Government for a timetable for compliance with children's policies. We firmly believe that policies of reconciliation and support for families are a cornerstone of our welfare state, and our proposals here as well as in the Congress of Deputies are in this line. We see it essential to ensure the working conditions of teachers and to provide them with a training plan as indicated in the motion they have put forward. Also support families with the dining grants. We want zero-three education to be universal and free, and we want to help families with our free textbook law. We have managed to expand the paternity leave without governing, just by putting people's priorities ahead of us. We have also proposed measures to support single-parent families and to support large families, proposed to help and not to make the lives of Catalans difficult, as this Government does. On the other hand, we wonder when the Government will pay once and for all to the municipalities, which have had to assume the full payment of the day care facilities. We were surprised that Catalonia in Comú withdrew precisely these points from the motion, where the Generalitat was precisely asked to pay once and for all what it owed to the municipalities. You who boast of being so progressive and so leftish? We are not going to comply with the statements of the Government of the Generalitat saying that now you cannot assume the debt you have with the municipalities regarding day care. Do I remind you of how much you spend on maintaining the structure of political chiringuites, and their structure of plugs? Plugged, yes, even plugged away from justice, like Mr Puig or Mrs Serret. Is it really more important to put your party mates out of business than to help hundreds of Catalan families in matters of conciliation? Look, Catalonia needs a government that solves problems, that manages the budget efficiently, that supports families, that supports children and the most vulnerable people in society. This Government continues to demonstrate day by day its inability to guarantee social justice and equal opportunities. This government is instability and social regression. We hope that your days, for the sake of Catalonia, will be counted in the Generalitat. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.85.0	Next, to fix her position, she has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs. Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.86.0	Excuse me, yes, from the seat. We will support the motion submitted, and we appreciate the inclusion, which we believe is good to remember, that as early as April 2017 we had tabled a similar motion, which did not come to be discussed, for the creation and funding of the system of children's schools in Catalonia. And I think these debates are good because they show that when we talk about real priorities that affect the day-to-day lives of Catalans, of all, without a notebook, think as they think, feel as they feel, it is possible to reach broad agreements in this House. I believe that this is a matter which, beyond reversing in favour of reconciling professional life with personal life, also directly affects to lay the foundations for what the future education and educational development of boys and girls has to be. And that is therefore good, not only that this education is regulated in a regulatory framework, but also that there is a firm commitment, a commitment on the part of the Administration that it will be provided with resources, and let us hope that in the future that commitment will be reflected and maintained over time, and let us not find ourselves again with budget lines, as it happened in 2015, that they will hit this type of education with a hatchet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, to pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Jessica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.88.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mrs. Valencia, we have withdrawn the points you were commenting on because they were adopted two days ago. You were in this plenary and you voted in favour, so we do not understand what you were referring to. That said, I would like to thank the number of items that we have rejected, which have been very many, and most of all parliamentary groups, the PSC, the CUP, the Republican Group, the Citizens' Group and the Juntes per Catalunya. We didn't incorporate many of them either, because we thought they were improving the text and they were in the same voice and responding to the intent and the hope of the young man. I think we can get out satisfied, because today we come out with a broad agreement, a country agreement, of those who make consent. That, yes, it is now to be completed, and that is why we will be voting from my parliamentary group, for the compliment of this motion; also for the compliment of the motion for a resolution that we approved two days ago for the financing of the schools in Bressol and the co-responsibility of the Generality. And just thank all the interventions and say that today we're going out with a compromise with the present but also with the future, and with a better model of society for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.89.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We shall now proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Before the vote on the motion, I think it's been pretty clear, but in any case, the record that points a, b and c have been removed from point 2, huh? Ask the groups if they can vote on the joint motion in a single vote. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Go ahead and vote for this young man. The vote begins. The motion following the Government's inquiry into the first child care services was unanimously approved, i.e. 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Once voted on this motion, we suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much. [[The session is suspended at one in the middle and five minutes and is resumed at three in the late and five minutes. He chairs the President of the Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the Secretary General and the late Anna Casas and Gregory.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.90.0	Good evening, deputies, deputies; we follow the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Government's public communication media]] [[302-000009/12]] [[The new point is the motion following the question to the Government about the public communication media of the Generality, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, Ms. Andrea Levy has the word. When you want, Congresswoman.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.91.0	Okay. With me two minutes and a half, I'll be short. The truth is that this is a young person following an inquiry that, as you could see in the text, in the statement, we tried to be as open and as transversal as possible. We understand that, including the independence groups, who feel – they do – reflected on television and public media and the radio in Catalonia, so they could vote in favour of it, because I think they cannot be against guaranteeing a television, with a programme and a radio..., a programme that reflects the diversity and political, social and cultural pluralism of the Catalan society. So much that you're not in favor of this. In the same way that we believe that the independence groups should also be in favour of opening up to a wider range of external audiovisual companies the contracting of TV3 programming. I understand you can't be against this. And I also believe that the independence groups, they do see TV3 represented, will have nothing to do with adopting the necessary measures because, in their own electoral processes, the public communication media guarantee the compliment of the principles contained in electoral legislation. And that, therefore, we do not go to another electoral process in which TV3 and Catalunya Radio are sanctioned a posteriori, for the Electoral Board, for the coverages that they have done, subjectively, as happened in the last electoral process, we have sanctioned the Mònica Terribas for their editorials, effectively, with independence; or the coverage of TV3, for example, of the independence demonstrations in Brussels, without taking into account this diversity and pluralism of the Catalan society. Therefore, I believe that here you are portraying, and here, in this motion, you will demonstrate whether TV3 really has the longing, the ambition to be a television..., and Catalunya Radio a radio broadcaster with the will to be transversal and reflective of pluralism in Catalonia, or whether, so far, TV3 only... – and Catalunya Radio – will only serve the independence cause. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.92.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, to defend the papers presented, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and has the word Mr. David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.93.0	Thank you, President. MPs, councillor... I must confess that it is really desperate to remember, every ple that carries a motion about the communication media, which must be the function of public service that these people are to exercise. It's sad and it's really indignant to see that the criteria that have to be set on our television and radio don't apply. But, unfortunately, that's the usual tonic. You've managed to get TV3 to be the altar of separatist theses and have done a lot of good work; you must recognize that you've done a lot of good work. Their goals have been achieved through different lives, different paths. One of these, for example, is through the director that you posed – or his predecessors – a person who, both to the control committee and to the different interviews, says that: "Public television must represent the majority of Parliament and the social majority. As he believes that the social majority is independent, he says what the reality says, so I moved to television programming and I moved to the editorial line. As Hegel said: "If reality does not fit, in this case, with Mr. Sanchis, or with the independent lords, then, worse for reality. First of all, let's just tell them that the director of TV3, the one who makes conferences with you and with stelades later on, so he's wrong. Public television has to represent the citizens' joint, because they are these, the joint of all the citizens of Catalonia, who pay for public television and radio. I think we should be aware of that. But if we accepted his premises, the premises of the director of TV3, which are unacceptable, but even if we accepted them, I would also be wrong. On one side, because it is obvious that independence does not have a social majority. And of the other, because the Parliament of Catalonia, in this Parliament, the Parliament and its majority Parliament, failed him of his charge. Therefore, following the logic of Mr. Sanchis, this person should not be in his charge. Therefore, it is clear that with statements such as these it is difficult that the criteria of plurality, neutrality, objectivity, therefore, are visualizing in the editorial line and in the programs of our media, but there are many reasons, many, that make that, from Ciutadans, we raise the view to this violation of the criteria to be governed. For example, the renewal of the Corporation Council, which its mandate, as you all know, has expired. By the way, it's not just Ciutadans, I think many other groups of this parliamentary chamber are claiming it, and so is the Enterprise Committee. We believe that it should be renewed with vast majority, broad consensus, and also by public competitions. And so he claims the law that we've introduced again in this new legislature to amend the Audiovisual Law. Will we get all these necessary changes done once and for all? We'd appreciate it if we could just wait. But what's going on? What's going on so we don't get it? So that the government's parties are stalling between them, to know who their cadres are, and, therefore, the issue is paralyzed. Would you please stop using public media as a propaganda device to serve your parties? Do you want to be a little responsible for public media? Constable Artadi, in her reply to the inquiry, I don't know if she'll remember it because they've had the ple shut for so long, so, I don't know if she'll remember it, she said she agreed that she wanted objective, neutral public media. Do we agree, do we agree...? Therefore, act accordingly. Why don't they go through their eyes? Why don't they come out of this processor candy to see that, even at the international level, they see this lack of plurality? And I'm not gonna go in and talk about the ACC, which I think we'd have plenty of time to talk about? In short, we have submitted some papers that have been accepted, and we are grateful to the proposing group, and we will vote in favour of this motion to continue claiming public media from all and for all, and to continue claiming public media that are not the Great Brother of the Process, but to complement the public service that they are to exercise. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.94.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialists and Units for Progress Parliamentary Group, of Mr David Pérez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.95.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament; councillors... we shall vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution. We will vote in favour of preserving the public service condition of our media. We will vote in favour of our media continuing, also reflecting the diversity, political, social and cultural pluralism of Catalan society. And we will vote in favour of giving more support to the country's audiovisual sector, and we will also vote in favour of the principles and contents of electoral legislation to avoid new sanctions, as happened in the past elections. And we would also vote in favour, for the first time, of the need to reform audiovisual legislation in order to renew the bodies we have pending renewal. And I will refer only to two elements of these that we have commented on: the need for pluralism, more pluralism. The counselor said: "No, our media are already plural. They are not plurals – they are not plurals – there is an 80_percent of the independence electorate that you see TV3; but the people who vote non-independence parties, in the best of cases, are the 17_per_cent that you see TV3. This is an anomaly and it wasn't like that before – it wasn't like that before. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! Is it the people who don't want to see TV3? Home..., this effort, on behalf of everyone, to see that the public media are at the bottom of everyone and everyone feels like seeing these media, I think it should be an effort on the part of the government – I think it should be an effort on the part of the government. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Don't you have We're plurals already. If they don't look at us, don't look at us..., it's a mistake – it's a mistake – Gerard, really, it's a mistake, but well... The other issue: for the first time, we have to say that we have to renew the control mechanisms, the corporation, the CCMA. Absolutely agree, David, Mr. MP; absolutely agree, as we did in Madrid ; absolutely agree, as we did in Barcelona Television, in BTV, as we have already done historically and as is the proposal that we are doing and have always done in this Parliament. And that, moreover, then and in a consensual manner, with two thirds of the Parliament and that, moreover, it is possible to do, also, with a public system and that..., let's say, any professional can present in this renewal of the organs. But look, opposition groups, we've always wanted to do this in a consensual way. We've tried, but up a point... – which I'm already saying here and I'm already announcing – that up a point that we have to put ourselves to do. And if there is no way, we..., I will ask my parliamentary group that the week you see or the other, as well as many, present a legislative initiative to do so. Because it's been a long time since we gave it to this plenary, and, what's worse, it seems like when we do, we need to renew the control mechanisms, and we're cool. No, no... it's been six months since we gave it, so let's do it one time. And I think we have a compromise. And what's to be done is the government's games, I say, ah! If the government parties don't do it, we'll do it ourselves, huh? Therefore, honourable Member, Andrea Levy, absolutely in agreement with the joint motion, and we will vote all points in a favourable way. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.96.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.97.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Levy, whatever they say in your motion is formally correct, we have to recognize them: this time they don't come with any barbarity in the text respecting what they want to do with the corporation. What happens is that coming from you, who have not been an example of virtues, precisely, of plurality when they depend on their governments some public communication means, the truth is that it is difficult to vote for them. But, besides, focusing on what we're dealing with today, when it's you who are constantly using the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation as a launch weapon, it's hard to vote for them as much as they're formally correct. I say, therefore, that we shall abstain in its resolution, just as we have done with what they have practically laid down the same points in the General Policy Plenary. And we will repeat the petition made to us a few weeks ago by the representatives of workers of the corporate media, both the business committees and the professional councils of TV3 and Catalunya Radio, who called on all of us to "commit to halt speeches and messages of agitation against TV3, Catalonia Radio and the rest of the media in order not to promote a climate of hostility against workers and workers of the media. Because attacks on informants is an attack on the exercise of a constitutional right of information of the citizenry. And yes, one Member told them that for years now she has been complaining about the general bias that has taken over the information and the view that is also shown in good part of the programming of the media of the corporation; that she is also very concerned about the data that a while ago also arose, in which we are told that an 80_percent of the citizenry that says that they voted independent parties see TV3; but, on the other hand, only a 15_percent of the voters of Ciutadans, PSC or PP see TV3. And that's denied and no one can value it positively. This is to make Catalonia's television stop being the country's television and not just for the linguistic issue. Therefore, we have to worry and occupy, all folds, to lead this situation. But moving this circumstance, these data, this reality to an attack on the professionals directly or generating with them an environment hostile to the exercise of their work is irresponsible. We report it and uncheck it. You do what you do. And we're complaining that no one's trying to cover the issue with this type of controversy. The point is that the Parliament has a responsibility and we are the ones who have to solve the problem. The problem is that it has to be the renewal of the Corporate Governance Council. And I had to do it with broad criteria. And to make the reform of the Law of the Corporation to make a real de-government of TV3 and Catalunya Radio. In this regard, we will approve the last point they have added to the People's Party motion via the transaction with Citizens. It is the same thing that we, more or less, have tabled in the General Policy Plenary, which we have approved in multiple motions and resolutions and, obviously, in coherence, this point is that we will vote in favour of it. But I'm also telling them that we're not making any motions or resolutions, we're seeing it, and we've seen it for the past few years. That's why we do more. I have here a text of a bill of law, and I will now pass it to the spokesman of all parliamentary groups to sign it. It is the text that we came to by consensus in a bill at the end of last legislature to renew the Law of the Corporation, to renew the Law of the Council of the Audiovisual, to be able to renew the governing bodies of these two entities with vast majority and complete legal certainty. And so today, you can still sign this text, you can register it and we can do a quick processing to be able to make legislative changes, like at least these points, and make the renewal that comes from the Corporate Governance Council and, also, the Audiovisual Council. Too many easy and incendiary speeches from one another, enough to use the professionals and the citizenry to feed them and a little responsibility to resolve what is close to us in the Parliament of Catalonia. I already sign this text, that all the groups have taken over the past year, for which we have all given up some of the matters we have respect for how this renewal is to be made, but that at least you already have a clear consensus and it allows us to do so quickly. If they don't sign it, then we'll all end up portrayed in the end whether we really want to attack the issue of making corporate media more plural. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.98.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of the Lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.99.0	Good afternoon. Many things have already been said in the interventions of previous groups. We, therefore, objectively, with the wording laid down by the People's Party... well, we might agree. What do we want with media representing and demonstrating the diversity of this country? Of course – of course – we want it. But it is obvious, with the sequence of motions, motions for resolutions that have been put forward, what is the intent of this motion? The intention you have is to undermine the work of public media professionals. And it is that, moreover, you have very little credibility than you, Popular Party, make a proposal on these issues with which you have come to do with public media in the Spanish State. Also, as the companions of the commons have already said, we, in coherence, will vote in favour of the point that is precisely a Ciutadans theme. But it is that, in addition, we are surprised – we are surprised – by this need and this will to vote this point of the PP. Because we ourselves last week presented to the general policy debate a motion for a resolution with the same intention: the urgent need, which has already stood on the table, to renew the governance of the media and the Audiovisual Media Corporation of Catalonia. What happens is that if the CUP presents it, it is not a priority, but if the PP presents it, yes. We're just as present, what we believe is that it's a priority. And what the government is doing to stop and postpone this renewal, so, truth be told, we don't like it. We think we need to make a parliamentary election process for two thirds of the chamber. But this de-governance of communication means is not the only key to the question: what is a dispartitization. And in this we may enter into many debates, with which we grab the glove in the consent text to modify the law urgently, of course, we have always told you. They'll always find us here. Now, let's not change this law to reach a few broad consensuses when they may want to be each one of their own. We've already told them: we don't want our chair in this governance to the governing council of public communication media. What we want is that it is more professional, more transparent, that it is in the service of the people and that the workers of TV3 and Catalonia Radio have representation and can participate in the most important decisions that are made in this area. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.100.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Congresswoman Jenn Díaz. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.101.0	Thank you, President. Counselors... well, we'll be back, we're here another time to debate the country's public media, to question the rigour and professionalism of its workers. We are here another time to discuss a question that we can easily summarize by quoting Mr Albiol, who is not with us now. You want to turn on TV3 and open it with normal people. Bearing in mind that the PP's project for the public media in the State is that "if you don't like it, change the channel, it seems to me a little distressed to come here to do an exercise of cynicism and demagology, to intoxicate, to make political speeches on such an important issue. The Catalan public media are also, among other things, the driving force behind the impulse of culture and language. And it's maybe that motivator, and not quite the plurality they ask for at the media, which really worries them. Because it is in the defense of language and culture where you are unprotected, neutralized and speechless. Because it's with culture and language, with their encouragement, with consumption habits and language protection, when you and your partners are silent, they grow, because they don't care, they make us for their confrontation speech because they don't fit in. They ask for monograms of coexistence but they continue with their mantras and tensioning. The real threat is this: they don't want to open TV3 with normal people, they want to shut it down, and they want to lose it, as they do with the republic movement. They want to close and cancel it, they want to standardize the speech from public media, as they have already done in the State and commented on my companies, and they want to politicize media. Nor does it surprise us, because, why shouldn't they do it, if they politicize school, if they politicize language, if they politicize even all their acquaintances, if they politicize the origin of the citizens of this country, if they politicize everything to distort social reality? And instead of letting politics remain, here, in Parliament and not in the schools, in Parliament and not in the language, instead of letting politics express itself in its natural place do all the opposite: the judiciary and bring it to court, threaten with quarrels, hinder politics with capitals. When they talk about blocking TV3 and opening it with normal people, I suppose they refer to the television that the Electoral Board left us: a coerced, threatened television; a television that could not say 'exile', that could not say 'President Puigdemont', or 'busy advisors'; a television and a public space that could not display the groc colour. This is the television of normal people with whom they are, the one that censors and annihilates ideas, freedoms, rights, represent who they represent, whether they have or not the social majority, whether they are there. Perhaps for the first time we will agree with Mr. Albert Rivera, these media that went through the weavers of the Electoral Board assemble more to the Node than to some modern media of the 21st century updated and, ultimately, democratic. Meanwhile, in a world parallel to yours, on TV3, we find you to be of all kinds, even those who deeply offend us, even Vox, popular and artifice accusation of the judicialization of Catalan politics and, therefore, of what our citizens and our citizens vote for, even a far-right party has held TV3 to the point of disturbing the risky and posing audience above all the information and possible interest of society. The counter reaction, however, is not the same when the words of Vice President Oriol Junqueras appear on a Spanish TV show. Is that what you consider a public television with normal people? A separate and scary television? A television you can't give space to a man like Oriol Junqueras, who's had more respect for you than you've ever had for him? Is that what they want, a TV dressed in black all the divenders? Is this the project they have in public media? Don't embarrass me, because the problem for Mr. Albert Rivera, and he told Els matins, with journalist Lidia Heredia..., the problem is that journalists can do and sort out those questions that they consider appropriate. That's what really worries them: I can't control everything. But they put it very easily in the background, because the data speak for themselves and we can't lower the debate or fall, like you, into irresponsibility. The reports of the CEO, the CIS, the ACC and, more importantly, the audience, answer them with the strength they deserve, but not only: this Parliament will defend its public media as often as possible. In the third point we will abstain, because we consider that political neutrality at the time when we vote for parliamentary groups is not possible, but in the rest of the points we will fight this demagogue: here, in Parliament, we are doing politics and voting that we are not. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.102.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Josep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.103.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, visitors, parliamentary workers, lady Levy, ladies of the PP, to you fans outside the Spanish Government, the plea Mariano Rajoy, the plea Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, the pleas Mr Albiol also, but his obsessions remain. Or they go further, because Mr. Married has to compete with Mr. Rivera and Vox for ultra space now. Now the reception against Catalonia is another 155 extended to public media, as if the previous one did not potenja enough. With these intentions, don't they think this young man has a little short, a little flow? But since we're there, let's talk about it. Disguisedly, posing a pell of shai– Citizens not so much– continue to question... – not so much« pell of shai, « questioning yes – continue to question the model of Catalan public media. Now the argument only will be – today has not had time to say it but has repeated it many times – "Audience does not equal quality and plurality. Look, they're right, because some TVs show it often; they do an infected programming but they have an audience. But the case is that TV3 is the leader of the audience and, unfortunately, it is also the most trusted and credible television, the most plural, the most quality, as all the controls that apply to it indicate. You are constantly questioning the professionalism of the workers of these media. In this young man they also talk about external contracting, and opening it up to more producers. That's what they premeditatedly ignore, once more, the reality. The contracting of the corporation is governed by criteria of transparency and freedom of competition, with public slogans for the whole sector. Ignore premeditatedly that all the contract can be consulted with the Enterprise Transparency Space and that, if this consultation is made, it is found that it is working with a wide range of different companies. And, when they talk about sanctions to the Electoral Administration for violation of the information neutrality only to put it in context, and Jenn Díaz said: it was the hyper-motivated electoral board, which, in full application of 155, was dedicated to forbid the notice to manifest itself in a grocque, to ban the grocque on public sources and to ban the grocque ties on the day of the referendum. All this defies his report, but he did not obsess it with the Catalan public media. Because then, one time and another, go over here to Mrs. Levy and explain to us that she liked TV3 better than she liked TV3 before and she didn't. That TV3 and that Catalonia Radio used to please them the most because it was the public media that reflected the reality of that moment, the reality of a Catalonia that administered autonomy and the political debate that consisted of discussing here in this Parliament whether they fell more competition or not, whether autonomy was well funded or not, whether you agree with these and with us not... "The Catalan oasis, you say. What's changed from now on is not TV3, it's not Catalonia Radio, it's the country. Now the most important part of the country is the one that wants to go more there, the one that has overcome autonomy and wants independence, and in this country, too, there are various options that are against this, but they are the ones that have aligned with the Spanish government to prevent it and that to do so they have used politics, the courts, the others – worth the redundancy, in some cases – banks, big businesses, communication media... Because all the folds, all these, have been unable, now also with Pedro Sánchez to the government, to treat it as a political issue. TV3 and Catalonia Radio of this day are the ones that reflect this reality, with all its complexity, which is very, certainly. I repeat what I said to you a few months ago: it's not that you don't like TV3, they don't like it the way this country has changed, they don't like it the way it is now, and that's why they have policies, independent activists in prison and want to intervene or shut down TV3. Because TV3 and Catalonia Radio are, with these flaws and things to improve, the look of this reality; the reality that tells us that what was an oasis has become a prison. Therefore, we will abstain at point 3, because it is an unnecessary repetition, but our votes, the votes of Juntes for Catalonia will not tend to attack the model of public media. They tend, yes, those who stole the Llarena jutge, the votes that satisfy the aspirations of this part of the hemisphere, the stolen votes they sought since they did not accept the results of the 21st of December. We, however, will continue our path of respect to which the people voted, which is the path of independence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.104.0	Thank you, Congressman. To position herself on the exams, has the word Ms. Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.105.0	Yes; thank you, President. I, actually, never thought you guys would make it that easy. We might be suspicious of that, but it is clear that today the independenceists certify what we have been saying for a very long time, that you are not interested in a TV3 that reflects the pluralism of Catalan society. That is why – and I will allow myself the pleasure of reading it – you do not want to ensure that the programming of all the public media in Catalonia is a reflection of the diversity and political, social and cultural pluralism of Catalan society. You will vote that no, therefore, you already say that TV3 is your independence court, and that you are not interested at all in speaking of pluralism. Thank you so much for having certified it that way. To the amendments tabled I would like to say: we are going to join the initiative that the Socialist Party colleague has said; we believe that it is good that this renewal should take place; we believe that this positive that there is also a new audiovisual law. I agree, but, man, Mr de Podemos, necessary collaborators of the purge and the descent of TVE 1 hearings, it is very good to say this: "I abstain in yours, but I agree in everything you say. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.106.0	Quiet, and please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.107.0	I'll do the same with you. I agree with what you say in your bill, but I will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.108.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.109.0	Vote on point three separately, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.110.0	Okay. The remaining two points can be voted in block. Yeah? [[Marta Ribas Frías asks to speak.]] Mrs. Ribas, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.111.0	To ask for a separate vote from the last point. Is the last one already separated? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.112.0	Last one's three. It's the one who just asked that it's votes separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.113.0	All right, I'm sorry, so he's on the clock. And for the direct allusions made to us by Mrs Levy, even though she tells us about Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.114.0	No, allusions are direct allusions. This morning, obviously, we didn't give the word for this, so we would follow the same tonic, Mrs Ribas. [[Pause.]] All right. Let us now proceed to the vote. We will vote, first, the third point of this motion – the third point –; that is, the last point, eh? We vote for the third point. The vote begins. This point, the third point of this motion is approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Let's now vote on the two remaining points of this young man, that is, the 1st and the 2nd. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 65 against and 8 abstentions. Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day. [[Condol demonstration for victims of October 9 in Mallorca]] Before, however, allow me, in the name of the chamber, to express our most sincere and profound condolences for the mortal victims caused by the intense plugs in Mallorca, as well as to express, like the Parliament of Catalonia, our solidarity with the relatives of the victims. For this reason the proposals, Members and Members, save a minute of silence, in the sense of mourning. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism]] [[302-0010/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The point of the order of the day is the motion following the inquiry to the government on tourism. It is a motion presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and, to expose it, has the word Ms. Laura Vílchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.115.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Members, Members. Look, Spain is a great country. And I really think this has to be said the most. We have to value that, leaving aside what they want us to believe, in Spain it is undertaken, innovated, created and fought to recover us from a crisis that has struck us and continues to hit us with force. As you know, tourism in Spain makes us one of the world's leading powers in this area, and Catalonia as well. Tourism means, in Catalonia, nothing more and nothing less than a 12_percent of gross domestic product and nothing more and nothing less than 13_percent of jobs, figures that are not negligible so that the Government is not only not supporting them, but is complicating their lives with their fatal decisions and, therefore, generating legal and political insecurity that benefits them at all. The whole sector knows – and you know it too – that this year has brought down the occupation, billing and overnight stays of both international visitors and the rest of Spain, the latter up to 11.3_per_cent, according to the data of July of the Idescat. The Catalonia brand and, in particular, the Barcelona brand have been severely eroded by a number of factors, but the most shameful is the one that you have provoked: tourism-phobia campaigns that carry out parties that are in the government or those that make some of your partners. And, look, all of this being denied is very ridiculous – it's very ridiculous – because they have to see what, they have to understand what and they have to start acting accordingly, because it's drawer and these data are totally objective. The worst is uncertainty, because what is true is that today we are not seeing the effects that will have on the tourism sector of vacations and congresses. Anyone who analyses this situation with a minimum of rigour and seriousness comes very easily to the conclusion that these impacts will be seen in the medium or long term. And this I say, but also says the Secretary General of the World Tourism Organization, who warns of the erosion that causes a situation of political tension in tourism. More examples. Countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada and the United States, do not know if they know but warn their citizens from their embassies of the conflict in Spain. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] Does this seem normal to you? Do you think it is normal for the embassies to be warning their citizens of the conflict that it would be to travel to Catalonia? Or is this also a lie? Do these embassies also create false accounts? Do you see how ridiculous your speech turns out outside your trial bubble? We will continue to maintain our constructive will for and for the sector. And with the motion we are presenting today, we are going to try to get them to work on what is really useful for the sector and for the Catalan economy. We're going to try to stop you from closing in on yourself, to stop trying to establish borders, to stop scorning those who come or who would like to come to visit us because that's good for us – it's good for us. It's good for many small businesses, it's good for many families who live on tourism, and if the sector goes well, it's good for them. And considering that there are 13_per_cent jobs in Catalonia, let's take care of it. Let's take care of all those tourism professionals that go from cooks to hoteliers, from restaurateurs to merchants. Let's show ourselves how we are: plural, open, modern. And you, the rulers, both of the community and of the biggest tourist activity we have, which is Barcelona, have to stop talking bad about Spain, because..., you have to stop doing what it is that you do every day. That is why we have tabled a motion with fourteen points, with varied proposals for updating, for the dynamism of new models, for digitisation, of course, without forgetting the fight against job insecurity or security in the streets. In short, we are going to try to make this our granite sand..., to work for this sector and to work well, and to be, at last, part of the solution to this uncertain situation that we are experiencing, and to be, please, no longer part of the problem. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.116.0	To defend the papers presented, there is now the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Pom, Mr. Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.117.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, talking about tourism cannot just be talking about macroeconomic data about tourism in the Catalan economy, nor can it be reducing the role of governments in promoting tourism and deregulation in the sector. Neither the governments are travel agencies, nor are they satisfactory surveyors, nor Catalonia is Marina d'Or, a holiday city. Today's talk of tourism is about a sector that has a strategic dimension in the Catalan economy and a direct impact on our society. Therefore, talking about tourism is talking about governing a tourism model that is good and not about opening our cities to deregulation and precariousness. This young man was up late, up after the high season of tourism and up more like an excuse to talk about the process than an opportunity to talk about our tourism model. But we don't want to lose the opportunity to do it. We don't want to build cities for tourism, but we want to build a tourism model for our cities. And this happens because the government governments and defends the interests of Catalonia and its citizens. Faced with the deregulation that threatens the right to decent housing, it is necessary that the government governments and follow the steps of the Barcelona Assembly, which has already closed more than 2,400 illegal tourist floors. Faced with the deregulation that threatens the taxi sector, we demand that the government governments and put the money back, as the Barcelona Metropolitan Area has done. We agree with you that it is necessary for the government to study the sector, but not only to put black on white of the year 2017, but, especially, to build among all a tourism model of the future, a sustainable model that is engine of equality and prosperity. We want tourism to be part of our cities, but not for tourism, and we want governments to govern to ensure that they are not engines of inequality. We will support your young lady in all those points that strengthen the government's role in the better and manage her tourism model, but there are fund issues that we find missing, not only in your young lady, but in your economic bet. The tourism sector's temporality already exceeds 30_per_cent, nine points above the average of the Catalan economy and four and a half points above 2016. It is necessary to reverse the effects of labour reforms and to provide resources for labour inspection to deal with labour fraud. The hotel's profitability has increased by 49,7_per_cent in two years, a figure that contrasts with the fact that the pee chambers continue to charge two euros with thirty cents per room, and that contrasts with the fact that you have been blocking the reform of the Workers' Status for two years to prevent the tourism model from being built on outsourcing, wage detail and job insecurity. When you talk about tourism, as you do in your own country, or you talk about the Catalonia brand, we have to ask ourselves whether it is tourism for Ciutadans that the pee-cambers protest in front of the hotels that exploit them at work, or that they see them protest because the uncontrollable tourism drives them out of their barrels. Or if it's tourismphobic that the workers, most young and temporary, protest for their working conditions. Or upside down, if they want, if the Catalonia brand they want to build as a tourism promotion they want you to invisibly build on a tourism model that generates precariousness. I, lastly, to the government parties. Rule is not just about occupying a chair and telling them to rule from the first day they sat there. To govern is that the administrations put the government of speculation and the precariousness that threaten the Catalan society. That is why we demand that the Government, in this situation of democratic, economic and social exceptionality, place the Generality as a guarantee of a sustainable and orderly tourism model, that it does not expel our veins from the barrels, that it curbs labour insecurity in the sector, and that it requires all economic actors that are not a driver of inequality but of equity and progress. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.118.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Baró has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.119.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we, the Republicans, have very clearly what model of tourism we want: the one that makes Catalonia a destination of quality; the one with a diversified offer that ensures the economic, social and environmental sustainability of tourism activity; and, obviously, the one that helps to make the world aware of the tasks that distinguish us. For us this happens, for example, to ensure the quality and sustainability of the services to tourists by making the benefits that tourism generates distributed among the entire population. Or, for example, driving others to preserve our cultural and natural heritage; a factor of unique competitiveness of great value and which speaks of who we are through historical, cultural, natural and heritage elements. They understand, for example, that the Barcelona brand is key to boosting tourism activity in the country. This is why it is essential to ensure the fit and compatibility between the tourist activity and the city's urban and residential functions. I will only donate two data from the National Institute of Statistics, which summarises the state of health of tourism in Catalonia. First of all, the figures of international visitors still remember, as they were already 2016 and as they were 2017. Catalonia is the first undisputed tourist destination of the Spanish State, almost 25 percent of international tourists arriving in the Spanish State passing through Catalonia. And that's despite all the bad luck: despite the storm of August 17th; despite the ticks and violence of the diseased state and all the images that circulated around the city world that were hit on October 1st; despite the economic, business, banking, etc. boycotts. According to data, until this August, international tourists who have visited Catalonia have spent more than last year. It is to say, that Catalonia is consolidated as a destination that advances more in quality than in quantity, precisely in line with the tourism model that we need, that we seek and that we want. From here we understand that we need to listen to those proposals that can help us to lie down to this model, to strengthen it. We, the Republicans, are people talking, proposing and building mena. We celebrate that you, for once, have tried to be purposeful. This has allowed better points to fall more sectorial. And I say get better because many of his proposals seem to be full of naphthaline and pull it out. In the end it was possible to pull forward. But then we get to the critical point, the political point, huh? , from the young man, to the concept. I read exactly: « Preserve the public spaces, the main tourist icons – and so on – of the political symbols that could generate confrontation or division with tourism from other countries and especially with that of the rest of Spain. I ask you, by the way, I understand that you understand that the Franco symbols must be removed from public space, as provided for by law, because they represent the dictatorship and repression exercised by a genocide, eh? [[Greetings.]] Because it is obvious that this creates a discomfort between the Democrats, whether or not they are tourists. In fact, it causes discomfort among any person who has two front sayings. Is that what they were looking for with this point? Or maybe they're worried about the deep loops? Maybe they're worried about the deep loops? Are they telling me that they are worried about the trossets of dark-colored plastic, the dark-colored laces with which the citizenry expresses freely, civically, peacefully, its solidarity and claims freedom and innocence of prisoners and political pressures? See if I understand, then. Or go on, it bothers them. [[the timer is set to the place where it is placed]] The freedom of expression, but do not bother them that there is a mausoleum of fascism that would be the supreme shame in any democratic state that you have done a minimum real exercise of historical repair and historical memory. Or else it bothers them, this laxity. [[the timer is set to the place where it is placed]] freedom of expression, but they do not disturb the fascist symbols that lack respect and the dignity of so many victims and that exhibit themselves with impunity to unusual manifestations where you participate without much trouble or indifference. Do you understand what you're defending? Do you get along with how, with your behavior, you value perilous attitudes? Doesn't it have to be that you try to hide that you have a serious problem of intolerance to democracy? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.120.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, he has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per Catalunya, the Lord Ferran Roquer. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.121.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, Director General of Tourism, Mrs Vílchez, explained here a country and explained a situation of the tourism sector that we cannot share. And we can't share it because we don't want to share it on our own, but because the data supports the contrary of what you said. I'll degracate him, but I'll let him, first, what we'll do with his next move: we'll vote yes to apart 3, 5, 6, 7, 10 and 12, to transactions 1, 2, 8, 9 and 13. And we'll vote no to points 4, 5a, 11 and 14. I let them explain why. Tourism is indeed a key industrial sector in the Catalan economy. It is a key industrial sector in the Catalan economy in its participation and one day it should also be in the best distribution of this participation. They tell us we're doing a 2018 study on the behavior of the tourist market. Well, and they also tell us that the process, this demon that appears here in Catalonia, has caused fewer tourists to come. They must also be in « trial in Asturias, which the first six months of the year dropped a 7.3; La Rioja, which dropped a 5.6; Canàries – Canàries –, a 2.9 or Galicia, with a 2.5, a descent of a 2.5. Catalunya went down a 2.5, too. Only the Balears presented a positive result. It is worth saying that, from generation to August 2017 to 2018, there has been a reduction in the number of tourists: a 2,4_per_cent less tourists have come to see us. That's right, they've spent an extra 6.7. Yes, the average per person was a 9,6_per_cent more, and the average day per person, an 11,4; two digits. This is the tourism we want, Mrs. Vílchez. We want tourists who come to use the cultural resources, the natural resources of Catalonia, but who leave more money per capita, which is more productive. Only the month of August, during the month of August, 31,499 more visitors came than the month of August of last year. This year – this year – with all these images coming out, I don't know which embassies. And they say to us: "They preserve the public spaces of political symbols. Man! You imagine that tourists know that they are going to a country where their citizens, beyond being able to put ballot boxes, cannot express themselves freely on the street! Imagine that I came a Belgian, that I came a Scot, that I came a German or that I came a Swiss: I would be glad that the country that the rep, the citizens of the country that the rep, wanted to have legislation like his own, in which there are no new processes and the people that are in the ballot box do not persecute themselves. This is a value for this country, Mrs. Vílchez! [[Greetings.]] We must promote this, Mrs. Vílchez! Let 'em have another thing. He tells us: "We have to make a plan of better mature destinations. There is a pilot plan, as the Director General of Tourism knows well, which is here in front of Lloret de Mar; well, an integral remodeling and an integral thinking of tourism in the area of Lloret de Mar – I liked to be able to participate in its birth. Well, do you know why he did it? Because this country did the year 2012, it created a pioneer tax on the Iberian peninsula, on stays in touristic establishments, which was able to induce a cost of 63_million euros by making development plans worth 22_million euros. And I'll give him the last time I wanted to give him. Tell us to decrease the number of congresses in Barcelona. Okay. The year 2017, any record: 2,134 congresses, a 10_per_cent more than the previous year; with a volume of negotiations of 1,850_million euros, a 21_per_cent more than the year 2016. Madrid, in which there has been no independenceist or squab demon, was the seven city of the world in the matter of congresses. Mrs Vílchez, let's worry about tourism, about politics in favour of tourism, and let's not try to do politics with tourism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.122.0	Next, to fix his position, the deputy of the Socialists and Units Group has the words to advance Mr Rafel Bruguera. When you're ready, Mr. Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.123.0	With venom, President. Ladies and gentlemen deputies, councillors, good afternoon. The summary and appreciation that we would make of the inquiry, that is, of the debate generated on the 4th of July between the councillor and the deputy Vílchez, from Ciutadans, from our point of view would be the following: ma'am will advise – that it is not there –, they are not all flowers and violets nor, deputy Vílchez, it is all a disaster. It is true that we came from a very good year 2017, remembering, and that this 2018, unfortunately, is not so good. That's it. But maybe we could look at some of the causes, at least, from our point of view, three. In the first place, a worrying descent of Spanish tourism, as a consequence of the political debate in which we are immersed. Secondly, the recovery of certain tourist destinations, clearly competing with us, such as Tunisia, Turkey, Egypt or Greece, countries which have invested heavily in new and large infrastructures and which are applying low-cost policies. And, in the third place, concern for the future of congress and convention tourism and for business tourism, which particularly affects Barcelona – and I am not referring to the year 2017 and 2018, but to the future. And this I think is already marking some lines of action, some priorities that we should hear should be reflected and prioritized in the expected and very delayed – come very late, yet we don't have them – national tourism and marketing plan. What are they, from our point of view, these priorities? In the first place, re-establish a promotion strategy to the rest of the Spanish State. Secondly, to replace the struggle for leadership in tourism of low prices and competition in prices, to bet firmly, much more firmly, will advise absent, for quality, diversification, specialisation and territorial and sectoral innovation, sustainability, decentralisation, regulation and order of the new touristists and the struggle against job insecurity in the sector. We urgently need a plan of work to combat job insecurity, for example, of which the Government of the Balearic Islands has already implemented, especially in Eivissa and Formentera. Thirdly, to re-place Barcelona as a world leader, short and medium term, where, I repeat, we have an important degree of concern. In fourth place, regulation and control of the shared areas, the rooms and floors of the lodge, the illegal offer of apartments and other tourist accommodation, and not to pass the problem only to the joints. And in five places, and globally – and this corresponds not only to tourism policy – return to stability and mutual trust from the institutional dialogue and cooperation. In short, we need as much as we need to talk again about tourism, put it in value, and not hear it as a problem, but as a challenge and opportunity to generate more economic progress, more investment and more quality. Tourism is a global market and very competitive, and each time it will be more global and every time it will be more competitive. It may bring tourism together with life in the territories, fostering spaces of dialogue and collaboration, and it may also be that tourism is the lever of other economic sectors, of the economy; for example, sustainable building, urban services, logistics and mobility, ICT and artificial intelligence applied to tourism experience, food, health, sports, culture, etc. We must not forget – it has already been said – that the tourism sector accounts for 12_percent of the Catalan GDP and around 14_percent of the employed people, but if we have the service sector here, a good part of which depends on the tourism sector, this tax would account for 20_percent of the employed people. And a data we have on the table for reflection. Historically, tourism has been..., it has drawn from the gross domestic product of our country. In these moments, tourism grows less than GDP. In reverse, tourism stops stretching out of GDP and grows less, tourism, than the one that grows in GDP. For what he does to the honourable Member, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of it, because many of the aspects that we have also raised have been raised on more than one occasion in this house. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.124.0	Thank you, Congressman Bruguera. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it's the turn of the Lady Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.125.0	Okay. Feeling them, we feel a little bit above which is the look they have on tourism, and more so with two representatives of my region that many responsibilities have on the situation and the effects of tourism on Empordad. We, on the motion presented by Ciutadans, disagree with the good part of what they are presenting. First, because it does not take into account the reality that the country has expressed with various mobilizations. Today, people are saying that they are tired of the economic benefits being left in a few hands and the negative repercussions are socialized between the veins and the veins, with job insecurity, with the difficulties of access to housing, and also with obvious repercussions on the environment. We do not agree because it wants to encourage the growth of the tourist sector, even more so, and facilitate its speculative practices. We do not agree because it defends the interests of the employer, and not of the conjunction of the people. Tourism is one of the most predatory legal sectors in its massive, extractive and monopolistic development. This is where the deepest devastations, the environment and extractivism are created. On the other hand, we do not agree either because with the term ‘tourism', the only one they claim is to criminalise the mobility they are looking for for a sustainable tourism model. There is no opposition to tourism – we have told you many times – in these mobilizations, only the need to have a settled tourist model that facilitates the coexistence of life. Requiring working conditions and a dignified life is not tourismophobia. Also, you know very well, for what it does to work questions... you have said so, and what you do to your young lady is propose some studies. Well, I don't think they do much, more studies. There are no studies that say that the tourism sector is one of the most precarious; the tourism sector report 2009-2026 says so. And, besides, in point 12, what they do is they try one way or another... as they try... it would seem that they want to penalize those companies that do that during the summer season there is not enough flow at the airports, and in the background what we think they are willing to do is, again, the one they have tried on other occasions, that is to restrict the right to vacate. Today, you are actually discussing whether tourism grows, does not grow tourism, about the consequences of the independence process and all folded; but in reality the neo-liberal tourism model they defend is the same. Therefore, they have a lot of ground to run to agree, but in this case the CUP, we are not, in the idea of the country-mark, because we do not want to live in a trimmer. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.126.0	It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.127.0	Yes, thank you, President. From the escó. To convey our support for the initiative, which is more written in terms very similar to one of the previous terms of reference that we have written since the People's Party Group and which, in our view, contains among other things three elements which, for us, are irrefutable. The first is to collaborate with the municipalities: there is a Barcelona brand, there is a Catalonia brand, they are powerful, but we have brands like Costa Brava, Costa Daurada, the same Tarragona, other municipalities..., and it is absolutely necessary that you can collaborate. Second question: be able to introduce instruments of innovation, instruments of competitiveness at the time of designing our tourist strategies. And, finally, the most important, donating the circumstances and also some speeches that have felt here, and it is doing a pedagogy in favor of tourism and against tourismphobia. It is obvious that everything in life can be improved, but I would like someone to think, before speaking categorically of precariousness, about the alternatives offered to thousands and thousands of people who find, in periods of study, etc., their first job in this type of sector, and that at the time of truth here no one is able to offer a serious alternative. And, therefore, before stigmatizing, seizing a sector as important to us as tourism, I think that it was good that people were a more responsible mike and taking into account the real situation of very many families that find in the seasonal pockets of tourism a system to be able to make their families come forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.128.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word of new MP Laura Vílchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.129.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, thank all the groups for their willingness to agree, to negotiate, ultimately, to work hard on useful policies. Also thank the presentations that Catalonia has presented to us in Comú Puem; we have incorporated them. And to Mr. Ferro, comment on a couple of questions. If you're late, this young man, ask the government groups why they've shut down Parliament since July. I said, "What is tourism for you? I was wondering. So tourismophobia is, for example, that Mrs. Colau justify attacks by Arran on tourist buses; this, for example – for example – to set an example. [[Greetings.]] To Mrs. Baro..., it seemed to me a lot of meaning, which made you compare the deep ties with the Franco and the fascist symbols. It seemed to me to mean something, because what we proposed to the young man is neutral – neutral spaces. And we don't want Franco's ties or symbols, as the Law of Historical Memory says. [[Greetings.]] To Mr. Roquer, who seemed to ridicule this proposal, sure – sure – that tourists love to find the flats full of creos, converted into ideological cements, sure they love them, sure that many tourists come to see these flats. In all ways, it is 'hosesfully', it is serious about this initiative. We'll be careful, we'll look into this young man's compliment. I'm trying to turn this situation around. We're working hard to make it happen – we'll make it happen – and we'll give the sector a 2019 to celebrate. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.130.0	We're calling it a vote. Meanwhile, ask the group if there is any separate motion for a vote. [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.131.0	Okay. I don't know if the rest of the groups have to keep shift stations. Perhaps it will be easier to vote point by point, but for us to make a block from '1 to 4; then to separate point 5 and point 5a; 6, 7, for another band, and the rest. But, well, I suppose there will be other changes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.132.0	We'll see about that. [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Mr. Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.133.0	We would call for a separate vote on points 4, 5a, 11 and 14. Thank you. [[Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.134.0	Mrs. Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.135.0	I'm sorry, President, it's just that almost every point would be good for us to vote for it separately, if it's not a big deal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.136.0	So we vote separately from all points, if it looks like it, and we'll end up before. All right. We shall vote, therefore, for the point of this motion. Let's start with point one. The vote begins. This first point was approved by 117 votes to 12, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. This point was approved by 117 votes to 12, with no abstentions. Let's vote point four. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5 was approved unanimously; that is to say, 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's now vote point number 5a– 5a. The vote begins. This point was approved by 68 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number seven. The vote begins. This point was approved by 117 votes to 12, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point number eight. The vote begins. This point – the eighth – was approved by 117 votes to 8, with 4 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point number nine. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let's just move on to vote point number 10. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to four, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote point number 11. The vote begins. This was approved by 64 votes to 61, with 4 abstentions. Let's now vote point 12. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to four, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 13. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to four, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote on 14th and after this young man. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the occupation of immovables for the duration of illegal activities]] [[302-00011/12]] Once the vote is taken on the motion, let's move to the next item on the agenda, which is the point... [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please! [[Pause.]] If you need to talk, please leave the hemicicle. If not, we will proceed to the next item on the agenda, which is the item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the occupation of immovables for the duration of illegal activities, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. There's a word from Mr. Jean Castel. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.137.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors... I see that there are no Councillors and today we are talking about a subject that would be important if there was the Councillors. Nevertheless, in order to make an advance of entry, the hardest of all: this young man should already have debated it in July, with a topic that directly affects all of Catalonia. And we're going to give the data with those four maps of the Catalan provinces, but today I'm going to put them down... and I'm going to take the example we have here in the canton, very close to the Raval's barrel. A barri that everyone knows about continuity. And a continuation that went further and with an added weight. Mirin, when there is a closed parliament, a lack of responsibility on the part of those who govern us..., it carries in many cases dramatic consequences. The drugs, the scope of the drama that carries and flushes them; the irresponsibility that goes towards also seeing that insecurity is growing in this barrio and throughout Catalonia, certainly in areas; the lack of willfulness – and this is the hardest. Look, you have to get used to knowing that you are ruling, and the parliamentary groups that are raising a government must begin to understand that things are working fan, not running away from study, not saying..., and coming here to make the good news, but that later on, there was no intention, there was no objection. In total, there are no appropriate tools to put in place, in this case, an Interior Councillor to the service of his citizenship. Mirin, the lack of will, like the goddesses, and the desire – the desire we have seen continuously – the lack of solutions – solutions that do not arrive. And I'm not just saying it to parliamentary groups anymore, it was a petition that we did directly to the council – we did it in committees – and I did it in the last question, and we asked for solutions. I see the smile keeps holding. I wouldn't laugh as long as the consequence directly affects people, counselor. Miri, his smile – his smile – sometimes unworthy – unworthy. [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] Yesterday, Raval's bars, a thirty-eight-year-old gentleman with a puncture to the chest. Does that make him laugh? It doesn't make me laugh, counselor. The ruts, counselor, the new ruts. [[The orador shows a planol to the chamber.]] This came out in the month of August; streets where we have eight narcopies, five, three... I think the laugh... sometimes they should go down..., look, they should start to come down from the pedestal of the comfort of a councillor or from the escho and start to climb the street. That's the deck. I'm starting to climb the street, to see the reality, because I laugh when there are people stabbed or sexual abuse... Miri, assaults, hoaxes; pallises and assaults, counselor – pallises and assaults. (The orator shows a full chamber.) « The Raval route, another news; among the news informs us of the streets and locations. You said to me the other day: "Well, and you'll make it easier for me... I made the documents available to you, but it's also sometimes, listening, as I already did to the inquiry, the problems we also see how the solutions can come. Sometimes it is indignant: you are very brave when you have threatened to sanction, using a law of citizen security, to which you clean our streets, to which you take and clean from party symbols a space that must be neutral, that is public space, which you still have a bad understanding. But stop being brave, huh? All of a sudden, we see them stop being brave when they face the mafias they're dealing with. Also ‘protected housing', ‘social housing... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You'll have your turn, counselor. I know he doesn't like what I'm telling him, but sometimes he shows the reality... I know it bothers you. I gave him a big hand, a big hand from this parliamentary group to help him also by working with a councillor. You know what we need? We need a consultant who wants to start working. What's going on, anni empeny, in Catalonia, right now, the government of Catalonia is making a very latent show of it, isn't it? You too, sometimes, are very valiant – very valiant – when they begin to designate such escorts to protect a fugitive, but then, by contrast, when we have to operate devices and everything that is safety tools, you are not, you are outside to avoid problems. Miri, the municipalities of Salt, Girona, Portbou, Cadaqués, Port de la Selva, Girona, Sant Cugat, Granollers, Sant Celoni... Flight that continues? We could make a stopover with a deployable that we'd miss hours. You put solutions to the problem. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Counselor, responsibility, as I said the other day, will keep us in the corner; for desire, he will never find us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.138.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.139.0	Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.140.0	It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. There's a word from Mr. Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.141.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Well, we're in front of a citizen's youth about citizen security that touches different points. We think she's an interesting young lady, who's well-intentioned, who touches points that are really interesting. Some point, you know, Mr. Castel, because we've talked about it, we think it goes beyond, let's just say, the line of what autonomy is and we think it's municipal competitions. We tried the deal, we didn't make it, but I think she's usually an interesting young woman who touches the necessary points and needs to be touched. I'm not going to say: the point is, I think that increasing economic resources and human resources, let's say, from Mossos d'Esquadra, in general, I think we all agree and it is absolutely essential and necessary to touch on this issue already. The points b and c are the points that we consider to exceed the municipal autonomy and we will not collect them, they are the only ones that we will vote against. As for the cbis point, without which it serves as a precedent, I would like to congratulate the People's Party on its presentation. I think it is also an indispensable point, the issue of cooperation and coordination between local police and squadron moss, and I think there is still a lot of way to improve and implement new mechanisms of collaboration and coordination. As for point d, in this we will abstain. It is interesting, too, the idea of protecting especially the public park of habitats, but we consider that the line, let us say, should not be in the fact that it is public or not, but in the extreme need and vulnerability of the person who occupies the habitat, is to say, if it is a family, for example, with small children, we consider that it is not to be taken away if there is no alternative from the table to ensure, therefore, that this family has a rest. In the case of e, in the case of the 'top blanket, the street sales, we also agree that there is a proactive and joint work with the local police. And as for the point f, also very well, I would like to highlight the issue of the multi-disciplinary solution; that is, it is not just based..., they do not focus solely on the subject of citizen security, but they point out that there are plans for social work integration for those people who are dedicated to the street sale and the "top manta". I think that's a very good idea. And more or less with the topic of narcotourism. So they're also planting a cross-cutting solution, and I think it's a good alternative. And as for the communities of our lives, we also agree, I think we can work harder. And there are some communities of life that we can already know, previously, that they will have a vulnerability, that they have a bigger risk. And I think that in these cases, therefore, it is a waste that Mossos d'Esquadra and the Generalitat, in this case, take particular account. Therefore, we shall vote in favour of the whole motion, except for points b and c, which we shall vote against, and point d, which we shall abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.142.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Xavier García Albiol. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.143.0	All right. Good afternoon, to point out that today we are presenting this proposal, this amendment proposal, with regard to bringing about a change; to bring about a change that means that the current situation that thousands and thousands of families are living in, where in their buildings, in their communities, in their plants it is more than evident that, for the current rule of law, those who occupy a home, the Okupas, have more rights than the neighbors themselves who suffer the consequences or, in some cases, the owners themselves. Look, I'm going to explain a situation I know perfectly well from my city, Badalona. Badalona is a city where there are a number of neighborhoods, the district of Llefià, the Health, Sant Crist, Sant Roc, Artigues..., where in certain areas there is this problem of housing occupancy. And I can assure you that there is no worse feeling, that there is no worse circumstance than being living on a humble floor, in a house and seeing how you are literally bitter because you can't live under minimum conditions, because there are some people who have occupied a house with the consent of the Administration, with the consent of the turn council, and those people are dedicated to creating problems of coexistence, problems of incivism or problems of crime. Those people who suffer these consequences are people who feel absolutely helpless on the part of the Administration; they understand that politicians are not defending them. I invite any of you who have an interest in coming to visit some areas of my city and you will see that reality. And they will be able to reflect on how some goodist discourses only provoke those mafias who occupy floors to subcontract them, and end up generating a problem of coexistence with the neighbors, to continue to act to their wide. When I was mayor of Badalona I installed more than two hundred and fifty steel plates on floors that were at risk of being occupied. I put in place a protocol to avoid such occupations. And that was done with determination, with will and with clear ideas and not with a behavior more like those who bet on goodism rather than unsolved problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.144.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of the deputy, Mr Joan Josep Nuet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.145.0	Thank you, President. The City Parliamentary Group is proposing to us today this young man, who is a young man of these to whom we are accustomed, who sweeps different things; barrage, honourable Members, naps and cols. And you already know that these barriers, sometimes, don't end well. It speaks, for example, of security policies, it is true, in some of its points in reasonable terms and to which we will vote in favour; but, unfortunately, in other points, it also speaks of immigration policies, housing policies and social policies. And I have to tell you that you have such a deeply conservative look, this look, which worries us. And that's why at these points, no matter what, we can give you support. With motions like this we understand why Mr Valls is Ciutadans' new candidate for mayor of Barcelona. Mr. Valls, who wants to take you to Catalonia [[applause]] The policies which have failed France and which want to have a second opportunity in its political career after it has had to leave the country almost by car. Yes, Mr Valls, who wants to bring here, with Ciutadans's ara segell, those policies of the « kick to the door, those policies of the hard police and those of the politicians, lords and lords of the deputies, of institutional racism. That's one thing he does for. So, obviously, on these issues, we disagree. I'd love for the lords and lords of Ciutadans to abandon this bad race that they're keeping with Vox's people and the people of the People's Party, because I can assure them that this race doesn't look good; a race to see that makes the speech more radical, more straight and more conservative. So, no, this race won't bring them good things, to Ciutadans. Do you know why? Because many of Catalonia's workers and workers, who have voted for them, these working people, these humble people, these people of the popular classes, believe, like us, that security policies must be at the service of those who have less, they must be at the service of those who are weaker. They must not be in the service, nor much less, of the lobbyists, the bankers and the people who call Catalonia vulnerable families. This is not the right one, this is not a correct policy of security. So, obviously, in points c, d, b and we will vote against it. Why? Because, look, I don't know if they know that the latest report on the occupation of empty habitat in Catalonia says things as important as these: 82_percent of the floors occupied in Catalonia are property of great affections. [[applause]] , enterprises, financial entities and investment funds– 82_per_cent. In concrete terms, 70_per_cent belong to banks and the occupants, in a 70_per_cent, are families, half of them with small children. The reason for the occupation is, in 75_percent of the cases, the lack of resources. And, besides, 60_percent of the people who occupy a dwelling have asked for a social piss. Yeah, children's and children's, great people's. What do you want to bring, to Mr Valls, that I give the "kick to the door of these people who can't afford an lloguer and who can't buy a piss? You decide. Following the people's party, Ciutadans – following the people's party – and not the party of the financial entities and the funds of reversal, which these do not vote and vote the PP and Vox. They don't want to be like PP and Vox. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.146.0	Thank you, Mr Nuet. Now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mrs. Montserrat Fornells' turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.147.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, counselor, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. With regard to this debate on the motion for a resolution by Ciutadans, from our group we would like to make it clear that the Squadron Mosses have as their objective to combat organised crime in all spheres and that this is why resources and efforts are being made to deal with it. By means of planned studies and with objective criteria, it determines the number of effects that are needed in each area. With the new promotions of Mossos d'Esquadra, which are necessary and planned to be incorporated in the summer of 2019, they can be more effective in places that are needed and work to combat situations and actions that are prioritized. All fight against organized crime and any crime will last with coordination between Squad Mosso and local police, and establish its strategies and actions in each of the local security juntas that are celebrated, so as to address the need for security and circumstances in each municipality. The Generalitat, through the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia, has had to end in the last few years actions to reduce the number of public housing units that are unemployed. Thanks to the implementation of a shoal plan that was completed, it went from a unemployment of 23_per_cent in 2011 to a current 7.85_per_cent. It is clear that it is necessary to work to provide the maximum possible number of social housing and to promote the public housing stock, in order to help the most vulnerable and unscathed people. They are fundamental rights that any government should promote. Since the government, through the Sub-Directorate General of Drugs, for years has worked and is working to develop prevention and intervention plans to address drug use and the problems that may arise. Transversal consensus and work of different departments, administrations and entities are key to addressing this issue. It may continue to work and struggle at all times, and devote whatever efforts and resources are needed to it. It's about fighting the poor and social exclusion that fosters drug addiction. Prevention and awareness are key, and we need to focus actions on a long-term basis. It must continue to work to reduce the entire submerged economy, which is detrimental to the economic activity that complements its fiscal and normative debts. Therefore, it is necessary to offer socio-occupational outputs to those vulnerable people who devote themselves to it because they have no more alternatives. You, lords of Ciutadans, want to criminalize some people who are mostly vulnerable and have no other way of earning a living, some with more than two years living here and no residence permits for the restrictions of the Foreign Law. Therefore, also through the Government of Spain it could help facilitate permits to these people and that they can access the world of work and a habitation. That's why they're calling for job placement plans, to give alternatives to these vulnerable people and tackle complex issues, such as the top manta. Do you, Lords of Ciutadans, really believe that with a 20_percent submerged economy the hardest is the problem of keeping? And the tax fraud? And those who don't charge or don't pay VAT? And the king's commissions? And the exclusion of taxes from some companies or the Sicavs? There's a lot of work to be done to fight against illegal practices, and it means that, folded, all parliamentary groups are working on it. But you always have the focus to which you are most socially vulnerable. Obviously, questions that are spoken in this young man are questions that can be addressed. We cannot hide that they are existing realities, but, as they are planted in this young man, it is not the best way to face them. In this young man, the vulnerable collectivities are magnificent and the poor are criminalized. It's not a security issue, it's just that you're afraid that there's more going on and that you can face people in a more social environment. If they think we can dignify collections and solve problems with more police and harder, they're wrong. What we'd do is move the problem from one place to another. In the same way, lords of Ciutadans, that the independenceists will not disappear, we will not disappear because of the police, nor will they make them keep. They call for political solutions that help to make worthy of the wishes of people living in Catalonia; in this case, with social policies. It can be tackled from a socio-laboral, cross-sectional point of view, with plans of coc and resources necessary to do so in a cross-sectional way. This is the only way we can achieve the dignity of all people and help the collectivities of our country. For all that, our group will vote against this motion, less at the f point, which we will vote in favour of with the accepted slogan. Therefore, we shall ask for a separate vote on this point. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Deputy Marc Solsona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.149.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Buch, counselor, counselor, well, one thing... Mr. Castel, it's one thing, it's the text of the motion and another thing, it's the question and the whole defense of the text of the motion. They're sometimes two different readings, two different perceptions of what you... one thing is what you can write and then how you express it, huh? And let's just say that in the text we can understand including a good intention, in this young man, but in the expression this good intention we didn't just see. Because, in the end, we can talk about public order, we can talk about citizen security, we can talk about zero tolerance before the crime organized into illegal occupation themes, illegal activities, etcetera; or so, the theory, the concept is clear. What's going on is that when you look at the question before you did a few months ago, and also the argument of this young man, let's see one thing, what we see is the following: what's obvious is that you have a lack of knowledge of what the concept of municipal autonomy says. Basically, because what they want to do here more than once in the Ciutadans Group is that the Parliament is supplementing or doing functions that they can't do because they're not in Catalonia's assemblies. Actually, I suppose they answer that. We are in a stage, I suppose, of pre-municipality – we have just seen an esquetx of the Popular Party Group, an esquetx already of the municipalities of Badalona –, and we see that in different motions you, parliamentaryly, are also making, so, this, a municipal speech through parliamentary motions. It's the one that denotes this young man. Basically, because four of the seven points of this young man are local world issues, municipal issues. In the municipalities of Catalonia, in the municipalities of Catalonia, in the municipalities of Catalonia, in the municipalities of Catalonia, in the municipalities of Catalonia, in the municipalities of And, besides, they say they have to keep an eye on their civilian orders. Or, the Parliament of Catalonia must monitor the assemblies that complete the civic ordinances. I mean, we're gonna watch a little bit of this, huh? [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] Then, the one who... including in one of the points says that the Parliament of Catalonia must also be able to fix what is to be talked about and not, in a priority way, in the local security juntas, giving, of course, subtly that at present it is not about the fears that worry you that... and that they denounce, therefore, this leaven or, as I said before, also this point of desire. Later on, speaking of which, we talked about the fact that they don't accept exams because they're not concrete enough and they're a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a "go, go, go." In the end, what we are saying is..., we have the same verbs as you: « to increase, « to act, « to prioritize, « to protect, « to act, « to increase..., to identify. In point 4 of his young man there is a theme that refers to the occupation of the public housing park. And this does not indicate a concern, which is clear that they have it, but it does indicate that there is also a lack of knowledge of the law that was approved here in the Parliament of Catalonia, on 4/2016, where its final disposition fourth, in point 4, says the following: "If the resolutions on public park award issues cannot be executed because the housing is illegally occupied, the Administration or the competent assembly may use the mechanisms of forced execution of the acts administered, in order to protect the right of persons in a situation of vulnerability and residential exclusion. The Parliament of Catalonia, with the Law 4/2016, incorporated for the first time the concept of occupation without title enabling here, in a law approved for everyone, therefore, to guarantee the basic protection of the public park. Therefore, let's say this point is more than solved with the law that was approved here. In the occupation it is not only necessary to act persecuting, that I have my doubts. The occupation is managed – it is managed. The problem is trying to solve, it doesn't just have to move. And what we have to do is really face it, and in fact there are different municipalities in Catalonia that have competence, in which they logically make protocols of first instance to try, through mediation and not by more police, to attack the different realities of the occupation. Because not all occupation is subject to mafias: there are occupations for need, there are occupations also of ideological concept... There is a lot of typology, and we cannot criminalize with these motions, many times, the victim, victims also of deception, because what we are saying here is not just chasing mafias: we are saying that, those who have been deceived by a mafia, outside, denunciated, because they occupy a public park. We're not doing well with the concept. Therefore, it is also a model theme, a model that wants to pursue through more police and another model that is more involving citizen co-responsibility. We are those who want to talk about security and citizenship, and we are not those who just want to convey a sense of insecurity and insecurity in this country. On the issue of landowners' communities, which is also an issue that affects the local world, many times in the most vulnerable places the problem is to be able to form landowners' communities, and that means that direct dialogue to deal with problems cannot attack it through the usual channels. Therefore, we will act as the Republican Group, vote against the motion and vote in favour of the point f. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix her position, she has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the lady Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.151.0	Okay. We intervene last because we have not submitted papers and because we will not vote for points, because we will vote strongly against this motion for a resolution. Under the pretext of citizenship and coexistence, this motion for a resolution presented by Ciutadans sweeps various themes and seeks to equate organized crime and occupation. Why? Why do they intend to do this, this proposal? So they claim to do this to criminalize the movement occupies, a movement with a high transformative potential, a movement that fights against urban speculation, tourism and real estate, and a movement that every day brings us valuable experiences of venerable relationship, self-management and assembly. In short, the proposal does not differentiate between the movement occupied and the occupations that this movement protagonists and that pursues the coverage of the right to housing and the occupations that protagonist certain groups organized with the aim of speculating and achieving an economic benefit playing with the misery of the people. A misery provoked by the saloon hosts, to which this motion for a resolution in no time makes reference: bankers, speculators and corrupt politicians. This proposal does not have a cross-sectional view, this proposal stigmatizes. It is not possible to analyse the causes of the increase in occupations. Do they really think that by encouraging the architecture of the poor and the stigmatization of the poor and the inequalities will come to a solution? This proposal makes it obvious that administrations cannot respond to the coverage of a right as essential as the right to housing. The data, as Mr. Nuet said, speak for themselves. The CUP, Mr. Castel, cannot approve this proposal, because, contrary to you, we understand security from a framework based on human rights and freedoms, and the models that you defend, punitive and repressive security models, are contrary to human rights and freedoms. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.152.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, to pronounce on the exams, has the new word the Lord Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.153.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, first of all, thank all the parliamentary groups that have worked together on this young man, and that with many groups we have not been able to hear each other. Mr. Castillo, the area of competition, today I don't have time, but when I want to make a monogram of the skills that the police autonomous also has in citizen security. Mr. Nuet, you kept me writing and made me the decade of your party's permissiveness and the one you represent. I won't go in there – I won't go in there – I don't want to go into a speech that won't bring us any solution. We want to talk today about people, and those people who are the hardest to get through, the most vulnerable, the working class. In these barrels we have humble people, working class that the Administration and this institution... And, yes, I know that the annoyance that I've questioned..., power the most responsible is who is before a councillor, but the humble people, our great people and the women... we know the violence that is in these barrels. As I said, working class, humble people, great people and the realm of the woman, that here we have sexual exploitation, aggressions on a continuous basis... Mr Nuet, in the debate of coexistence, you have asked for security in Citat Vella and Barcelona, and it seems that when other groups bring it you do not want to enter it. They'll leave it here. To thank the People's Party for the thought, which we understand has enriched..., with this leap. And also, in the same way, Juntes for Cat and Esquerra Republicana with the input, introducing something that was fundamental, yes: that there is control of drug addiction. Say this, more willing, more work... Counselor, please, he'll have us in the canto; work, but work really, you don't pass the days and you don't do that for years. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.154.0	We called for a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.155.0	Yes, President, for a separate vote: for one band, letters b and c, which can go together, and for the other, the d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.156.0	Yeah... b i c?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.157.0	That they can go together, they can vote together, and the d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.158.0	Okay. Any other petitions, in this sense? [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.159.0	Yeah, we're asking for a separate vote on point f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.160.0	All right. [[Montserrat Fornells and Sole and Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez are asking to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Fornells and Mrs. Alamany. Is that it? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Alamany?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.161.0	Yes, the point a, f and g, separately; it's to say that block b, e, could go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.162.0	Go back to being the same as before. Therefore, the proposals, again, re-vote separately all points and we will end up before. Let's start the vote on the point. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] At this point of this young man – be quiet, please! – There was a tie at 65 votes, so they should vote again. The vote begins again. It's back to producing the same tie, so we're going to vote for the third time. The vote begins. As far as the third ballot is concerned, this point of the decease motion is concerned. And let's move on to point b. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 90 against and no abstentions. Let's go now and vote on point c. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 90 against and no abstentions. Let's just move on to vote on the c-bis point. The vote begins. C bis was rejected by 57 votes to 73, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the d-point. The vote begins. This was rejected by 40 votes to 73, with 17 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the point. The vote begins. The vote was rejected by 57 votes to 73, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on point f. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 126 votes to four. Let's just go ahead and vote on the g-point. The vote begins. This point was approved by 66 votes to 64, with no abstentions. There is no more opportunity to vote on this motion, and therefore we shall proceed to the presentation and vote on the motions for resolutions following the general debate on priority... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Can you continue, MPs, MPs? [[General debate on the priority of the social agenda and the recovery of coexistence (continuation)]] [[255-00001/12]] He wanted us to proceed to the presentation and vote of the motions for resolutions following the general debate on the priority of the social agenda and the recovery of coexistence. To defend the motions for resolutions tabled there is a turn of interventions for a maximum of two minutes for each parliamentary group, of five for the subgroups, starting in this case for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. I've got the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.163.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good. « Assaulted a woman who withdrew yellow ties in Barcelona. « Tension in Blanes by imposing yellow ties on a restaurant. "A demonstration of police and civilian guards harassed by radical independenceists. « The linear accelerator of the Old Hospital of Reus closes for the first time in summer. « Catalonia is even more on the health waiting lists in the last three months – as if they were okay. "The prosecution investigates the Generalitat for the crisis of foreign minors. Look, this news is just a sample of what has been going on in these months here in Catalonia while you were preventing this plenary, the plenary to regain coexistence and to prioritize social policies, from being celebrated. Do you know why? Because you don't care about all this. These are minor issues, aren't they, Mr. Torra? That is why you have parked this monographic plenary on coexistence and social policies for three months. Well, that's why and because you can't agree with each other, except, obviously, to liquidate Spain; for that yes, right? And that's why 7_million_and_half Catalans have to be here on the lookout for their internal trifles and their attempts, so in order to try to jump over the law and circumvent the judicial resolutions, and to live the horn that we lived here last week, where you failed to respect the opposition MPs, the parliamentary workers, the journalists who were waiting here to report and all the Catalans. Yes, yes, to all Catalans because you look all Catalonian. You have left in two Catalonias and are defrauding the two halves: the non-independenceists, because you despise and exclude them, and yours because you deceive them. Yeah. They promise you things that you know perfectly well that you will not be able to fulfill, but far from rectifying you continue with more wood. Look, yesterday I pointed out a phrase that Mr.Totra said, "The fracture is the daughter of silence. Well, look, yeah. She is the daughter of that silence that you have been imposing on Catalans for years who do not think like you. [[Greetings.]] Anyone... – yes, yes..., daughter of silence the fracture – anyone here dares to open his mouth. Anyone says something here because you point it at him. You guys, huh? When someone says something we like, they declare people not grateful, huh? , in the municipalities where they govern. They're harassing them. They point them out. They intimidate them. And it's also that you don't cut yourself, you do it with everyone: with the councillors, with judges, with prosecutors, with the winner of the 21st of December elections, with the head of state. Do you know that when you are declaring people unthankful to these people whom I have appointed you, you are also doing so to millions of Catalans who do not think like you? Are you aware of the seriousness of this? Citizens who above have to endure that you invade the space, which belongs to everyone, in contravention of judicial rulings, also in contravention of what the Ombudsman himself says, which also says in article 103.1 of the Constitution. Although, we already know that you have little attachment to legality. Show that they care about coexistence and start by ensuring that everyone's space is neutral, that it is back to everyone's. Do you think that someone has to come to your town hall to marry you and that the pictures of your wedding come out the ribbon and the banner? Really, do you see this as normal? Stop ruling for just one part. On the 11th of September, on the Day of Catalonia, when you set up your party this is only for independenceists, this party that drove millions of Catalans out, do you know what Mr. Torra told us? That if we didn't like to ride our own. But do you hear what you're saying? A party that we paid all Catalans and that, you, expelled half of Catalonia. It's having a face – it's having a face. Financier gets his parties with money in his pocket, not with all Catalans. More things: condemn violence, do not encourage it – do not encourage it – Mr Torra. Look, from you we expected little already, because, of course, we expect from this gentleman who tells us that we are beasts, that we are vipers, that we have taras in DNA. I tell you, little hope – little hope – in you, but at least try to hide a little bit at least, that you are the president of the Generalitat. Today they will be able to vote on all this. Today we bring you a proposal to condemn violence, which under no circumstances can be justified, in any case. It is also a strong condemnation against Francoism, against fascism, against nacism, against the extreme right, against ultra-nationalism. In short, against any totalitarian movement that uses coercion, threats or violence to impose its ideas. We look forward to seeing what they are voting on that proposal. Yesterday you came back here and told us proud, didn't you? , you took out the chest, that your family members were part of the separatist commands. Separatist commands that, look, are dedicated to cutting roads, they are dedicated to blocking train tracks, they are dedicated to entering the buildings of the Generalitat by force, eh? They are also dedicated to assaulting this Parliament by force, to... I don't know, to bursting demonstrations. But, you, you breast-feed all proud, yesterday. There jade us the other day: Listen, I wish you'd put the same momentum in solving the problems of Catalans, which is that we'd do a lot better. You – you – in any other country in Europe would be disabled. Not just to be president anymore, no, no..., also to do politics – also to do politics. You know, you've got a competitor on this from insulting people who think differently. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, that's right, it's Mrs. De Gispert, huh? Mrs. De Gispert that every two by three is dedicated to telling the winner of the elections here in Catalonia to leave Catalonia, to leave her land, to leave her home. And not just her, huh? , also other political leaders and millions of Catalans. A person who makes such racist, supremacist, xenophobic comments does not deserve to be called very honorable. We are not going to tolerate being humiliated, trying to humiliate millions of Catalans and those insults going unpunished. If you really – really – respect all Catalans, I say that today you will vote in favour of this proposal. If you really respect all Catalans, as you say you do, but then... then it doesn't translate into anything. Look, today they also have the opportunity to rectify, to put themselves to work on what unites us, on what affects all Catalans, huh? , independenceists and non-independenceists. Although, well, yesterday listening to what, because it seems that you are not going to do, you, nor purpose of amendment. Yesterday I didn't say them like that again. He told us that the centre of his mandate is the right to self-determination. Well, look, because of us not staying, huh? The first match in Catalonia will not stop trying, we will not stop working for what unites us because we do respect all Catalans. We do want to legislate for all of them. That's what makes us different. Start you, but no, no. You focus again on division. Why will your mandate focus on reducing health waiting lists? No, no, Those are minor issues, aren't they, Mr. Torra? Or, for example, in updating the outdated social service portfolio? Neither. Why will your mandate focus, for example, on recovering those businesses that you threw away for their instability? No, no. That's not it, either. Or, in regaining cohabitation? No – no, no, no. You said it very clearly yesterday: the centre of your mandate is the right of self-determination. Right, which, by the way, is not intended for territories like Catalonia. But you guys don't care about that. No, no... you, come on, I'll hit you with the referendum. It's like the summer song they repeat to you, they repeat to you, they put it there with a funnel. You too, when you no longer know where to go, then come, « neverendum again. And I say one thing, while you are with your ultimatums, your fights these internal ones, your « neverendums, etc., do you intend to manage something here in Catalonia of all this that I have explained to you is happening? I'm saying it because yesterday also without going any further here in the control session – which I'm not surprised they don't want to do because, don't see! – whenever we asked you about what you as a government are supposed to do and do not do, you justified yourselves and said: "It is that we are at a time of exceptionality. This is the new hit this season. They have the 'neverendum and this. « A moment of exceptionality, they say. That I then thought at home and said, "Well, look, yes. Yeah, we're in an exceptional situation. Look: the Catalan officials, the only officials from all over the state who have not yet paid the 2013 and 2014 salaries – this is exceptional, yes –; the waiting list of dependency in Catalonia, the highest of all autonomous communities – exceptional – ; Catalonia the autonomous community with more barracks and also the one that has cut the most in social spending – is exceptional, yes, yes – ; Catalonia which is where citizens pay more taxes in the IRPF's autonomous section, so that everyone understands us, is the section that you decide, not the bad Spanish state, no, no. Not 155, no. You guys. You decide that Catalans are the ones who pay the most. And those Catalans do – do – with their obligations, they don't speak of exceptionality as you do. Do not refuse your responsibilities as you do, even though they are in this situation of real exception that you provoke. Perhaps you should take an example from these citizens. Perhaps they should also take the example of the other day the Mossos d'Esquadra who applauded his comrades of the National Police before the head of Via Layetana. That's getting back together. That's shake hands again. That's sewing up society. And you didn't want it on October 1st when you confronted police forces with each other. And they're still threatening to do it again. Stop attacking public servants, stop denigrating our institutions, get a little work done. Today with this plan of coexistence and for social policies, driven by my group, we give them the opportunity to start. Why not instead of focusing your famous road map on dividing and breaking, do you not do so in social policies? Because talking about referendum divides Catalan society. She divides it, and you know it. I'm not saying it alone or my group, no, you know who else was saying it? His predecessor, Mr. Mas, but of course, was before he had to remove the stellate to cover his shame. But you know it: talk about referendum, divide. Focusing the agenda on social policies, unite. Try it. Try to see what happens; try to respect all Catalans, put the means so that we can give our hand again, condemning violence, respecting the law, explaining the truth, because they have already seen that their lies are causing much frustration. Let's work on what unites us, improving education, health, prioritizing the social agenda, because only so – only so – will we be able to close this black chapter in the history of Catalonia that you have written. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.164.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units for Progress, it is the turn of Mrs Esther Niubó's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.165.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Members, Members, very honourable President, Councillors, well, Ciutadans puts us in this Chamber to work for coexistence, to give priority to social policies, but, of course, it does so after voting against, for example, to extend the remedy of deficiency that the same Spanish Government had obtained from Brussels. They say that they want to prioritise social policies, but do they vote against having more than EUR 6 000 million for social policies, which they certainly know which autonomous community is most damaging? In Catalonia, which would lose a margin of almost €500_million to draw up its own assumptions, and vote the same – no surprise – as the People's Party. [[Greetings.]] They say, therefore, that they want to prioritize social policies, but when they have had influence, when you have had the majority in the Congress of Deputies with the People's Party, why did they have it serve, this majority? So, to paralyze social advancements, to veto them. They have paralysed thirty projects of law: the vital minimum income, the push of interprofessional wages, paralysed an ILP of better dependence system, the law bites, the recovery of universal justice... You have contributed to the blockade, you have also contributed to the blockade, because blocking social progress is the best way, the best guarantee of coexistence. In order to prioritise the social agenda, resources are needed, effectively. Redistribution, but also dialogue: dialogue between governments; social dialogue, which you do not like either, and dialogue between different political forces. But if we talk about resources, look, we won't have better social policies just closing down. Since it's not certain that the day independence comes, we can eat dessert ice cream every day. We will have better social policies if we take better advantage of the available resources, if we negotiate better negotiations on the financing system, if we change the Presuppositional Stability Act to increase social investment, if we increase the types of higher returns – not to the working class or to the middle class, to higher returns – or if we fight tax fraud. And here we can't count them as allies or you or the parties that support the government. Because, of course, if I look at the other band, what I see is a government and some political forces, which since the year 2011 have retaliated for 15,000_million euros in social policies, retaliations that have been unable to reverse over time. And look, here, the government of Pedro Sánchez, in less than a hundred days, with a much smaller majority than his, there were already decisions, had already promoted legislative reforms, for example, to reverse the detail in education or to repeal, and soon we will see, more harmful aspects of the LOMCE. And you lack political will. You here have preferred to add and collect hard things than to seek complicity and dialogue to find solutions. To talk about appeals to the Constitutional Court to Catalan laws, and we know that they are not talking to ministries, and some even have been withdrawn, such as the universalization of healthcare. But the fact is that you have resources and legislative capacity, and the Government of the Generality has not developed social laws that were fully in force, there have been no presuppositional parties like that of the energy poor, and it has not always exercised its competitions when they were exclusive, in some cases it has abandoned them. And I don't need to talk about zero-three education again. And we come from a debate of general political orientation, which has sometimes seemed to be more of a general disorientation, but where some of the government's proposals were approved, unconcrete, little specific, without any presuppositionary compromises, but they were approved; and there were also approvals of numerous opposition proposals, and in concrete terms of the parliamentary group I represent. But we are not satisfied. We need a major commitment from the government, we need to see the assumptions and that this is gathered in this proposal. And so, and now that I would like to present briefly the proposals that we have put forward, we propose that the Government of the Generality include in its own exercise the parties sufficient to compliment those resolutions approved in the debate on Tuesdays. It is very simple, we only ask that it complement with that which approves this Parliament, that it allocates the necessary resources: the financing of the schools Bressol, the exclusive competence of the Government of the Generality, which has abandoned since 2012; the return of the debt of the assemblies; an inclusive education system; the recovery of the external payments of the public workers; a plan of work to reduce the lists of wait; a juvenile return plan; the Catalan pact against gender violence; more resources against the poor children; social services of universal access. Complying with all this is not just prioritizing the social agenda, it's respecting the institution, it's working for coexistence. And he said: we are the autonomous community with the most denunciations of all Spain. This is serious. Why can't the Government of the Generality do no more, can't it put more resources in front of this drama for so many families? This is why we are putting forward concrete proposals to increase the aid to the lodger, to condition the public aid to rehabilitation at the inn available to empty habitats, to affect the cessation by large holders of empty habitats in order to allocate them to social lodger. Let us wait and hope that this proposal will be approved. But to agree on great country issues, to restore consensus today very badly, we also need to overcome the frontism, we need first dialogue between Catalans. And we don't need, we don't need the ultimate, we don't need the government to repeat past mistakes, but what we need is to give continuity to the normalization of institutional relations between the two governments, the Catalan government and the Government of Spain, for reconciliation and also for social cohesion. And that is why we understand, and demand, that the Generality actively participate in both the bilateral mechanisms and the multilateral mechanisms that exist, because the Government cannot resign from its responsibilities insofar as it deals with questions that affect interests..., or questions that affect us as citizens and citizens of Catalonia. We also need to regain the commitment of all political forces and the Government of the Generality in the compliment of legality. We respect the mechanisms and majorities needed to reform the law as the best guarantee of democracy and respect for rights and freedoms. We will never make the mistakes of the 6th and 7th of September again. And we also demand neutral institutions in the service of everyone, that they are not expelled. And that's why the government has to fight to maintain this neutrality in the field of public service, to guarantee objectivity, impartiality in the provision of public service. And this must also stop the image of these buildings where public services are provided or are their public institutions. And, look, this is perfectly compatible, just missing, with the full exercise of freedom of expression. And at this point, I would like to put up with a moment to talk about the school, and I would like to be very clear. We reject any type of school policy instrumentation. We put together political forces to avoid endangering the coexistence of the educational centers. That's enough. We hope that all groups will vote for it. And let me be clear: we give a full support to the pedagogical model for which the student is not segregated for linguistic reasons in the classrooms, which guarantees the learning and knowledge of the two official languages in Catalonia, and from the Aran to the Aran. And we would, in addition, progressively add to it the knowledge of a third language, preferably English. Therefore, we guarantee the right to education with respect to everyone and with independence from their ideas, without discrimination, and reject the appointment of no one, students or teachers. And, therefore, I want to insist here: we have an educational policy, we do not have an education policy. I have only a short time left, but I will try to position myself, in great trets, on proposals from the rest of the groups. We will vote in favour of proposals that have been made to prioritise the social agenda, equal opportunities, political dialogue as a form of solution and a search for broad consensus, protection of freedom of expression, to ensure respect for institutions, legality, coexistence and re-establishment of any expression of violence, and also to guarantee the stability and security that we need in order not to lose opportunities with the country. We also obviously share the concern and compromise with the fight against fascism, the rise of the extreme right, male, racist. We have to be all, we have to be one against fascism. Even so, if we vote for the Republican Left's motion for a resolution against the survival of the franchise and the rise of the extreme right, we will abstain in Catalonia in Comú Pode, not because we do not share a good part of its plans, but because it seems to us that in its writing it is an excessive interference to the communication media, which we seem to have no more to talk about. To the PP, tell him that we are surprised to ask for a climate of concord at the same time that constantly urges to illegalize parties, to return to 155 without there being any violation of legality or to a re-centralisation of the autonomous State. We understand that this is not the path. And for what he does to groups that support the government, they continue to offer us toasts to the sun, empty words, generic proposals that have no concrete, no commitments, no timetables, no financial commitments; let us hope, as I said, to see the proper assumptions. That, yes, we are surprised that, after that, when they ask the Spanish government to implement them, they are hyper-demanding. One example is that we have a dependency financing system similar to all autonomous communities, but some of them have managed to reduce the waiting lists. It's not the case with Catalonia. We're leaders waiting for dependency. Therefore, ask what they believe in the Government of Spain, but also put the batteries here. The problem we have is not the sole responsibility of an administration. For what it does to the CUP, we will vote in favour of the proposal against bank abuse, for the distribution of wealth and zero corruption. And, in short, they will find us at the expense of the dialogue for coexistence, against proposals that would only help to break the already evil consensus for political division and frontism, which we reject. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs. Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.167.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs..., well, we were able to observe in this plenary that Citizens have returned to this chamber, for, with empty hands, with nothing to offer, without any proposal for dialogue, without proposal for coexistence or for understanding in Catalonia. They don't want to end the blockade that Catalonia is suffering. And, from what we see, this is the dynamic that you intend to adopt, so for the whole legislature: continue to reflect your frustrations and impotences through the show. And you have a problem, because you don't realize that people are starting to be tired of being unable to see that Catalonia is diverse, that Catalonia is plural, in Catalonia there is a society that goes beyond plebiscite fractures. Therefore, Members of Parliament understand that it is shameful that the public spokespersons, both from one bloc and another, should seek confrontation, beyond the desire of the majority of Catalans to live together. We need to live with each other and work together for and for Catalonia. So please stop aggravating the conflict, stop your electoral positions and do no more harm to Catalonia, because that is what you are doing: damage, much harm to Catalan citizens. It is curious that we have come to this plenary because Citizens wanted to talk about coexistence and the prioritization of the social agenda. By cohabitation, they made their bet clear when their spokesman preferred that the image of the week should be watching it wave a flag of Spain, without even paying attention that this flag is already present in this Plenary, we have it here behind. And when it comes to presenting social policies to solve the problems of Catalans and Catalans, it seems that they don't even think of what flag to wave. They are unable to shake the flag of the right to housing, the right to a decent pension or the right to decent work. My colleague Susana told you yesterday, and we told you again today: Ladies and Gentlemen of Citizens, you have no use for Catalan citizenship. They are not able to form government, they are not able to build broad consensus, they are not able to build bridges and they are not able to provide solutions to citizens' problems. You have come to this plenary of coexistence and social policy to deepen the confrontation. And no, we're not going to get into your game, we're not going to give you support to increase the conflict. That is why we are voting today on some of the proposals that you have tabled. For example, we will vote 'no to your proposal No 9 because it mixes the social issue with the national one, and because, moreover, the first point of this proposal has already been tabled by our group two days ago and obtained a majority in this House. However, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you must know that in order to carry out social policies we need budgets to cover them. Budgets like those that could have Spain in 2019: the most social budgets in the history of democracy, thanks to the agreement of Uni Podemos, En Comú Podemos and Marea with the Government of Spain. And with those we will be able to get to work to pinch the rental bubble; rise of the minimum wage of 22,3_per_cent, the biggest rise in history; increase of the budget of the housing plan; increase of scholarships and drop of university fees; equal paternity permits; increase of aid to dependency; increase of minimum and non-contributory pensions, and budgets that will amount to 2,200_millions_of_euro more for Catalonia, so that we stop leading the podium of shames on issues such as waiting lists to dependency, university fees and rental prices. An agreement that opens a stage of transition to change, which leaves behind the lost decade of the PP and its partners, and starts serving the citizenry. Faced with this, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, what do you intend to do? Will they vote against Catalonia receiving 2,200_million more? Will they vote against the rise in the minimum wage? Will they vote against the rise in pensions? You would be able to defend the same and the opposite in this Parliament and in Congress, because you have no more program than confrontation and opportunism. And in reference to the lords of the Government, we could have come to this chamber today and put forward a resolution in which we call for the reprobation of King Philip VI's speech, and at the same time have added our pact of clarity. However, Mr Batet – who does not listen to me –, [[relays]] Unlike you, we come with proposals for dialogue and understanding, honestly, without traps and without tricks. Because, you know what? We and we have a commitment to the people of Catalonia; not only those who voted for us last December, but also those who did not. Because we have come to these institutions to make real policies, to propose solutions to the problems of Catalans and Catalans. That is why today all the proposals for social policy will have our support except for those that are insufficient, because we believe that, for example, in your resolution..., your motion for a resolution No 1 will vote against it because poverty reduction is short. We are not going to give them a blank cheque by voting on a proposal that makes nothing concrete. We demand more concrete action when we talk about budgetary measures, and an explicit commitment to reverse cuts and face ambitious fiscal reform and, therefore, in the budget debate will not be worth generic proposals, we will demand facts. And it also happens that a government cannot come to bring us a proposition about women and gender perspective that, in addition to being simplistic, is demagogue. Because, as you know, there is already a law in Catalonia that you should have deployed and had a budgetary base. That's what you have to do, commit to unfolding the laws that are there. So, unlike other groups, we have come to this plenary with the task well done. We have come to demand from this Parliament the reprobation of Felipe VI and the monarchy, social budgets that guarantee the public services of Catalans and Catalans, the defense of municipalism and the fight against the extreme right. All of them with the honesty of being able to reach broad agreements. We need this Parliament to shield Catalonia against the proliferation of fascist and racist ultra-right forces in Europe, which is already beginning to germinate. That is why it is necessary for this Parliament to be the engine of democratic and equality values, and we hope that, despite the differences, we can build consensus that will strengthen Catalonia and protect it from the rise of fascism. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.168.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the Lady Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.169.0	Okay. Mrs Roldán, Mr Carrizosa... the only social fracture is said to be inequality, poverty and social exclusion, and the question of foundations here is precisely the model of society we want to build. And the reality is that we lead another time the flow of denunciations. I will not list all the anti-social measures that you have collected, because they have already done so during these days all the deputies of this chamber. Because you, who stand as the real alternative to separatism, have no problem when it comes to allying with the PDECAT to allow express denunciations. The reality is that you know perfectly well what is the transformative potential of the popular movement in defense of the right to self-determination, and they have to lose their privileges, they have to be the people who decide which social, economic, political and cultural relations to govern us. And that's why we're resubmitting a proposal today, because the ILPs can debate in an automatic way, just like they did last year's legislature. Why don't I go back to the parliamentary groups preventing the debates in this chamber, as happened with the ILP that introduced the educational community. You talk about living together, but you enjoy playing with the poor and the misery of the people, and with the strategy of tracing the discourse of poverty and economic destabilization, when you know perfectly well that the companies did not run away, they made them run away with Bourbon tricks and petitions of being to order the escape. The only organized, planned and continued political violence is said to be repression, and it is contradictory, Mr Carrizosa, to speak of democratic coexistence and to endorse the authoritarian repression – three summary and Kafkian judges – and to protect a reason of state that still runs over me. They blow up the crowd and they know what they're doing next? The PSOE « medals Enric Millo ; ascends to general who commanded the rescue operation of '1 October, volunteers, certainly, in the summer of the 23rd of February, and decorates the commissioner Trapote. Do you know what this generates, this climate of impunity and official violence and persecution? So, if they talk about coexistence and empathy, they do a little exercise to hear at least how 80 percent of the Catalan people feel about a referendum and about the right to decide. You generate a speech of aggression and hostility, and you do not respect all democratic options. Are they aware of what they don't accept? So, you, Mr. Roldán, do not want to accept that the 80_percent of Catalan society is against business, because that, Mr. Carrizosa, is what they want to express the deep loops that bother them so much. No more or less. You don't want a neutral public space, you want to neutralize the public space, which is very different, and a classic of all comes authoritatively. They don't like what they see, but what they see is what's there. And they won't change it. They won't change it with speeches about getting us the extreme right over in the name of state nationalism. One hundred and forty more attacks between October and December 2017, and do we still have to endure Jusapol's sadism that intended to celebrate all the shots we received? And, mirin, we condemn the words of Nuria of Gispert; of course we condemn them. But we will not play them to approve a motion for a resolution that forbids declaring people unthankful to those who oppress us. Look, you're still banalizing the violence. To you it seems that the « to them, that the « Puigdemont to prison are a flood to coexistence? Any criminal instructions that urge arrest against political opponents and clearly instigate rape and persecution? Your cynicism is mediocre; your hypocrisy is almost criminal. This banalization of repressive violence, of aggressive hostility and of inquisitorial persecution, places them in full in the land of inhumanity, in the land of mediocrity, in the land of roinda. And no, they won't win or convince, nor by, nor by, nor by, nor by persecution. Social fracture, that of the poor. Violence? The one about state terrorism. Supremacism and Identitarianism? Which encourages your ultranationalist and reactionary project, and what you represent. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.170.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.171.0	Thank you very much, President. We find a common denominator in the proposals for the resolution of almost all political formations in certain social policies which refer us to three points: firstly, the financing of these proposals, of these policies; secondly, the competitive conflicts in the sphere of the Constitutional Court, which is how it is legislated around these policies; and finally, a reflection on how we each approach the most needy sectors of our society, i.e., in terms of the CUP, "the popular classes, which will please me to reflect around these. The financing. You have said or spoken of "of course, "unbearable, a catastrophic language... Well, the current funding model is a model that agreed the tripartite in 2009, which in its presentation was said to have been 25 years old and was said to be a success. He held the gathering of socialists, of Initiative for Catalonia, of Esquerra Republicana, of Unió [[the speaker addresses the President of the Generality]] , where you were campaigning at that time– it is true that six months later he left for Regrouping, for which I could prove in his biography– but Democratic Union [[Funnel veils]] – Well, maybe it's not like that, it's what I could read – it was picking up..., it had an internal crisis with Democratic Convergence, which finally decided not to pick up that model. The pressure of those days I said was that it was more quickly a tactical movement of Artur but because I did not want to gather or strengthen the position of Mr. Montilla. Why do I explain this story? Because business sectors, trade unions, communication media propers to nationalism greeted that model of financing as positive, with nuances, and criticized Artur Mas. Clearly, speaking of "of course," "unbearable grief... Mr. Torra, as we can argue with rationality, which you ask very often, when you raise the debate in terms of such grollers and dullness? If he wants to take the driver down and play fast and short, we do, but if he wants to kick the ball, that's what he's doing so far. Competitive conflicts. Mirin, the Government of Catalonia has gone more often to the Constitutional Court than the Government of Spain for competitive conflicts, I, of course, has more often rejected the reason on the part of the Constitutional Court than the Government of Spain, and that with the help of the hand, and you know it perfectly. Now, if the Government of Spain does that, it's against the poor, and if the Government of Catalonia does that, it's fine. But it is that, moreover, it is to reduce the argument to absurd, because you, when they plant it in these terms, say that practically their laws have tumaturgical, miraculous effects. That is to say, the moment you plant a law of poor energy, the poor end up in Catalonia. No, no, The debate is much more complex, it's much more nuanced. Again, I repeat the same argument: how do you want to ask a serious debate if you raise questions with such rough arguments and with so much lack of nuance? And finally, the question of the popular classes, making use of the terminology of the CUP. Mirin, one of the most fun shows of all this separatist process is to see convergent millionaires – with all the esteem, I don't know, I congratulate who it is –, using the language of the CUP to make himself nice and see if he queues. But do you know where you see the popular classes in Catalonia? Have you taken the income data? Have you taken the data set? So, yes, look at the barrel that you yourself define as "chassers, " colonists, " quinquis, and the lady nuria of Gispert says you must return home. Curious way to defend the popular classes, insulting them. But it's the same inconsistency that the CUP poses. Because you have all the right of the world to say that you defend the popular classes. Now, speaking in his name, I'm not so clear. With your hand in mind, have you considered the recovery you have in Catalonia's most needed barrels? Even we, uh, we, uh, back in the election, which was a disaster, triple them in your vote. Yeah. And in the rich barrels, curiously, it's you who triplicate us. Result? Empat a four, with a minimum advantage for you. Why? Because you vote for the rich barrels, specifically the sons of the rich, which is a very important morning – the sons of the rich. Therefore, the final conclusion is that the separatist process... [[applause]] The separatist process is not a process directed at the popular classes, but insults them because in the background it is classist, which are two very different things. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.172.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mrs Marta Vilalta's turn. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.173.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to everyone, we are finalizing a debate that starts from a basic error, and it is that here there is no confrontation, there is no fracture, and less for the reasons that you say, Lords of Citizens, and that you have defended in this House, and that you have repeatedly repeated every day. You know why they do it, it's all right. Let us be honest: you live from this, you come to try to fracture so that you can say that there is a fracture, and, therefore, you can keep saying that there is a fracture. They live from the conflict, and therefore they want this conflict to be real, but we will not play their game. It is more, the mouth is filled with neutrality, but they do not want neutrality so much; what they want is silence, silence opinions that do not please them, change the daily landscape at the cost of being monocolored. Mrs. Roldán, how can you say that we are the ones who impose silence? When we are defending that everyone can vote, that everyone can decide, we are in favour of everyone being able to speak and decide through the ballot box and through democracy. It's you who want to shut us up and those who want to silence us. Anyway, by the way, by the way, we've got them down. In fact, listening to the speech the other day, and seeing the motions for resolutions that you have made and the rest of the parliamentary groups, what we can say is that it turned against this debate. And if we have to talk about factors that can affect cohesion, the social cohesion that we want to work with, then we talk about it; but do you know what affects coexistence? It affects the coexistence of repression and police charges and violence in front of all the people who peacefully wanted to vote on October 1st. It affects the unjust imprisonment against the President of Parliament, Carme Forcadell, with whom most of you shared the last legislature and should shame them. It also affects this coexistence with the indecency of the Jordis for leading the most civic and peaceful mobilizations; and also the unjust situation of arrest and exile of the rest of the companies. What affects is a situation of exceptionality, repression and persecution against activists, tweeters, teachers, pallassos, journalists, mayors and mayors. Do you know what else affects living together? Social inequalities, and there's been a lot of talk today. And that's right, that's right. The situation I need to combat is that of the risk of poverty and social exclusion. That's why we want and work for inclusion, for equality, for equity. We work for equal opportunities for everyone, regardless of name, origin, socioeconomic or economic context. And that is why this is a priority, which we want to work on from our Group, from this Parliament and also from the Government. And do you know what else affects living together? There are still more factors: those threats that take shape around us in the form of the boom of the extreme right and the fascism. This is indeed a threat to coexistence and social cohesion in our country. So are we talking about what it affects, what we want to improve, what we want to overcome, what we want to transform? Because we, when we speak and understand coexistence, speak of cohesion, and this is achieved, as I said, with equal opportunity, with equal rights for everyone, with a powerful social agenda and with policies of progress that guarantee us this social justice. And precisely that, too, so that we can guarantee this social justice and this equal opportunity, is why we want the Catalan Republic, to have all the tools to guarantee this country for everyone, where we can have equal opportunities. I already know that they have not understood it yet, but we will repeat it again: this does not go with flags; this goes from a country with all the rights, with all the freedoms, with full democracy and with policies, and to deploy the policies that the people of the country need about the republican values of equality, freedom and fraternity. In fact, the defense of this country project that we want, that we defend and that we work to make it real, of the Catalan Republic, does not generate division, generates debate. And, as in all advanced democracies, it is, you know, because it is a symptom of a plural society, which is like we want it: that it is plural, that everyone is able to express freely, plural and cohesively, well alive and not silent. In any case, this debate has been important so that we can make things clear and continue to move forward with concrete resolution proposals that we will continue to vote on. As I said, for the Republican Group, for the Republican Left, the dangers that can affect cohesion, the rights and opportunities are these social inequalities. And that is why we have presented a battery of motions for resolutions that are inciting, clearly defining that Parliament is committed to promoting equal opportunities for all people, regardless of their gender, sexual orientation, language, origin, socio-economic and socio-cultural context, or any other social condition. A proposal that was then accompanied by all those other motions for resolutions that we have joined together with Junts' partners for Catalonia to deploy a follow-up of measures that seek to shield and strengthen this cohesion and to combat inequalities and discrimination. Proposals in the field of education, which is the basic and fundamental pillar of our society, through measures such as: the plan of free school rape centres, the inclusive education decree, enhancing educational plans around 2.0 comprehensive and/or measures against any type of segregation among other proposals. But we do not remain either in the teaching, or only in the teaching, compulsory; also the teaching and higher training, the one that guarantees us even more opportunities; more training, more opportunities. Therefore, we must guarantee and continue to work to ensure access to higher education, both at university level, with the necessary scholarships, with the necessary social fees, with the necessary salaries, and also with all the work in the field of vocational training, lifelong learning and new opportunities programmes. We have spoken and want to continue to speak of guarantee, this new right that must allow this land of dignity for all the people of our country. We have committed ourselves, we continue to commit ourselves, and we must continue to work, obviously. There are proposals that speak and address the deployment and coverage of the Law of Dependency – an environment, certainly, where the Spanish State has repeatedly starred in an incompliment, not bringing its share. We have spoken and want to speak of salvation, with the guarantee of the universality of this service, of health care, of this right for everyone; also with points of mental health, of integrated health care – social and health care too – for people with great proximity and a vision of community action, among other issues. We have spoken and want to talk about poor energy and policies that must guarantee equity and equality between women and men, addressing wage and equal policies in their conjunction, such as the fight to defend the rights of the people of the LGTBI collection, guaranteeing accessibility to everyone, the pact for interculturality, access..., and also access and learning from the Catalan language. But we also wanted to talk about territorial cohesion, because it is very important to vertebrate a balanced country with equal opportunities within the territory, because the opportunities and opportunities we have to guarantee for everyone, but also throughout the territory, are visible where it is visible. And that is why we are talking and we have proposed measures in the field of rural development, basic services, generational networking and urban improvement and environmental sustainability. And do you know what else we want to introduce? As I said to the beginning, one of the elements that for us is appropriate at the time of..., and that mass often, therefore, we also tend to forget, in areas such as culture, language or sport, that are basic points for cohesion, for this model of a vertebrate and cohesive country, that makes us gain in rights and opportunities for everyone: culture, language and also all the sport that is an area of integration, an area of promotion of health, but also to try to integrate vulnerable collectivities through an activity such as sport. All folded, with commitments to be able to cover it with assumptions with a strong social focus, that it is this tool that allows us to reduce the poverty and inequalities and that promotes the growth and sustainability of the Catalan economy through, also, a fair, fair and equitable tax system and that guarantees the redistributive function. But, as I gave them to the principle, to the guarantee of equal opportunities, we detect a threat that is very dangerous, that it is real, that you do not talk about it either. I'm talking about the peak of fexism and the extreme right. We also have several examples in the Spanish state, where we see that this extreme right-wing campaign is unpunished for the streets, as it is articulated around nine or old political formations that have not had any problem in feeding and normalizing the Faixist attitudes, already minimizing the presence of Faixists in the street, as their substantial elements of the Faixist discourse are made. And that's why we can't get through it, we can't afford it. For this reason, we have tabled a motion for a resolution which also condemns the persistence of Francoist ideology, which is still very much in force in our country, and, at the same time, which focuses on showing this growing concern for the protagonistship of the extreme right. And we call them all, everyone, because no one can stand on the sidelines, a position of firm democracy before this fascist revolution that threatens democracy, that threatens rights, that threatens freedoms, and that cannot normalize these outcast policies, authorities, masclists or racists, and much less, make them - there the game and feed them and be their accomplices. We need to make sure that we do not pass, and that we can keep this corresponding health cord in order to put in value those experiences of success in our country and to make the anti-feixist struggle a shared fight also of flag, of the defense of human rights. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I don't have time to position myself – I know hard – on the rest of the motions for resolutions, but I end up with the predisposition to find the points of agreement, especially with those groups with which we share, with more proposals, so as to advance in the defense of rights, freedoms...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.174.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.175.0	...walking to this Catalan republic that we want it to be decided between everyone, through the lives of the dialect...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.176.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.177.0	... through the firm – I end president – and through being able to always guarantee equal opportunities and a country much better for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.178.0	Finally, on this turn, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Lluís Font. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.179.0	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, if we do so with a few words which is the meaning of our political activity, I think we would say: people, preserve the welfare of the seven million citizens of Catalonia, help and collaborate on their personal and collective progress. And in this task, we don't ask anyone who speaks at home, whether he is a member of Barça or Real Madrid, whether he has devotion to the Moreneta or the Virgin of Pilar, which is his saint tomorrow. What's important is to plan what future we want for the generations that will come, for our children. Do we want to be able to make policies for this welfare? Or do we accept that others ultimately determine what we can or cannot do, at all, with our own resources? Do we want to be able to design specific and sectoral policies with full resources? That this does not mean that we need solidarity with all the regions and countries that have difficulties. That's the main issue, and that's what we're dealing with here. Therefore, we aspire to a society of independent people who, in full, can design their future. And this society, which we build every day, of independent people, is a society where you can discuss the issues, where there is no taboo, where talking about issues does not involve a division or a fracture. Earlier, when the terms are barred and the judiciary is politicized or politics is judicialized, it is when there are beginning to be complications. When it's populism, simplifies or demagogic. We think that in a society of independent and free people, able to make decisions on their own, you can talk about everything, and this is the sense and the strength of our pocket. The company Marta Vilalta, who preceded me, has already explained the sentiment of the motions for resolutions that the Government and the parliamentary groups that we support present to this chamber. I will devote the time of my intervention to glossing a little philosophy, the hope that is behind it. In the first place, I will be inspired by a book written by Professor Manuel Cruz, who, as an independent, forms part of the Socialist Group in Madrid. It is a recognized philosopher, who, in the book Taking Charge, formulates very well what seems to me to be the crucial point, playing with the words establishes antinomies, and says: "Anthem, the opposite of equality is unequal. The antonym of diversity or singularity, because, in the background, diversity is the result of many individual and collective singularities, it is homogeneity or uniformity. And he goes on to say: "You can find a point of balance between two extreme opposites, equally painful. In the first place, do not confuse equality with uniformity; or, for another band, do not consecrate, do not tacitly accept inequality with the pretext that has diversified it. So, how do we find a point of balance that makes equal opportunities compatible, the deep sense of fairness with the recognition of the uniqueness of people and institutions? The Aristotelian way. I believe that the social policies that we present through the motions for resolutions, and which emanate from government action, claim this: a deep recognition of the singularity of each of them, because it is a wealth and not a problem – and when they say that each of them refers to people and institutions – and, at the same time, affirm, consecrate the right to equal opportunities, to equity. Catalonia has a long tradition of social initiative. When I have sometimes spoken of this term, someone questions the word tradition, and I would like to gloss it over. It is true that there is a classical mentality that attributes tradition to a triangle: family, country and religion. But following Péguy, Finkielkraut and others, they consider that, in the background, tradition is the collective successes, the shared struggles, which configures the character of a people – in the French case, the French Revolution and those who have followed it – who have consolidated some rights and obligations, some successes, some sooliments. So I believe that the social initiative in Catalonia is very linked to our tradition, and this uniqueness and distinguishes us from other countries, from other cultures, from other mentalities – for example, Ortegians – who consider that the vertebration of a country and of a society is done exclusively through the State. This permission of the plural social initiative and of the State I believe is very strong, very powerful, and allows to attend to the specificity of the territory. And this explains why we are talking about a society of welfare, where it is doing a locomotive role, occupies an obvious centrality, but it is looking for a way to create a stable collaboration framework with a follow-up of third-sector institutions: foundations, or private entities, which have this philanthropic purpose and can contribute, from the specific knowledge of reality, from their desire for social transformation, to building the common good, the shared good. I believe that this is a great heritage, that it is not simply the solution to the crisis of the welfare state, a product of growing needs. Sometimes I hear it say, "How the great people live many years..., as if this was a problem, when it is a great success collection, thanks to science, to the welfare. What we have to find are creative formulas to give response to their needs by combining the locomotive role of the State and all this social, venal, small and large group initiative, which brings their creativity, and among all build this set of social benefits. Marta Vilalta's company has already talked about talent. It seems to us that talent is vertebrate. From Estonia, it is known that it is a country where the digital theme has developed a lot, but the key is its bet for talent. Once independence was restored, they established as the backbone of the country's politics the promotion of talent. From giving educational opportunities to the school bressol, articulating a system that is to function and avoid dropping out of school, articulating an FP, an occupational continuing education, the adult schools, the university, and, after all, training for the occupation of workers, in anticipation that some of them may be unworkable. This is certainly the big deal, and that's why we in PRs have insisted a lot on this issue, because it's the big bet of the future: to structure our country, our society, from talent. And we have to say the talents, because they are multiple, they are diverse, they are these intelligences which, in common, constitute the great richness that we have. I believe that Catalonia, if any action has, precisely, is the contribution of its people. And, in this sense, we have received a great benefit, which is the arrival of many people who came from the world, especially in the decade from 2000 to 2010, more than 1_million people; entrepreneurs, those who do not conform with a poor endemic, those who want to give a future of opportunities, many of whom speak languages like Arabic, who are international. We must guarantee the social rights of all, and we must reverse what could apparently be a difficulty in a great action, which is to have more talent, multiple talent, a multilingual ability to put it in the service of well-being, development. And, in a complex world, where communication is fundamental, multiply our actions. The 1st of October of the past year was remarkable in many senses, but I would highlight two. One is the empowerment of people, of people, to face the difficulties. I think this is latent in our proposals. We intend to seize people and follow them, not only in matters of national character, but above all to make use of their independence in responding to their difficulties and problems. Because the reptiles that we have in front of us, of the poor, of the school dropout, of the twilight, of the inequality by reason of genera, of the inequality of the collection of LGTBI, of housing, it will be possible to give an answer since to put in common this collective intelligence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-11-1702.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. Once the debate is over, we shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. Do all groups have resolution proposals, transactions? As has already been agreed to by the Bureau, they will vote in order of entry to the register. We shall therefore begin by voting, first of all, on the proposals put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Units for Progress. [[Long break.]] We shall begin voting on the motions for resolutions, as we have said. First of all, we will vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar. Firstly, the first motion for a resolution, including the correction of errors presented. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 90 votes to three, with 36 abstentions and one Member who did not vote. Let us now proceed to the vote on motion for resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 94 votes to 36, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution 3... One moment – one moment – that we have technical problems. [[Pause.]] Now, yes, you apologized. We will vote on Resolution No. 3, Number 3 of Socialists and Units for Progress. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 29 votes to 65, with 36 abstentions. Motion for a resolution No. 5 has been negotiated with proposal No. 2 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, and we will therefore vote on it at the end. We shall therefore proceed to vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 61, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. In this motion for a resolution there was a tie to 65 votes: 65 in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. We shall therefore proceed to repeat the vote. The vote begins. There has been the same agreement that before, therefore, we will proceed to vote again, and for the third time, this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. When it happens again, and for the third time, the same way to vote, this motion for a resolution lapses. Let us now vote on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution, number 9, was adopted by 126 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Unity Candidature - Crida constitute. Let's start with motion for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 73 votes to 57, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 29 votes to 4, with 97 abstentions. Let us now move on to resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution is rejected by 12 votes in favour, 21 against, 88 abstentions and 4 Members who have not voted. We now vote on resolution No. 4 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, number 4 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 118 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 118 against and no abstentions. The Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent has submitted a correction of errors that involves the proposed resolution number 6. Therefore, we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 73 votes to 57, with no abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Let's start with the first motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 26 votes to 65, with 39 abstentions. We shall now proceed to vote on resolution No. 3, since resolution No. 2 has been negotiated with proposal No. 5 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar; therefore, we will also vote on it at the end. Let us therefore vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted. [[applause]] ... was adopted by 69 votes to 57, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 73 votes in favour, against and 57 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's start with motion for resolution number one. The vote begins. There was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. We shall therefore proceed to vote again on this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. The same coat has been produced again. We shall therefore proceed to vote on this motion for a resolution for the third time. The vote begins. As the same squared to 65 has occurred, this motion for a resolution lapses. Let us now vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 61, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 73 with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 61, with 4 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 73, with 17 abstentions. Let us now vote on Motion for resolution No. 6, including the correction of errors submitted. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 73 with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 90, with no abstentions. And let us now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 65, with 65 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 9, including the two corrections of errors submitted. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 73 with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. In this motion for a resolution there was a tie of 65 votes. We shall therefore have to reproduce the vote. The vote begins. He's reproducing the impat again. Therefore, we will proceed to vote on a third occasion. The vote begins. As long as he's given back the same coat, this motion for a resolution is down. Let us now turn to the motions for resolutions submitted for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Let's start with the motion for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 73 with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. In this motion for a resolution there was a tie of 65 votes. Therefore, we will have to reproduce the votes again. The vote begins. It's kept the same tie. Therefore, we vote for the third time. The vote begins. At the foot of the empire and, therefore, that it is not the absolute majority, this motion for a resolution lapses. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 61, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 126 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 73 with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution 6, including the correction of errors. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 4, with 61 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 90 against and 37 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. Before commenting on the results of this motion for a resolution, make them guess I was wrong before, and in 90 votes against, it was 88, huh? In any case, it will be reflected in the Minutes. And, in this case, there was again a tie of 65 votes. So let us vote again on this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. The impat's happened again. We shall therefore proceed to vote for the third time. The vote begins. It reproduces the empate, it does not obtain the majority. Therefore, this motion for a resolution lapses. And let us now vote on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 90, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 73, with 17 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled jointly by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group. Let's start with the motion for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 62 votes to 65, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 65, with 65 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 60 votes to 5, with 65 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 60 votes in favour, against and 70 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 77 votes in favour, against and 53 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 109 votes to 21, with 21 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 86 votes in favour, against and 44 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution 8, including the correction of errors presented. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 105 votes to 17, with 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 61, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 11. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 66 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. And we are voting on resolution No. 12. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 61 votes to 57, with 12 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 13. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 40, with 21 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Let's start with the motion for a resolution number 14. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 90 votes in favour, against and 39 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 15. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 93 votes in favour, against and 36 abstentions. Let us now finally vote on the compromise proposals. We vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution No. 5 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units per Avançar and the proposal for resolution No. 2 of the Catalan Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem. The vote begins. This compromise proposal was rejected by 104 votes to 25, with 25 abstentions. There are no more compromise proposals. Therefore, the session rises. Thank you very much.
