ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.1.0	The session begins. Yes, Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.2.0	That's a point of order. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.3.0	One moment, please. Be quiet, please... say, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.4.0	Yes, we understand absolutely unjustified and arbitrary the decision to withdraw items 3 and 4 from the agenda. And we understand it, first of all, because we have a precedent of approval, of validation of a decree law in the Permanent Council very recently, and there was absolutely no problem. Moreover, the agenda was already in place, which obviously meant that the lawyers of the house gave their approval. The Government of Spain also appears before the General Courts, but in no case in an autonomous parliament. And, in any case, it is now surprising the legalistic fervor that entered you when, ten_minutes earlier, in the same Bureau and Board of Spokesmen, you again trampled on the Rules of Procedure and the reports of the lawyers admitting Mr Puigdemont's delegation of vote. And finally, what's the most serious of all? By continuing to maintain a strategy of tension with the Government of Spain, you are willing to blow up everything, even to put at risk the pay of thousands and thousands of Catalan officials, are willing to do everything. It's an absolutely embarrassing nihilist strategy. And we've already advanced that they're not going to get anywhere along that path. Thank you very much. [[Several Members are asking to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.5.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. I see that there are other words... in any case, the warning and I warn you that this is a matter that has been dealt with by the Board of Spokespersons, that a decision has been made. The decision was – because it was asked by a majority of this Board of Spokespersons, and also for the doubts expressed by the house's readership – that a legal report is required to be able to assess the consequences of the fact that today it has been notified that a member of the Government of the State will appear in this Parliament to defend the two decrees of the Law. I'm saying that because I see there are other words. In any case, obviously, I will now give you the word, but let me know the joint of the chamber that this is a question that has been dealt with and granted to the Board of Spokesmen that we have made immediately before this plenary. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.6.0	Yes; thank you, Mr. President. In the same vein, we understand that today you chose to delete two items from the agenda at the request of the procedural bloc and that they were two very important items. One was the recovery of the salaries of the officials of 2012; they were, the Catalan officials, the first to whom they were cut and the last to recover the ones, who are the only ones who have not yet recovered them in Catalonia. And that was by the work and grace of the previous governments...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.7.0	Mr Carrizosa, if you ask me for a point of order, it is for a point of order, not for political intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.8.0	No, I do not, therefore, question of order, following the Rules of Procedure. Today you have put regulatory and legalists into one thing: to suppress the decree law on the pay of officials. In delegating the vote to a fugitive from justice, in that they did not care to skip the Rules of the Chamber. The process is blocked. [[Widow's remorse.]] Today, officials will not have their salaries because of those who have been in a process for years maintaining Catalan politics. [[Greetings and voice of "Very good!]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.9.0	They ask them, if they please, that we should, in any case, consider matters of order and that it is not appropriate to do so now, at this time, to debate policy in relation to two points which, I insist, have been granted to fall from the agenda of today, and, therefore, not yet to make this political debate. In any case, if it's for a point of order, Mrs. Sirvent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.10.0	Yes, Ciutadans is still demagogic, he's still lying. The decrees are absolutely in force. We have a date to ratify them and validate them until April 26th. This validation could be put into question, given that Article 158.2 of the Rules is not fulfilled, which clearly specifies that if the execution decrees or promulgates a decree it must give explanations as to why this promulgation. This debate must take place with both sides and, therefore, there must be a presence of that which decrees the law. I, therefore... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, I didn't interrupt it in any case while I was in surgery. When you intervened, I didn't interrupt her.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.11.0	We must respect for those who use the word at every moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.12.0	Thank you, President. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For another band, Article 158.2 is fully in force and is not affected in any case by the 155 measures, as many articles of the Rules are affected. And, on the other hand, we consider that if this debate has been produced without preceptive intervention, as stated in the Rules, of which this decree is promulgated by the law, our rights as Members and Members of Parliament would be violated by having a debate on equal terms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.13.0	Thank you, sir. Yes, ma'am Romero?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.14.0	Thank you, President. Two considerations about this change in the order of the day. First, we believe that there are precedents on a debate or a validation of a decree without the Government: there were weeks ago, in the Permanent Chamber, the validation of a decree with the law on, also, measures of functioning, the Government was ceased; there was no government that came to present it, and, in turn, there were interventions by the parliamentary groups that led to the validation of this decree. We do not understand why in this case this is not the case, when there is an important urgency and when, moreover, the content of these decrees have been worked by officials of the Generality. And in this case we have two in the gallery: the Secretary of Economy, Mr Aragonès, and the Secretary of Public Service, Mrs Masó. In addition, there are two commitments that are being brought here today: one, which sees a resolution approved on the 20th of January 2016..., or, more still, approved for all, also for the CUP, in that resolution, which was to pay the last part of the 2012 payment in the first quarter of 2018– you must remember very well the Lord Sabrià, because we negotiated it with him as the representative of the Government. And then, because we're approving debt operations that we should, among other things, be allowed to borrow so that we can pay, for example, social entities. I don't understand where the difficulty of being able to debate this, especially when you know, the members and those responsible for the majority of Parliament, who...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.15.0	Mrs. Romero...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.16.0	...we would validate these decrees, because there was a majority to validate them with the stated vote. Therefore, what I would like to say to you is that I am putting the interests of the country before the parties, please, because, if not, we will not get out of it. And we need an early government. And if there is no government here today, it is because, among other things, the majority, therefore, has not invested a president or formed a government. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.17.0	Yes, Mrs. Alamany?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.18.0	Thank you. Well, in the first place, to emphasize that these two points of the order of the day have already been there, and, therefore, we do not understand the precipitation of making them fall from the order of the day. Basically, we believe that there are people who think, every time more, that Catalonia has made many symbolic gestures and surely not too many steps forward. And I think it's up to us to open this legislature thinking if really all the decisions we're going to take and all the steps we're going to take from now on will help move forward. I think I'm one of the most understanding people with symbolic gestures and I think sometimes they're needed, symbolic gestures. But today, they think I'm playing with the extra pay of public workers, public workers who have been waiting for them for six years, they think I think I'm rattling the absurd. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.19.0	Mr. Solsona...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.20.0	Well, good morning to everyone. Well, first of all, to all the Members' companies and companies, absolute peace of mind: with this change in the order of the day there is no risk of being paid or compromised that we have since 2016 because we can pay this 2012 payment. Simply what is said is: a date is communicated formally to the Parliament of Catalonia that the Government will not come to defend this decree, that we ask, with rigour to which the article says not suspicious for 155, that it is 158.2, that the Government must come to defend the decree, therefore, that simply the letters inform to such effect and that, therefore, this, as there is a gap of time to be able to approve and validate it, therefore, that..., what tranquility. So, with this measure, and demanding the same rigour that is always required of the Parliament of Catalonia at the time of completing the Rules, let us say this: in respect of the political rights of the Members in this chamber, and also, given that there can be no parliamentary control because 155 does not allow any parliamentary control of the Government that has made this 155, we ask that, now that there is a decree signed for the Government of 155, and that it was an agreement of the former Government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.21.0	Mr. Solsona, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.22.0	...we understand that..., quiet and that we will have time to approve it without any problem, sure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.23.0	Lord Solé...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.24.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I would ask some groups of this chamber for a little more responsibility and less demagogic. If you interpret [[strong remorse of the eyes]] ... – in letting it end, please? – if you interpret the Rules, interpret it in all its complexity. And the Rules clearly state that this decree is in force, and it is in force until the 26th. And the only thing you need to do is validate it. Therefore, a message from our parliamentary group to the public workers: they will charge the extra payment, and they will not charge because today they make this pressure, they will charge because in their moment the Government of the Generality, before the application of 155, decided with very good criteria to approve this decree. We, from our group, do not go into the background or the content of this decree. We totally agree. In which we do enter and discuss is in the effects of the application of 155: 260 people ceased, 24 organizations suppressed, 16 organizations interrupted and 108 legislative initiatives suspended. I, as you know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.25.0	Mr. Solé, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.26.0	... – and I finish – any proposal that is made in this House must be defended. And today we have none of the Spanish state to defend this point from the order of the day. [[Greetings. Xavier García Albiol asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.27.0	No, Mr. García Albiol, all the groups have intervened. If it is a matter of order, his group has already expressed its opinion; therefore, they have already manifested themselves, like the rest of the groups. We're not opening a turn now, because all the groups have gone, sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.28.0	[[The speaker starts talking without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...or the groups of the majority independenceist, it is: why today they demand all this procedure, that what is being done is to make it work that you are earning a thousand euros a month cannot recover...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.29.0	Mr. García Albiol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.30.0	... his pay? And I haven't asked the question yet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.31.0	...you have had the opportunity to speak at the Spokesman's Meeting, where this has been discussed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.32.0	And the question is the following: why are these measures that are now required, these procedures that are now required, did not require them in November, when a decree has already been passed, and did not pose any type of problem? For what reason before I didn't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.33.0	I insist, Mr. García Albiol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.34.0	...and now we're talking about the money you're gonna be working on?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.35.0	No, you were able to intervene on a panel of spokespersons, on which it was decided, by a majority and following the doubts arising from the situation that was being given and from which we had knowledge this morning, to request a legal report from the judicial services of the chamber and to postpone the debate and vote on these two points of the order of the day, which you will see, if that is the case, in a subsequent plethora. It was granted to the Board of Spokesmen, and you too have been able to intervene, like all groups. Therefore, we follow the order of the day, paying attention to this circumstance. Before following the order of the day, in any case I remind you of the voting delegations, girls in agreement with Rule 95 of the Rules, of the deputies Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva, who have delegated their vote to Mr Sergi Sabrià, spokesman for the Republican Parliamentary Group, and of the deputies Jordi Sánchez, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull and Carles Puigdemont, who have delegated their vote to Mrs Elsa Artadi, spokesman for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Report of the Permanent Assembly]] [[243-00001/12]] And now, as we say, following the order of the day established, the first point is the report of the Permanent Chamber. In accordance with Rule 75.5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Permanent Chamber of Parliament shall give account to the plenary of the Parliament of the decisions taken and of the matters dealt with in the period between legislatures. As long as the report of the Permanent Chamber is included in the file of the plenary, which has been distributed to all and each of the deputies and deputies, I pray you, therefore, that it is the same as your reading, if... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.36.0	I would ask, Mr President, to read precisely the point of the actions of the Permanent Chamber, in which it concerns the approval, the validation of the Royal Decree on the temporary incapacity of officials.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.37.0	They have the documentation... it should be more explicit. Exactly what do you want read, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.38.0	I don't have the file now... yeah, look, I have it here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.39.0	Point two, you tell me? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.40.0	Point 2 is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.41.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.42.0	Yeah. Well, that's the point, please. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.43.0	Okay. I pray to Secretary Perez if I can read point two, huh? This report.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.44.0	Okay. Yeah. "In the second session of November 15, 2017, the Permanent Council was convened, with the order of the next day. Point 2. Decree Ill 6/2017, of 24 October, on the system of improvements of the economic performance of temporary incapacity of the staff to the service of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia. It is the 203-00013/11, "Government of the Generality; debate and vote on the validation or repeal of the law decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.45.0	All right. Since it is simply informed by the plenary, that it is a point that is not to be voted on, can it give by substance the conjunction of the Report of the Permanent Chamber? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Designation of the MPs acting for the 2018 budgetary period]] [[231-00001/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the designation of the MPs for the 2018 budget period. To the Enlarged Bureau held today, and as established in Article 37.5 of the Rules, it was granted to offer to the Ple the designation of Mr Antonio Espinosa Cerrato, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans; Mr Narcis Clara Lloret, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and Mr David Rodríguez and González, of the Parliamentary Group Republic, as well as MPs interveners for the fiscal period of 2018. Is this proposal approved for approval? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Therefore, this proposal would be approved and, therefore, Members of the Speakers, Mr Antonio Espinosa, Mr Narcís Clara and Mr David Rodríguez, would be appointed. [[Proposal for a resolution on the need for Parliament's President to compliment his institutional function and on the impetus of the investment process]] [[250-00088/12]] We would therefore move to the next item on the agenda, the fifth item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the need for the President of Parliament to compliment his institutional function and on the impetus of the investiture procedure. This proposal was submitted for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Therefore, in the first place, she has the word, for a maximum time of two minutes, the Inés Arrimadas on behalf of the proposing group, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.46.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we want to talk about transparency – about transparency. Before this situation of chaos, before this situation of lawlessness, before this situation, which you have generated, of conflict we only want to ask, today, transparency. Fix yourself, what's more simple, huh? In a scene like this. We want the President of the Parliament, the person who has so far had the most responsibility for what has happened to the Parliament of Catalonia, to go down to the Faristol to make a sincere and open debate on the rest of the parliamentary forces over what happened to Catalonia in the last few months. Because it must be remembered that we have more than a hundred days since the elections. Unprecedented – Unprecedented. We are in a situation of having no government, of not having as many proposals as the President of the Parliament of candidates who have enough parliamentary support and who, moreover, can, in reality, have a viable presidency and can, therefore, have a development as President or President of the Generality. Plus, it's funny, because this petition we made three weeks ago – three weeks ago – but until now we haven't had the opportunity to celebrate the Plea we wanted. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, this ple was celebrated, and the date was set a long time ago for today, but Mr. Torrent was very hasty... – very hasty. [[Funnel veils]] Yes, Mr. Gómez del Moral – he was in a hurry – and you must remember, because he was on the Board of Spokesmen – to quote a ple for the next day. When you ask for a ple is for the next day, when we ask for it is three weeks from now. Well, does he know the worst of it? The worst of all is that we made this petition three weeks ago and today it is still in force – today it is still in force – because the President of Parliament has not given an explanation, which is now the highest authority in the issues we are talking about, nor has the situation been resolved. Therefore, we are still in the deadlock and we are still in the opacity of the President of the Parliament, who likes to make political speeches, but since the security of the Bureau of the Parliament, where no one can answer it, where the questions of the chairmen of parliamentary groups need not be answered. Actually, he's very curious. I want everyone to know that this petition, which is very basic in a situation like this – that it is: "please, President of Parliament, give explanations and give your face before the Catalans – has been tried to avoid taking to the Parliament of Catalonia, with the barbarities that we have to see here, to the Parliament, and that the President of Parliament has not had any trouble letting go. But this petition for the appearance of the Speaker of Parliament, which is endorsed in a report by the Iletrats, which they already said in their report and were already talking about this possibility, that the Parliament can explain before Parliament's plenary the circumstances relating to the candidatures, it seemed that the Speaker did not even want to speak today. But, in the end, there was no more reason than, at least, to feel this parliamentary debate, I insist, since the security of Parliament's Bureau. And, yes, it is true that it is not customary for a Speaker of Parliament to go down to the Faristol to make a debate with parliamentary groups; it is not customary, it is not normal, it should not be necessary. But... is one of the things that happened to Catalonia in these months normal? Was it necessary? Should it have been produced? No, no, And, therefore, when it is the Speaker of Parliament who is holding the Parliament, proposing candidates who cannot be Presidents of the Generality; when it is the same Speaker of the Parliament who wants to convene a ple for the next day, when his friends are asking for it, and for three weeks later, when we are asking for it; if it is the Speaker of the Parliament who opens the Parliament a day after the night, to the gods of the night, to make a speech, as if he were the President of the Generality, and, moreover, saying things like the politicians, the Presidents of the Generality, must not complete the readings and judge them to pursue... if we have all these circumstances, I think that it is more sense than the Speaker of the Generality, that the President of the General is not able to speak, by way of the President of the General Assembly, that the President of the General Assembly is not able to speak at all. Because I think a lot of Catalans and Catalans, of all political colors, are wondering: what are you doing? What are these people doing? What's going on in Parliament? What's going to happen? Why are we carrying a hundred blocked days? Now it seems... the latest news of this novel, huh? It's the letter he signed, supposedly, because sometimes we see how Mr Puigdemont seems to sign things to Parliament's Palau for a couple of days, doesn't he? But it seems, it seems, that Mr Puigdemont has sent his parliamentary group a letter to return to Chapter Sánchez. Please, Speaker of Parliament, can you go down to the cliff and make a debate about what happened in these hundred days and what do you think you're doing – what do you think you're doing – in the next few weeks? Will you return to Chapter Sánchez? Is it going to come back to a parliamentary debate by Mr Sànchez that has already had to be withdrawn because, obviously, it could not be brought to an end? I will tell you in another way: can the President of the Parliament give his face to the Catalans to explain to us what has happened in Catalonia in these months and, above all, what is going to happen? If you don't have a plan, if you don't have a strategy, say so. If you don't know what to do, explain it to the Catalans, to yours too, to the voters of the independence parties, to all of us. If..., if you do not have internal union and you do not exercise parliamentary majority, because you speak of having parliamentary majority..., well, for the time being we have not seen it – for the time being we have not seen it – even with the investiture of Mr Turull ; if you do not have it, why do you not explain it? You who fill your mouth with democracy... is there anything more basic in democracy than transparency about what's going on? What are you waiting for, Mr. Torrent? Puigdemont's call to tell him what to do now? Are you waiting, you, for Puigdemont's call and so you are again not knowing what is going to happen, what are you going to do? I remind you: the obligation of a Speaker of the Parliament is to propose candidates that can be invested because they have a majority behind them and also that they are viable as candidates for the presidency of the Generalitat. What we have seen in recent months is the use of candidatures that were already known to be unsuccessful or that were not even going to occur to increase confrontation. And that's enough confrontation, we want you to explain to us, Mr. Torrent, what will be invented now. Because, I'm sorry, Mr Torrent, as President of Parliament, is now the most responsible for everything that's going on. But do you know what's going on? That you have no strategy, no direction, no project. And that is why neither Mr Torrent will want to go down and explain, nor the independence parties will want to do a basic exercise in democracy, such as allowing the President of Parliament to explain. Because you don't want chaos to end. What would you be without chaos, without confrontation with the Government of Spain? We've seen it today, with the salaries of the officials. Do you want to leave the conflict out of what is the return of a civil servant's right to pay? Do you want to set aside the labour rights of public servants from their disputes and their conflicts with the Government of Spain? Would you please stop giving restlessness and bitterness to many Catalans? Because I want to remind you that Catalonia is the last autonomous community that remains to return the integrality of the 2012 pay. And that is not the fault of the 155, gentlemen, which was done six years ago, that other autonomous communities have returned it long ago, long before the application of 155, long before. But here, as always, you, those who cut the most; you, the first to cut and the last to return. Leave the officials out of their political conflicts with the Government of Spain and pass this decree. And bring it here, because they also know that it has a majority. They don't want 155 to end because they don't know what to do with waiting lists. They don't know what to do with the education situation in the barracks. They don't know what to do to get the companies you've run away back. They don't know what to do with the debt. Today precisely one of the decrees referred to an important issue: we are the autonomous community with the most indebtedness. We are the ones who most in many things, but many times for the bad. You don't have a project. That's why they don't even want to explain, because they don't know what to explain to them or their own. Now it turns out that now it looks like you want to go back to the Sánchez chapter. I don't know if it's a strategy from the Puigdemont list to do the work for Esquerra because he won't dare call a full Mr.Sànchez. Do you want to be honest with your own voters? Are we really asking so much, that they give their faces, that they give explanations? We have been blocking for a hundred days – a hundred days – more than a hundred days. That's enough! - That's enough! Be honest: they don't know what to do, they don't have a plan. Can we come back to reality? Can we make a collective reflection on law enforcement, a government for all Catalans? Can you accept that you have failed with your process? And finally, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.47.0	Time's up, Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.48.0	...to the rest of the parties, we already know that the independence parties are going to avoid a basic transparency exercise, because they don't know what to explain. But the rest of the parties, are they going to prevent explanations being given in a situation like this? Your voters are going to deny a serene parliamentary debate, of course, with the highest authority right now of what is happening now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.49.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.50.0	...who is the Speaker of the Parliament? Is that why they stayed? Is that what Mr De Podemos' deputies are for? Will they prevent the President of Parliament from coming to explain himself? I find it surprising, because they're denying...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.51.0	Time's up, Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.52.0	... to its voters the right to know not only what has happened in Catalonia, which is very serious, but, above all, what will happen in the coming weeks. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.53.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. It's the turn, now, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. It's Mrs. Laura's comeback.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.54.0	Good morning, Speaker of Parliament. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, today I am opening the Faristol in this plenary of Parliament as the deputy of Junts for Catalonia and I am responding to a motion for a resolution of the Citizens' Group calling on the President of Parliament to compliment his institutional function and the impetus of the investiture procedure, because they find that it undermines the normal functioning of the institutions in Catalonia and most Catalans. Then I go into the matter, however, speaking of demands and compliments and, above all, I would like to explain how normal work is, let me tell you that what is not normal is that six Members of this Parliament are incarcerated and three of them are candidates for the presidency. So I can't stop denouncing repression, and doing so is a way to resist it and fight the judicial strategy of the Spanish State and of all those who make them accomplices, to try to return to political normality. And I do this by expressing the enormous frustration and the infinite sadness that the absences of President Puigdemont, President Carme Forcadell, Vice President Junqueras, of the Councillors Turull, Rull, Forn, Romeva, of the Councillor Bassa, the company deputy Jordi Sànchez, of Jordi Cuixart, who are not here because they are deprived of liberty, as well as Puig, Comin and the Councillors Possati and Serrat, as Mrs Marta Rovira and Mrs Gabriel, who are also in exile, as a consequence of the will of the Spanish State – and now I am going back to quote the PR of Catalans – for the most part. Because for the moment they are a minority, extraordinarily painful, but minority, in relation to the name of Catalan citizens we support. But they're in jail or in exile, because they're recidivists, recidivists in coherence, because they completed what gave an election program to some of the comedians who won by an absolute majority. So if you see a lack of attention in the institutional duty of the President of Parliament, we also see, on the part of the Spanish State, a zeal and attention that go far beyond what the institutional duty would be in a state of law. In your statement of reasons you add that the performance of President Torrent in relation to the impetus of the investiture of the Presidency of the Generality should have been aimed at the presentation of a candidate who could be invested, both because of the fact that he is counting on the parliamentary support needed as well as because of the fact that he is in a position to address himself to the chamber in order to present his government programme. It's very interesting that I put it in those terms, because if we were in a context of democratic normality, there wouldn't have been any elections on 21 December, because the candidate for president turns out he was already, the president. But we all know that there were, these elections, that the candidates and the programs were presented, and so it was like the President of the Generalitat, Mr. Carles Puigdemont and Casamajó, who capped the list of Junts for Catalonia with an electoral program that was validated for the Central Electoral Board, and, then, it turns out that he got some electoral results that allowed him and continue to allow him to gather the parliamentary support needed to be invested president, as he solved this same Parliament with the PR of March 1. Therefore, President Torrent and the groups that we conform to – it is what democracy has – the republican majority of this Parliament defend the radical idea and, for which it is absolutely revolutionary to want to complete the work that we have enjoined as elected representatives of the people; to be faithful to democracy and, consequently, to be deeply obedient to what citizenship has indicated to us. You, in your motion for a resolution, use adjectives and qualifications as wrong way, "arbitrary action, "failed investiture, "viable candidacy, "functionally normal. I will be forgiven, I dedicate myself to the words, I will not do an analysis of it now, but the moral value of the conduits is not that personally I seem impromptu and inadequate, but that they do not correspond to a Parliament. Now, I confess, I find it particularly intractable and an unheard-of point, too, I recognize them, that we agree on some of the things they propose. And it is that in its point 2 of the proposal demand a public and transparent appearance, in which all the deputies democratically chosen for the citizens can participate-in it. It's that, it's exactly that that we want the Democrats: that all the deputies chosen for popular sovereignty expressed in the ballot boxes can compare in this chamber and can, from ideological discrepancy but with education, confront ideas and dialogue. [[Greetings.]] Now, at the time of demanding responsibilities, you'd better point out who you really have and who makes candidates able or unable to be invested, able or unable to be here and able to be free or in prison. Who called for elections to which he is not prepared to respect, with all the subterfuges, as we have seen? The Spanish State. Who applied unprecedented precautionary measures to the candidate who was not only the legitimate president of the country, but who was also reinforced by the ballot box? The Spanish State, counting on the complicity, to serve a kind word, of the judiciary and of all those who support the application of Article 155. But it's not just once, the Spanish State, no. He did so once, with Jordi Sánchez, violating his rights, as the United Nations Human Rights Committee has just recognized, to the emperor of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which, let us remember, was signed for the Spanish State, so that he can do no more, which would only increase his international bad reputation in the matter of compliments of resolutions. But he didn't make it a second time, also a third time, with Jordi Turull, preventing a second time from his candidacy, because he enters the tank in prison. Everything must seem very normal and very democratic, but it is not the kind of normality and democracy that some of us aspire to. And yet, in their text, they ask that the candidate be willing to be there. And what more would we want, ourselves, and his family, and any citizen with a minimum of humanity, than a person who has not been judged, who is not respected by the presumption of innocence, as Turull himself reminded us in an article appearing in La Vanguarda this week, who enjoys freedom under bail, was here, where they belong, and not in prison. Miri, you're talking about expanding without the investment process, hoping that the independent parties will try to find the solution to the game impossible to reconcile the ever-variable whims of an escape from justice and the disproportionate demands of the anti-system. They're his words. The demands, excessive or not, have to be accepted, hardly weighing us on some occasions, because they are part of the democratic game, in the course of which you try to get the favor of the other dialoguers, not imposing. And sometimes failures, and then every one decides how and why he acts like he acts. But what is obvious is that I would never like to name the elected president of a government, who has overcome a question of trust and legitimate elections, a fugitive from justice. Because what you call "variable whims" are actually a sense of state and a generosity towards its people who would already want a lot of countries, and who are many citizens of this country and, of course, to the thirty-four deputies of Junts for Catalonia makes us proud and honored. He wrote Mercè Rodoreda – and I see myself at the top every time he speaks of the president and exiles in ignominious terms: "I am tired, deeply tired, tired to the anime, of revolutions, of coups d'état, of civil war, of great war, and of this delusion of manar that they have men, especially those who do not know how to manar. And to bring down those who know. « Deliris of manar of those who do not know how to manar. And the will to bring down those who know. It's so eloquent that I can't add more to it. The Rodoreda, however, could be tired; we are not. We won't get tired. The weary are the determined attitudes that we are just working to try to reverse. We are determined to exercise the popular mandate that emerges from the ballot box. And remember that if there was something that President Puigdemont was running away from, it was of manifest injustice that he and the rest of his legitimate government are patenting. They will be pleased to know that Councillor Ponsatí's lawyer, Mr Anwar, has stated in a textual interview that we have read to El Nacional, that the fugitives of justice are the police of '1 October, these polices to whom you would like to honor, or perhaps have already decorated, while the people control the violence exercised by them, and that if they have not been by the PRs that were approved in this House they would have been left uncondemned in this Parliament. But I don't know what I'm saying, if his own party accepts that there are associations in Spain in defense of the arrival of a dictator, such as the Francisco Franco Foundation, which is responsible for public money, because according to its secretary general, there are also organizations in Catalonia that have public money and are against constitutional values. I'm sorry, but this is unacceptable. That they can compare associations that are financed with the shares of their associates and that finance the boxes of resistance with which to deal with repression, and that moreover, in the case of Cultural Ómnium, it was also necessary to suffer this repression in the time of the dictator, is unacceptable. Ismael Peña-López, a colleague and friend, already clarified them yesterday with ciphers the public origin of the moneys of Omnium, and as a gift left them the information in the form of a graph of the social base of all two entities, you and Omnium. [[The speaker shows the camera a full in which various graphics are reproduced.]] I'll leave you to it, in case you want to find out. It has more than one hundred and a thousand members and Cities in about thirty and a thousand. And almost 100_percent of the contributions of Ómnium are from private sources, while almost 90_percent of what citizens say are public donations. Bertolt Brecht said that whoever doesn't know the truth is simply an ignorant, but who knows it and the name lied to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.55.0	Miss Erras...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.56.0	...he's a criminal. I'm done, President. As they have served a moralizing purpose, I also allow myself to end the words of a German Lutheran pastor, Martin Niemöller, of a sermon in which I wanted to prevent danger from detecting tyranny in time: "When the Nazis came to seek the Communists, I kept silence, because I was not a communist. When the Social-Democrats started, I kept quiet, because I wasn't a Social-Democrat. When they came looking for the trade unionists, I didn't protest, because I wasn't a trade unionist. When they came looking for the Jews, I didn't protest, because I wasn't. When they came to pick me up, there was no one else I could protest. We live in times of manifest injustice, abuse and lack of solidarity and humanity. So I hope they never get to find each other, Citizens, that there's no one...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.57.0	Miss Erras...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.58.0	...in order to be able to protest before injustices, which affect how candidates to be invested president of the Generality in this Parliament, affect us all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.59.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.60.0	You've got yours, too. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.61.0	Thank you, Mrs. Borrás. It's back to the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Jenn Díaz's.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.62.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, companies and companies, I should not be here today to talk about the motion for a resolution of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. In the first place, for their content, they claim, as usual, to add soroll to the political debate. In second place, because, despite defending the contrary, today no longer has vigor. Wanting to strain the hemicle and give continuity to the fracture and division report are the only reasons I find for being here before all of you. A parliamentary group that claims so insistently to unlock the chamber should be aware that not withdrawing proposals in time is another form of blocking. The deputies and the deputies of Ciutadans ask that the president of the Parliament proposed a candidate, and I quote..., "that he is willing to address himself personally to the chamber to present the government program that he intends to promote. The first candidate was Mr. Carles Puigdemont, and they opened all the trunks of the cars to make sure that he could not be invested, making a magnificent ridiculous. On the second candidate, Mr. Jordi Sánchez, the UN Committee has already told us that we are violating their political rights. And I'd like to remind you, in case you've forgotten, that two weeks ago we were here, on a sad day, making the investiture debate of Mr. Jordi Turull, who today is in the prison of Extremera, locked unjustly. If Judge Llarena didn't agree to do politics, we would already be president of the Generality and Government. They don't mean it, yes, they're already moving on, of their own liking. Couldn't have, the deputies of Ciutadans, withdrawn this motion for a resolution because it was obsolete. But, as I said, they prefer to continue fuelling the controversy. They asked President Torrent, a few days ago, to communicate his choice of a viable candidate, following the three candidates presented and giving in fact that this is the work of the parliamentary groups and not of the president. So, it's very simple: in the round of contacts, present 'as with the candidate, Mrs. Arrimadas; we want to know what his government program is and how they want to unlock the chamber. At these heights, however, it is neither strange for us that Ciutadans prioritizes tension and feeds on the miserable wreaths of a moment of exception like that which has touched us living: except not only in institutions, except not only in the street, except also in the lack of empathy and humanity. This legislature has begun without government, with bold leaders or under threat, with a permanent and constant judicialization of a peaceful and democratic political and social movement. And what do we find in opposition? We find parliamentary groups more concerned about their race to Moncloa, than about the situation of absolute fragility in the country. We find a lack of institutional respect that goes from the treachery when the reapers sound to the instrumentalization of the castle to generate division. I, like Castilian speaking, as the wife of letters by Carmen Martín Gaite and Miguel Deliberes, as a lover of the Catalan language and with extreme and Andalusian arms like the flag, see myself in the obligation to say: the castle is not your instrument, the castle does not offend us, the castle does not lengthen you, however much this is its object. [[Widow's remorse.]] I don't think they force their interventions and their texts to see who feels more Spanish, more constitutionalist, more opposition. The castle in Parliament has always been used...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.63.0	You're gonna have to keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.64.0	...with some interests that they have little to do with the domain of language, and it hurts. They don't start, they can speak in Catalan, they can even speak in Catalan without negatating it with 3_per_cent and the process. They can sing hymns, they can show institutional respect and not be rude. No one will question them, no one will be confused. [[Greetings.]] You can be calm, you're doing enough to scratch votes on the Spanish right; don't make such a scene, don't make it all to lead the opposition. March 28th, just a few days ago, you've been wasting our time again. They re-treated a motion for a resolution that blocked more than helped to get out of the sugarcane that the State proposed to us. We listened to them. They exposed their motives for which the Speaker of Parliament was to resign. And we went out of the House with a president with more support than the day he was chosen. Don't they get it, they won't get there? [[Rialles.]] You don't see, what do you have as the new enemy the Speaker of Parliament won't get king? That they have not understood, yet, that the most voted force, without sufficient support, has little recourse and will not resolve them to pose in question the figure of the President of the Parliament? They can't blame the outcome of Mr. Roger Torrent's 21-D election. Ask yourself why, despite running for illegitimate elections and girls to win – and I don't say that, as Mrs. Dolores de Cospedal said – they didn't get what they were proposing at the polls. The whole machine claimed a victory of constitutionalism, which lasted the one-night election party in the Plaza Espanya. And since the ballot boxes couldn't get the most needed, they are now dedicated to asking and demanding. They want to purge the Mossos, clean TV3, deny the syndic and have the Speaker of the Parliament resign. So it's like respecting diversity, nullifying who doesn't think like you? If they don't like the people voting, ask them to fine-tune you. Rescue petitions like today, instead of removing it, confirms it. The policy that you defend is a policy of cremated land, of fracture, of confrontation. The report that makes the campaigns, the media and the street serve is an alarm and conflict report. That is why when the project of the Republic has in its DNA pacifism and ballot boxes, they do not know how to fight or win. But to you the reality never space the headline and continue feeding the speech of the fracture, because otherwise they have no more plans to do the competition to their governing partner, Mr. Rajoy. Against his alarmism there is no other alternative: we will follow, as yet, speaking of a people's sun of Catalonia. Angry and frightening, and it's normal, because they misunderstand that a people's sun is a uniform people. They still do not understand, or do not want to understand, the diversity and richness of Catalonia, of its citizenship. I invite them to look at the other bench. I don't have to. You can see the plurality of this people that we defend, which does not differ either by origin, by speech or by ideology. They are wrong, if they think that this only people that many have in their heads do not include you and your voters, despite their reluctance. [[Widow's remorse.]] Those who want Catalonia faced are the same ones who do not consider this country so small combined by so many. But we don't, we leave them here with their proposals, asking for resignation and demanding from everyone the coherence and respect that you – and here we have an exhibition – don't defend from their escons. Meanwhile, we Republicans will never give up the seduction that Jordi Cuixart always speaks of: to seduce those who have not yet discovered that under such demagogicity there is nothing. We, the Republicans, are fighting the lie and the fracturing speech so far, with the extended hand, ruling for everyone and adding every time more complicity, in and out of Catalonia. We, the poor people, will not give up anything or anything, because, despite everything, we do not lose hope, which is precisely what we expect. "What your opponent would want," writes Rebecca Solnit, "is that you believe that there is no hope, that you have no power, that there is no reason to act, that you cannot win. If anything characterizes us, it is that we persist and that we raise all of us and each of the times that we sob with an authoritarian and repressive state. If anything characterizes us, we don't give up and when we don't find the exact formula, together, like October 1, we get out. And as I also come from letters like Laura Borràs..., cities don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, but, like Mercè Rodoreda, we're Catalans, and I would say that tenacity is our currency. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.65.0	Thank you, Mrs. Diaz. It is now the turn, for the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group, of Mrs. Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.66.0	Thank you, President. A few days after the PR of Ciutadans demanding the resignation of Mr Torrent, another PR of Ciutadans in this case demanding from the President of Parliament the compliment of his institutional function – in favor, right? , as I put it..., in the other debate – and on the impulse of the process of an investiture. Out of time. It's been a while. It's already done an investiture, it's already voted for Mr. Turull; the clock is already on the way, gentlemen of Ciutadans. I mean, things have to be presented in time and in form, they have to be completed with the two conditions, and once again the lords of Ciutadans come here with the main theme... because we read the initiatives that are voted on, and the main theme is that they say: "The president has never wanted to present a candidate who could be invested and who could attend his investiture. Home, this argument had been heard until March 22, the investiture of Turull, who was here and made his debate. It is true that the debate was called to order, that we don't like how Mr Torrent works, that he doesn't represent us; I mean, that's what we said, we'll say it again; but let's see what you've heard now? How did you feel about this motion for a resolution at this time? Because, besides, there's another argument, that yesterday Mrs. Arrimadas was explaining it on the press wheel, which is the report of the letters. And he says, "You have to do an equivalent act because you start running the clock. So the clock is already running. It's just that the clock runs the moment it's done a vote here. Therefore, this PR should have withdrawn, and think of some other way to highlight the things that Mr. Torrent is doing badly. Because it's true that there are many things he does wrong. But just this one... it's already been voted on! It's just that we've already done... the clock is already running. Then, today, April 5th, the clock is on its way, and you're late. And it's back to being a PR out of time and it's back to being a useless PR. I think they should prepare more and better their initials, because the presses and opportunism are not good travel companions. Look, the past day you were calling for Torrent's resignation from President Torrent, and it wasn't possible because you had a majority; it wasn't going anywhere. They're asking me to explain why I shouldn't put the watch on the line. So it turns out that the clock is already set. And I told them, why didn't they do it with the former president? Because, of course, this is an argument for us. Mrs. Forcadell began her mandate proclaiming the republic and making a statement that she did not respect any law. And you didn't do anything! I've proven it in the SIAP; you didn't exactly do it. And, therefore, with this same situation, we are going to see what the different parliamentary groups have done. When Mr Torrent postponed the investiture without a day, my parliamentary group went to the Constitutional Court, because we understood that they were violating the rights of Catalans to have a government. And you, therefore, manifest, not to respect; but in the end to preach and to make pressing wheels to remember that you have won the elections, but who has demanded there is a government and that the Catalans are right to have a government has been the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to Advance. And, mirin, what happened to the last legislature? – because we've done a bit of memory, too. The first vote of Mr. Mas was made on November 10, and on November 12, the second; November 10 and 12, the first vote of Mr. Mas. The second investment vote was that of Mr Puigdemont and was the 10th generation. I mean, from November 10 to generation 10 here it's not voting anything. And what did you do in these two months? They didn't do anything. Did they ask for a resignation with a PR? No, no, Did they ask for explanations? No, no, Did they go to the Constitutional Court before and before? No, no, Neither for the investiture nor for the delegated votes nor for the negligence of Mr Torrent. No, I'm not. We've already said, it's true that Mr. Torrent doesn't represent us all. The other day the chairman of my parliamentary group, Mr Iceta, said: "That, Mr Torrent, is not a party coordinator with a weighted vote. And that's what we want to remind Mr. Torrent, that we want you to represent us all when you talk to us and when you talk about unitary statements, it's if you've spoken to all the groups in the chamber. And that Mr. Torrent is not doing. And, therefore, we also want to recriminate this attitude on the part of Mr. Torrent. But, listen to me, March 28th was an investiture. You... besides, there's also a theme, also, of..., the order of factors here also slightly alters the product, because..., if you first ask her quit and then explain..., man, well, I don't know, we graduate, right? : First, we ask for explanations, and if he doesn't give them after we ask for resignation. But here we have also made an embolism, and first we ask for resignation and then we ask for explanations. And I told them the other day: do they have anything else to offer, the lords of Ciutadans? Do you have anything? The Pepa Bueno said: "A lot to preach and little to give wheat. And I liked that phrase from Pepa Bueno, because just now we have, in the Community of Madrid, right? , the lady Cifuentes who does not find her final master's work..., donnes do not know..., there it is time to give wheat ; here they preach, there they give wheat. [[Greetings.]] Maybe, maybe... Mrs. Arrimadas was talking about transparency, and it's a concept I love. Perhaps Ciutadans's lords have found the final master's work, and as he does not have to raise the motion of censure. If that's what it is, fantastic, isn't it? And it will have served some purpose in this claim of transparency. Look, if you wanted to unlock the investiture, you could have done... I've had three things brought to me, in connection with this motion for a resolution. First, Mrs. Arrimadas, I could have introduced you as president. He showed up, came here, didn't he? We didn't get the votes out, but, well, the calendar already counted and we already unlocked... which is what we all wanted. But you didn't want to propose to the president. As the first group in the chamber, he opened a round with all the parliamentary groups, a dialect, a few conversations, to see if he could promote, from his leadership of the first parliamentary group, to contribute to the unlocking. That didn't do it either. And, in the third place, man, you can make a change of rules; promote a change of rules, because there is no legislative chamber where the president below gives explanations. I didn't find any priors. So, I don't know, I thought they could... so, listen'm, head of the three things, they did. Therefore, let us re-observe the uselessness of the initials of the first group of the chamber. I'm asking them, and yesterday I was talking to members of your group, looking for accomplices. We share a lot of things with you about what you're doing to this gang of the hemicicle; you're breaking the laws, you're promoting a conflict in Catalonia that nobody wants. But what we can't do is feed the conflict. We'll have to help derail the conflict. And with this gesticulation the only thing we're doing is fact... Now it's been seen, Mrs. Arrimadas was heading for the group, not addressing the president, because the president is true that he doesn't do what he has to do, but he can't do what he can't do. And so, in the end, it's a matter of these gentlemen agreeing and we have a candidate who can be finally – finally – President of the Generality. She was asking for transparency, Mrs. Arrimadas, and I'm unlocking it. And I want to end..., because I think that the lords of Citizens many times when they make press rounds say: "The things that we are doing, that are..., "the things that are necessary that are not done in Catalonia... And that we also complain. And they're talking about blockage and transparency. Miri, transparency is that some day they explain to the Catalans, which also affects them, so that they veto to the Bureau of the Congress of the Deputies proposals of laws that affect the assembly of Catalans: the universalization of the right to health care – this is what Ciutadan and the People's Party have vetoed – ; the proposition of law against the energy poor; the imposition of judicial taxes, the abolition of judicial taxes; the re-evaluation of pensions; cultural VAT; electric self-consumption; non-contributory pensions; the improvement of the retirement pension; the suspension of the calendar of the LOMCE... That is, we have a lot of initiatives at the Congress of Deputies that the bipartite PP and the City are dedicated to the elderly, and that they are not transparent when you act. Because this has an impact on Catalans and Catalans. Also, also the assumptions; the same assumptions that leave Catalonia in a situation of inferiority and that lower social investment over what they say the economy will grow. Therefore, lords of Ciutadans, begin to think of the conjunction of the Catalans and begin to think that if they want to make initiates, they have to do things well girls. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.67.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs. Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.68.0	Thank you, President. And good morning to all and to all. Today it might have been the day when we had a ple and we didn't talk about the process, but it was too nice to imagine it, and Ciutadan soon came up with a proposal for an expired resolution, more than three weeks ago; a proposal for a resolution but that I don't solve absolutely anything and that it only continues to generate conflict. And with this new motion for a resolution, I'm beginning to think, Mr. and Mr. Ciutadans, that so much talking about the process is connected to the taste of doing symbolic things to you too. Because, to be honest, his motion for a resolution does not require transparency, it does not mean that it is the only thing that they know how to do or at least that they are proving at the moment that they know how to do. I read: "The Catalonian Parliament notes that the President of the Catalonian Parliament is neglecting his institutional duty to promote a viable candidacy for the presidency of the Generalitat. Mrs. Arrimadas, and without being used as a precedent, I will take over what your friends and friends of the People's Party give you: aren't you the president of the first force in votes in Catalonia? And, I mean, it wouldn't be logical if they saw that the independent parties weren't agreeing to make government, could they have given you the step and put forward your candidacy, like at least to start unblocking this blocking situation that we have? So, the concern shouldn't be so much when instead of showing up and running the clock you decided to sweat a raccoon, look, protest and do absolutely nothing for profit. And I have my theory of why they do it, and now we have the opportunity to explain it. First of all, I think there's one other thing that's after the process and the old Convergence, and it's to blame it all on one cause. The setback of ''Spain may still be the fault of the process, and so I take my hands off and take no political responsibility. And the other, as I said last week, is that you are a force practicing cremated land policy, and that makes you an absolutely winged force. And to the facts in reference; there they have representation, or they are supporting the parties to which no one wants to give support: Mr. Rajoy, to Cifuentes, to the PSOE of the EROs, or, when they are not supporting, they are absolutely winged, as is the case with Catalonia. And every single day they show they're a blocking force. I am at the Congress, it has already been said, where they are alienating Rajoy to put up with more than fifty initiations of the rest of the parties, which could improve, and much, the lives of the people, it is to say, the denouncement of the Bureau to Catalonia is what you are doing at the Congress of Deputies. They're in Catalonia, where the confidence they've been given more than a million voters is only meant to throw fire and not present solutions. And now they're also in Madrid, where instead of asking Cristina Cifuentes to resign, they're asking for a commission of inquiry, and we all know that this commission of inquiry doesn't seek to investigate anything, the only thing he wants to do is buy time and let time pass because it lowers the issue. [[Some applause.]] This is the democratic regeneration that you are supposed to represent. And another exhibition: the difficulties they have in approving the general assumptions of the State, since it seems that fatherhood is shared between Mr. Rivera and Mr. Rajoy. Certainly, I don't know if you've spoken to Mr. Rivera to elaborate these assumptions, because there are two questions as to how they grow enough and contrast with the speech they make. The first, Mrs. Arrimadas, as a woman, has said that she is firmly committed to the struggle against male violence. Can you explain to us how your assumptions with Rajoy, of the EUR 200_million that they were supposed to contribute to the Pact against Masclist Violence, remained at EUR 80_million? [[Greetings.]] Is that the compromise you're showing? The second, on the compliment of the Constitution and the Statute, so much so that they please you, the lawfulness in force. Do you know, Mrs. Arrimadas, that these general assumptions skip the Constitution because they do not complete its Article 50? It is a maquíssim article, which says: "The public authorities will ensure, through adequate and regularly updated pensions, the economic sufficiency of citizens during the elderly. The translation: push all pensions to the level of the cost of living, which is what you don't do with these assumptions. And I'll say it more: do you know that the assumptions of those that you get pitted also skip the Statue? Specifically what the Statute says in its third additional provision. It says: "The percentage of investment in our home should be equivalent to Catalonia's GDP in accordance with the conjunction of the State. Do you know what this GDP is? A 19,2_per_cent. Do you know how many people give us their assumptions? A 13,3_per_cent. And that's why I ask you again: have you spoken to Mr. Rivera to elaborate the assumptions? Because neither defend women, nor defend the great people, nor defend Catalonia. Mrs. Arrimadas said: "There are a lot of people who are asking: What are you doing? What are you doing in Parliament? And I ask them: what are the lords and lords of Ciutadans doing? Look, we're a small, modest force, we have a representation of eight deputies and we've made a proposal to unlock the situation and give, finally, an answer to the citizen's demand for the country to move forward. That is to say, we have proposed a government where the parties take a step back to the general interest. They may or may not like it, but the proposal is in the table. It is that the opposition, the parties of this chamber and, in concrete terms, the opposition, must present alternatives to arrive where the parties that are called to form the government do not arrive. We are here to do politics and to give the best of us for a Catalonia that does not even go well for its best moment. But you, as I have said many times before, have decided to live the process in a political place thinking of the citizenry you represent. And when asked for a political proposal or a solution, one, Mrs. Arrimadas said..., and we were able to read it the other day to the interview they were doing to La Vanguardia, said: "There will be no solution if citizens and their voters are marginalized. Do you know who marginalizes Ciutadans? Do you know who marginalizes Ciutadans' voters? So you side with them, because instead of sitting in a table, chatting, talking with other forces, proposing outings at this bus, you curl up, and you just blame the trial parties, but also any other party that, besides, we're trying to make proposals from the table to unravel this situation. You are marginalizing the more than a million voters who have put their trust in you, because you are not doing anything with the trust that you have given them. [[Greetings.]] We see that in four_months and I cast the victory of Ciutadans in elections only served because you followed propaganda with a speech that did not change a_millimeter. Honestly, lords and lords of Ciutadans, you are the worst political scam ever seen from the master of Cristina Cifuentes. And I encourage them to change their attitude. You are getting a lot of people who had cregued in you, both to unlock Catalonia and to build a different Spain. Because, in addition to doing everything possible to broaden the process, the Spanish that you offer is too much like Mariano Rajoy's. And if not, one can only look at the assumptions they support, that they are perpetuating some austerity policies at a time of enrichment. Look, there's a sentence you said the other day, the day of Mr. Turull's failed investiture, with which my group president, Xavier Domènech, already said he agreed, and the phrase was: "Spain is not Mariano Rajoy. And you're right. Spanish isn't Mariano Rajoy. Who's the hope right now in the whole state that some in this room don't like to listen to? So, the hope of the State and the hope of Catalonia are the thousands of pensioners who are going out on the street to tell you that the Constitution has to be completed. And the democratic hope of this country is also the millions of women who on March 8 taught us a way of democratization, cooperation and fraternity. And the definitive solution to the conflict in Catalonia will come from this path of democratization that the pensioners teach us and that the women teach us, but it will also come, and above all it will come, from what we do here, working seriously to end 155 and to return the institutions to which they belong, which is citizenship. You have shown that you are neither for democratisation in the State nor for the solution in Catalonia. And that's why they don't have any legitimacy today or to give lessons to anyone left behind from functions and responsibilities. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.69.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.70.0	Well, thank you, President. Go forward with our greetings to the BDS companies that are accompanying us today in Parliament to make visible their rebroadcast, which we share, to the illegitimate military aggression of the State of Israel over Palestinian territories that has occurred in these days. [[Greetings.]] Well, for what it does to Ciutadans' motion for a resolution, obviously our parliamentary group will vote against it, because we understand that this initiative forms part of the settlement strategy against the institution of the presidency of the Parliament that your group has already begun in the mandate of Carme Forcadell. In that case, in addition, with clear elements of less and attack of a masculist position against the president of the chamber. All our support and solidarity with President Forcadell. Since she was arrested, she's still representing us and we want her free. Both then and now his style is clearly inquisitorial and forms part clearly of the repressive strategy of the State, of which you are necessary accomplices, criminalizing persons and institutions that do not cooperate with the dictatorial drift of the Spanish State, and clearly exercising their parliamentary action as if the prosecution is dealt with, in precise terms that can then form part of a judicial charge. We are not going to work with Carme Forcadell and we are not going to work with President Torrent now; years on the contrary: we are going to fight him now as we did then, in respect of the institution, the person and the parliamentary ethics that you do not have. It is obvious, too, that our parliamentary group has not shared some of the decisions of the President of Parliament, especially those that have implied strict obedience to the Constitutional Court or Supreme Court, and in this sense I would like to highlight the failure to celebrate the investiture of Carles Puigdemont on the 30th generation. So let us defend the institution and its dignity, which you continually offend. And the institutional blockade that you so much denounce has a clear cause: the coup d'état of 155 of which you are complicit and which, among other violations of democracy in Catalonia, violates the rights of people elected by the people, their right to vote, the right to be candidates or candidates and to be invested or invested, and threatens to defend democracy in this chamber. Let us ask the presidency of Parliament not to fail in defending democracy and the sovereignty of our people and its chamber. If this is the case, they know that they can count on our maximum involvement with all the consequences and without any limitation. And since you are talking about transparency, Mrs. Arrimadas, we want to take advantage to demand that the Spanish Government give its face, that the Spanish Government submit to parliamentary control in this chamber, since, dictatorially and despotically, it has usurped the function of the Government of the Generality in application of Article 155. The refusal to do so clearly demonstrates its anti-democratic character and the absolutely dictatorial character in Catalonia of the State and of the institutions and parties that support it with a clearly and strictly colonial logic. You will tell us: "Look, the Spanish government is not going to undermine parliamentary control in this chamber, which is hard enough to say. They'll tell us he's in the Senate, which I'll do. But, look, it turns out that the Senate didn't create any control over the Spanish government in its 155th exercise and that I know, no unionist party, no citizens, no People's Party, no Socialist Party – that I know, huh? – called for the creation of this entity. Therefore, you, who so much transparency demand this chamber, absolutely demand it from the Spanish State in its application exercise of 155. Therefore, Mrs. Arrimadas, please, ask the Spanish Government, ask the Government of the Spanish State, to which you give support, to give your face, to have the courage and courage to appear in this chamber so as to account for the application of 155. Precisely we are already doing it, we ask that you can submit to parliamentary control and that you have the decency and the dignity to appear in this chamber when defending a decree is dealt with. That they don't, I said in the past, you'll work, that I don't feel sorry for anyone for their payments – that I don't feel sorry for anyone. Our support and our commitment to dignity and to the working rights of the civil servants of this country are absolutely guaranteed. But also know that we will not tirelessly fail to denounce the despotism of the State – the despotism of the State – which applies dictatorially to Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.71.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. Now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mrs. Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.72.0	Yes, good morning. Well, as you will know, on the Board of Spokesmen our parliamentary group demonstrated certain reservations about this proposal, because we understood that, once we heard the first session and the vote of investiture in this chamber, what it was about was that it should be set up to formalize those rounds of contacts and subsequent investiture, which is the main task of this Parliament to return institutional normality to Catalonia. And that is why we were going to abstain from that proposal. But, given what has happened today in this parliamentary chamber, we have no choice but to demand explanations and to demand that a Speaker of the Parliament come down to this rostrum, who is no longer – who is no longer – an institutional figure, but a figure more of the agitation and propaganda that the independent narrative needs. An independentist story that only feels comfortable if it's in its media CDR, in that agitation command that's TV3, that last rendezvous in which it hangs its fantasy [[remorse of the voice]] – on which you hang your fantasy – on which you base – on which you base – a political ideology that demonstrates today that it does not serve to manage, that it does not serve to govern, that it does not serve for the majority of Catalans, but that you simply use it to sustain that victimistic narrative, that independent narrative against which you only feel comfortable. They say they want to expand social majority. How and when? If the only thing they do, and they've always done, is divide. They divided and divided Catalans between good and bad. We were evil those who did not follow the moral ethics of "pujolist". They then divided the Catalans between democrats and non-democrats, as we bowed to the will of democratic abuses that they did in this chamber on September 6 and 7. That date I hope you will always remember it; we will remember it. And then now they come and say they separate Catalans between good and bad people. Do you know what's going on? That today you are dividing the Catalans between those who deserve their salary and those who do not deserve their salary. Because today what they have done is to kidnap the pay, the salaries of the officials, to continue with their independent narrative, to continue with their victimism. There was no reason – no reason – to kidnap the salaries of the officials, only to keep themselves in their victimism. Because you don't like to rule. And what has been shown is that the Government of Spain, since the measures were implemented... exceptional in democracy, I agree, but no less exceptional than what you were perpetuating, its de facto dependence on autonomy in this Parliament, closed, as always, only to its independenceist political wills..., what we were doing and what we were coming to do here was political. It was to prove that this parliamentary chamber could once and for all open itself to politics: that of the social majority, that of expanding, that of proving that we are useful. But today, once again, independence closes this parliamentary chamber to real politics. How can they say that they are going to expand social majorities? How can they say that their ideology is useful for something, if not even today they show that it is a useful ideology for officials in Catalonia to be able to return the salary they deserve and the extra pay they deserve? What annoys them, and it annoys them, is that with the implementation of 155, this exodus of companies, this social tension, this institutional tension has been halted. What bothers them is that since 155 the public services of Catalonia have functioned normally, the officials have continued to charge. What annoys you is that we have managed to govern Catalonia better by respecting – respecting – your autonomy, which you have never done. Learn to respect Catalonia's autonomy. Learn to respect the competences of this Parliament and then we will be taught by good or bad democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.73.0	Thank you, Mrs. Levy. As long as no papers have been submitted, we shall proceed directly to the vote. Call it a vote. [[Inés Arrimadas García asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Arrimadas?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.74.0	Yes, Mr. President, for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.75.0	Mrs Arrimadas, it seems to me that all parliamentary groups have referred to your group, which is absolutely logical, as you have tabled the motion for a resolution. [[Widow's remorse.]] What we won't do now [[applause]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.76.0	Mr. Torrent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.77.0	...what we won't do now, Mrs. Arrimadas, is to open a turn, again, of debate. There are no exams; therefore, there is no new turn. Let's go straight to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.78.0	Mr Torrent, a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.79.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.80.0	This replica shift has always been respected, even when you were a Member of Parliament. There's always a replica turn for allusions, always, a final turn, always. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.81.0	No, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.82.0	I appeal to review...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.83.0	...ma'am Arrimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.84.0	...as the word has been given by the former...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.85.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.86.0	...presidents. Even, you gave me a replica the other day from the seat...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.87.0	...because he was playing, but not today.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.88.0	...be consistent with yourself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.89.0	Madame Arrimadas, you know perfectly well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.90.0	Personal allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.91.0	...that now we won't open a tower... [[remorse of the voice]] A new tower. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, Mrs Arrimadas, it is normal that you have referred to your parliamentary group, because you have tabled the motion for a resolution. He doesn't have a new turn because there are no exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.92.0	No, I want to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.93.0	And, therefore, let's go straight through...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.94.0	Mr. Torrent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.95.0	...to vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.96.0	Mr. Torrent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.97.0	Let's go straight to the vote, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I say again, but I'll insist again... if you insist again with the same idea, I'll insist again...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.98.0	Mr Torrent, since you don't appear, at least don't take the floor from the speakers. I'm not asking you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.99.0	I can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.100.0	...a second shift...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.101.0	...that brought him the..., that he said that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.102.0	...Mr. Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.103.0	...pass the word, Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.104.0	On a point of order: I am not asking you for a second round, because there have been no amendments. I am asking you for personal allusions of thirty seconds from the seat, as has always been done and as you have done in the last plenary. Mr. Torrent, really, you have no right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.105.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.106.0	...to remove the replica...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.107.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.108.0	Not the replica...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.109.0	I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.110.0	...but the allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.111.0	They're not allusions. They meant...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.112.0	What do you mean, they're not allusions? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.113.0	They referred to the proposed parliamentary group. There won't be a new turn. Therefore, we call for a vote and move on to a vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.114.0	Well, nothing. Neither you appear nor give the floor, very well. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.115.0	If there is no separate request for a vote, we shall proceed directly to the vote on the joint motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 94 with no abstentions. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a committee of inquiry into the storms of 17 and 18 August 2017]] [[252-0002/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a committee of inquiry into the 17th and 18th of August. This proposal has been submitted for the Parliamentary Groups of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republic and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. Therefore, to present this initiative, we will start a debate with the proposed parliamentary groups in a single two-minute period for each parliamentary group and five, as usual, for the subgroup. Therefore, in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr.Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.116.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In the first place, before presenting the justification for this proposal, we expressed once more, from Junts to Catalonia, the sincere record, respect and recognition for the seven death victims and the more than one hundred injuries of the tragic successes of August 17th in Barcelona, August 18th in Cambrils, as well as for their families, friends, their cities and their native lands. [[Greetings.]] Let us consider, in bringing this proposal here to Parliament, that in a democratic state that we should consider normal..., to any state of the normal, democratic world, or to any European country, we cannot imagine that it will pass almost six months before its lower parliamentary chamber – in this case, the Congress – there has been no data or information about what happened, as it did at the Congress of Deputies, finally on March 6. But especially with more gravity after the month of November, and through the press media, it is filtered without, first, it is not denied and, finally, it is recognized certainly information linking this key character in this tragic history, the imam Es Satty, the imam of Ripoll, with the National Center of Intelligence and some State Security Forces. Let us remember, therefore, that today we arrive here after the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies rejected the appearance of the Minister of the Interior, of Minister Zoido, to give explanations in committee or in the same Congress. Also after the same director of the CNI, forced for this information transmitted on November 17, asked to compare him himself to the Committee on Reserved Expenses and Official Secrets, of the Congress. A commission which, as its name indicates, cannot transcend its content, but which until March was not made materialize this presence and this, therefore, appears. Also, after the Bureau of Congress also vetoed the petition for the creation of a commission of inquiry on the CNI and its relationship with the imam Es Satty, suggesting, in this case, that it was an area of "national security and that it should be resolved in this committee of official secrets and reserved expenses". We arrive here after the investigations of the Squadron's Cosos to relate and link the Imam Es Satty to the 2004 Chacal operation. What is surprising are previous convictions in 2006, for crimes of injury or for crimes against the Administration of Justice of this Es Satty to the Basque Country, or after the conviction, in 2010, for drug trafficking, with judgment in 2015 for expulsion, agreed for the Subdelegation of the Government, of Castelló ; order of expulsion that was never executed, and that, later, moreover, was coincided with asil. On the other hand, precedents that surprisingly did not appear in the databases of the autonomous police, the Mossos d'Esquadra de Catalunya. We arrive here after you have also transcended the pressure that until three times the effect of the state police had gone to see the imam Es Satty in Ripoll before August 17. We arrive here after feeling multiple statements and appearances in social media, from the former secretary of the Unified Police Union, saying that the image smells like a police confidant, or, after all, that the main leader of the opposition to the State tells us that "it seems amazing that in a democratic country what happened can be covered up. Therefore, we come here to present this committee of inquiry in Parliament with a proposal with which we hope to resolve this chain of vetoes and olds that took place in the Congress by some state parties. We therefore want the Parliament of Catalonia to be able to set up an order and complete a cycle for our citizens, for our society: the cycle of dol. Citizenship needs answers, it needs to be able to complete those questions that remain pending to complete its suffering. We also denounce that so much secrecy and so much reservation on the part of the State does not help to complete this process of mourning to our society, to our cities and to our villains, to the families involved. This concealment generates insecurity and uncertainty, until we can consider ourselves deceived as a society, even if I would say that it is betrayed; you especially betray those populations that like Cambrils, like Alcanar, like Barcelona, like Upirats or like my Ripoll, in this case..., we were directly affected by the consequences of what happened on August 17th and 18th. Therefore, we ask that it be possible to clarify publicly, through this commission of inquiry and its conclusions, those shadows that wrap up the case of the imam Es Satty and recognize it in complicity with the secret servants and with the security of the state. The committee that we propose should clarify all this information about the imam Es Satty, clarify the correlation of errors in the chain of communication and coordination between the different police forces, know what control and information measures existed about this personage and how they were managed. Let us express, through this petition, that as a democratic society we have the right to keep asking ourselves: do they store anything else? How far did it go and up this long arm of the CNI to our country? We see that up there a lot, huh? , until Finland, but in change it was not able to arrive until Ripoll. Is the security of the people of Catalonia and of the people who visit us – tourists, visitors, floating people – guaranteed in the hands of these information services and these security things that store information for us, as we have seen? Uncertainty, lack of transparency, creates mistrust, and mistrust in security systems and police information systems are not good for coexistence. We don't feel like we've been loyal to the city. With this feeling of complacency we ask, therefore, this creation of this commission of inquiry. We want to know if there are any responsibilities behind it, if we could have avoided the tempts, with the dead and the victims. We have the right to ask ourselves - I mean, we have the right to ask for answers to whom I did have the information; therefore, we have this right to ask ourselves if you are imagining anything else and to demand the truth and the responsibilities. So this is the proposal we are jointly signing with the Republican Left Group and the CUP Group to request the creation of this committee, huh? , so that you describe and document all these facts that occurred in Catalonia on August 17 and 18, analyze participation, preparation and involvement in the configuration and execution of these phenomena on the part of the imam Es Satty and her cell, the different lines of investigation carried out for intelligence services and security objects, the damage and consequences on persons and benefits, the possible responsibilities, the international and global geopolitical context, the institutional response mechanisms before the storms and the implementation of the socio-educational system, also before these facts. This is the proposal that we are presenting and that we hope, therefore, that no group will object to it, in honor of the truth and the maximum transparency in a case that has severely affected our society. Many, many thanks. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.117.0	Thank you, Mr. Munell. Now it's the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group. It's Mrs. Fornells' turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.118.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, public escorting us and following us, very good morning to everyone. It is strange to intervene again from this Faristol and to be unable to address the members of the Government who are unjustly in prison or exile. I want to direct a small record for all of them and for companies, Members and Members who cannot be here today. First of all, I'd like to have a record for all the victims of the Barcelona and Cambrils storms, their families and their friends. All support and solidarity from our group. The 17th and 18th of August in Catalonia we experienced very tragic and painful events that we would not forget, after the storms of Barcelona and Cambrils occurred, where seventeen people lost their lives, and more than one hundred and twenty wounded resulted from different considerations. Temptations were claimed for the Islamic State and led, according to the investigations, for Abdelbaki is Satty, the imam of Ripoll. On November 17, the CNI admitted contacts with Ripoll's imam, and that this one was his confidant. The case of young terrorists who stormed on August 17 differs greatly from the prototype that has been given in the other moments of these characteristics in different cities of Europe. Here the young people were fully integrated in Ripoll, they were born here, they spoke our language, they were forming or working and certainly with prospects for the future, they had never lived in social marginalization. All of them were part of the second generation of immigrants. They don't live in no ghetto. Share free time with your Ripoll schoolmates. It is difficult to hear how they have radically changed the course of their lives and without anyone having been assigned, because it causes integration and radicalization processes to be compatible, with which it will be necessary to support all the collections working for integration, for coexistence and diversity, from the educational community, social educators, psychologists... They need pedagogical tools, detection protocols to prevent future cases and to reconvene, to reintegrate all the people they could have been part of during some time. In the case of Ripoll, we need to worry about the presence of radicalization agents, such as the imam, which can activate, accelerate and worsen young people's attitude and course until they become violent. It is also necessary to give maximum support to victims of tempts and their families, as well as to the families of terrorists, who also suffer and are victims of what happened. There's a lot of questions that are open, and they come all the way to the end, to know what failed. Why does an individual related to Spanish secrets become the leader of a terrorist cell that caused the deaths in Barcelona and Cambrils? What kind of paper did Satty have with the CNI? Why could Ripoll's young people do this? It is regrettable that the CNI seems to be more concerned with searching for ballot boxes and paperpapers than with following terrorist people. Since the Republican Group, together with Juntes for Catalonia and CUP - Constituent Creed, we have decided to present this proposal for a resolution to create a commission of inquiry to clarify what has happened, because citizens need and deserve answers. The commission of inquiry has as object the abst, the analysis and the investigation of the facts occurred on August 17 and 18, as well as its causes, antecedents, implications, participation, perpetuation and consequences. We need to clarify the situation, because we have many unanswered questions. I need to turn on the chain of communication and coordination between police forces about the imam to know what control measures existed over it and how they managed it. It is necessary to clarify all the shadows surrounding the case of the imam of Ripoll, and most of all the impediments that there have been from the Congress of Deputies and from the Government of the State in giving explanations, as explained by the company deputy Munell. Under the terms of the resolution proposal, one of the points of the basic contents of the committee of inquiry must be the analysis of institutional mechanisms for responding to the storms. Here it will be necessary to analyze the external communication policies of the storms, the public opinion that there was during the successive days, and the interns, the exemplary and recognized communication policy that the Mossos were hard to finish during August 17 and the subsequent days. It is also important to highlight the response of the Catalan society after these tragic successes, which was an absolute condemnation of the storms, but also with an exemplary, civic and non-xenophobic attitude. Because we are a society of peace and coexistence, we are a friendly people, open, proud of their diversity, because they will not be able to frighten us and keep us away, divide us or grow resentment or hate among us. We are a people's sun, we come from where we come, diverse and respectful. In the tragic terrorist attacks of August 17th in Barcelona and Cambrils, the great task that the Mossos d'Esquadra, the Urban Guard, the Local Police of Cambrils, more than the emergency services, health services, forensics, and all the support of the citizenry showed solidarity for what happened. From here, thank you to all of them. This great pocket of the Mossos has been recognized internationally, but certain means of communication and some political parties have wanted to discredit them by running false documents and false information. It is necessary to recognize and restore the good work of the Mossos, and the merit of whose head he was at the time of the storms, Major Trapero, today away from his duties to the head of the body, and which we have just learned that the National Court will prosecute Major Trapero for criminal seditification and organization. From our group, all strength and support to Major Trapero. [[Greetings.]] And also highlight the work, the pocket of Councillor Forn, today also locked in the prison of Estremera. It is punished for the good work they did and how they managed the situation, that is, for the correct performance that they did in the end. It is necessary for our police to have all the means at their disposal to deal with and ensure the safety of all the citizens of this country. That is why they have all the necessary effects, the resources that have denied them, and they can access the same information as any other police in Europe that is responsible for public safety. Because the security of Catalans and Catalans is worth it and needs the same tools as any other police thing. It is incomprehensible that it took eight years – with the PP government – to celebrate the Security Board..., which has prevented the Mosses from participating in the terrorist threat table or the CITCO. The total entry of the Squadron Mosses to Europol was also denied. And that's what we found at the 4_on_5 level of terrorist alert. Despite the lack of the body and the lack of information they had, the management of the Catalan police was effective and efficient, as a genuine police of the state. I would also like to point out that the Government of the Generality, on September 19th, approved the Citizenship and Migration Plan 2017-2020, a plan that is based on interaction in a diverse and cohesive society, the gathering, social inclusion of everyone and the struggle against hatred ideologies, a plan that was worked long before the storms, and that after August 17th also wanted to give an answer..., with a specific programme for the eradication of violent extremism, which is not only to be worked from the police's perspective, but also to be done from a more cross-cutting line, with the objective of preventing, detecting and intervening against the radicalisation processes that lead to violent extremism and to contemplating the ideologies of the government, with the aim of preventing, detecting and combating the processes of violence that lead to violent extremism and to the oppression of the government. We've got a lot of work to do. The creation of this commission of inquiry has to be used because it can clarify many existing doubts about the issue and can work on the measures and put the necessary tools for the future. We need to focus on defending freedom and equality as basic and common values of a model of coexistence among all people we have different origins, languages, cultures or religions. We live together and want to live together. We are a diverse people and we are a people with these common values, we will not change them, we will not divide them. Throughout the presentation, from the Republican Group we believe that the creation of this research committee is necessary and that is why we are asking for support for this proposal from the rest of the groups. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.119.0	Thank you, Mrs. Fornells. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the Lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.120.0	Thank you. Good morning, all of you. As has been said, the violence we experienced in that second fortnight of August was painful, sad and had a brutal impact on our lives, on our daily lives, on everything we know, on our beliefs. Those days we went out to say that we don't have for, that we're not willing to submetre 'in the doctrine of terror, of por, that rock won't make us claudiate and that in front of fascism and racism we say: not a step back. The worst thing that could happen to us as a society is to think that these events, as we have said, sad, painful and violent, the storms of August 17th... the worst thing that could happen to us is to think that they are something inexplicable, something, a phenomenon that sees, like what you say, fallen from the cell. Temptations are an unjustifiable barbarity, but they answer to some contexts, to some very concrete causes that we cannot and do not want to obviate if we want it not to repeat either Barcelona, Cambrils, Afrin or elsewhere. I make a parenthesis, because it's one day to remember the Kurdish people, who are a bastion of dignity, a barricade of honesty resist before genocide. And in this context, and as we only have five minutes, we would like, from the CUP - Constituent Creed, to highlight two of the objectives that we understand as the main and primordial ones in the investigation that will last to the end this commission that we propose to engineer machines. On the one hand, the analysis of the international geopolitical context, because, as they say, these violent facts do not come for inexplicable questions. Whether we place the emphasis on the causes, or on some of the causes of what is happening, we do not accept the tempts as a calamity, but as a phenomenon fruit of imperialism and which also allows us to explain how Islamophobia and gihadism are two phenomena that are feedback. And we are also talking about a Spanish government that was the protagonist of the Quartet of the Azores and of the illegal attack on Iraq in 2003; an attack that was justified with a lie, like weapons of mass destruction, that was followed by an occupation that anorated the Iraqi State and generated the embryo of Daesh; an attack, that of Government Aznar and Rajoy, to plunder the country's natural resources at the cost of more war and pain to Iraq and the region. This very government is the one that, together with the Spanish monarch, does arms deals on the planet. This geopolitics is a fact-culture camp like Barcelona and Cambrils, and they need to be investigated. A second question that we consider important and essential and that we should ask ourselves is what are the response mechanisms to situations such as those experienced in this study; response mechanisms, of a band, those of the popular organization, that of the solid response of the Alcanar, Tortosa, Barcelona anti-feixista, of the people of Ripoll, in order to make clear, despite the pain and the stupefaction, that all of us are Ripoll, that all of us are a people. And at that moment they did the strong color before a situation for which the community, the community, is prepared: to have to look at the eyes of barbarism, fanaticism, when secretly penetrates your home, your family, your school, your football team, your people. This popular and solidary response was a strong response, an anti-racist response, an anti-feixist response, because privateness can never become odi. This commission must be able to give answer to the multitude of questions that have remained unanswered, as has already been explained in the previous interventions: answers for the people of Ripoll, answers for the people of all the peoples of the world. And we also look at the institutional response mechanisms, as well as the investigation and discussion of extrajudicial executions. The deaths presented almost as inevitable and fruit of circumstances, without legal guarantee, call them into question. And I think in this committee, I insist, we talk about it. Finally, in this mark, we must eliminate from our language the false rhetoric about our values – European values, Western values – because it is perverse. Freedom, justice and equality are values of honest humanity and, of course, also of Muslims and Muslims. Fighting Islamophobia in all its manifestations is essential. With a committee in Parliament, it is clear that we will not do enough, but it is also clear that it is also a responsibility of this institution to carry out this investigation with the emphasis on the issues we have raised. The increase in Islamophobia is directly proportional to the expansion of Gihadism, but at times it feeds the barbaric argument of ISIS. Young European Muslims are the first victims of this reality. The radicalization process...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.121.0	Mrs. Sànchez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.122.0	... of terrorists – I finish – of Ripoll cannot hear'sense this confluence. Therefore, as we ask ourselves, we review ourselves and question ourselves absolutely everything. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.123.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. Then, to position himself, has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Lord Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.124.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I want to have an emotional record and re-honor to the victims of the Barcelona and Cambrils storms of August 17 and 18, 2017, and to express our solidarity and support for families and friends. We're talking about dead disset, fifty-two wounded, which might never have been produced. These tempts have not been the only or the first perpetrated by the Gihadist terrorists in Spain, but they have been the first to have been consumed since the tempts, the sad tempts of March 11, 2004 to the Community of Madrid. My record, therefore, for all the victims of terrorism, is what the terrorist dyria that has produced them is. They're all a very high price for a company like Spanish, which has been patenting terrorism for many years. There are also my recognizance words in the task that every day the members of the security forces and bodies develop, that they go for our security, guarantee our freedom and fight without fail against terrorism and organised crime. The groups that conform the separatist majority in this Parliament – most in discons, not in votes and social support – have achieved a historic ribbon: they have agreed, they have agreed on this wavering beginnings of the Dozene Legislature, even though it is not to serve their parliamentary majority to invest a president who can carry out the mandate to form and govern for all Catalans; it seems that for this reason it is time. But yes, they have agreed to promote the creation of this committee of inquiry into the storms of August 17 and 18, 2017 in Barcelona and Cambrils. The Ciutadans Parliamentary Group at the Congress of Deputies wanted to boost the creation of a committee of inquiry into the Barcelona and Cambrils storms, with a view to assessing how many more could be done in the fight against terrorism, with the ultimate aim of improving the security of all Spaniards – logically, inclusive Catalans. There was already a precedent: the commission of inquiry that was set up at the Congress of Deputies took away from the 11-M storms. The proposal was debated at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies on the 13th of February and was rejected, in this case for the deputies of the PDECAT, integrated into the Joint Group and, in this Parliament, in Junts per Catalunya, and the Republican Left of Catalonia. The CUP is not in Congress, but surely it would have voted no. Look, we were left alone with our proposal to set up a committee of inquiry into the timings presented here at the Congress of Deputies, because terrorism – we have to remember – the fight against terrorism is a matter of state. But you did not want the committee to open; as, of course, neither did you want socialists nor populars. It seems today that the Socialists, in this case, may support the creation of this committee with their vote in favour. I could have done it a few months ago at the Congress of Deputies, and it would already be working. [[Greetings.]] After the storms, the first days and the first weeks lived in Catalonia many moments of informational confusion, often dressed in apparent transparency. What was in charge of internal politics, Mr Joaquim Forn, was in contact with me, on my condition, then, as chairman of the Committee of the Interior of this Parliament, so as to convene an urgent session of this committee, the Committee of the Interior, in which he wanted to inform his Parliament of police action in relation to these events. But those who were in that legislature know it very well – the government of Mr Puigdemont closed down in the band and did not want to compare in his parliament; it was limited to the pressing wheels, to the best glory of the government and the prefecture. Citizens want transparency, all the transparency possible in questions as delicate and often reserved or secret as they are involved in the fight against terrorism. Therefore, we will not oppose the creation of this committee. We would have liked it if it had been done at the Congress of Deputies, which had been done with one final aim: to improve the coordination and effectiveness of the anti-terrorist struggle, so as to improve the security of all Spaniards. It can't be. But even if we don't oppose it, I have to tell you that from Citizens we see with concern the creation of this commission. We are concerned about the possible misuse of this parliamentary tool. We are concerned that, as has already happened in other committees, its instrumental purpose is to give rise to some prefixed conclusions; conclusions which, of course, some prominent members of the proposing parties have already made public, and even some have been allowed to attend the presentation of this request for creation. They'll say no, that's not what it's about. But, mirin, we have two precedents of a few months ago, of the previous legislature. From a band, the one you, Convergence and Esquerra, named the "Commission d'Investigació sobre l'Operació Catalunya", in which the whole commission was designed to shape its conclusions prior to the alleged conspiracy against the Generality. In this case, finally, Ciutadans did not want to be an accomplice of a commission that – now from the distance we can say with total certainty – was a major part of the real Catalonia operation: the time to democracy that you wanted to give to the end of the summer and this late past. A failed operation, however, that we are still paying for the consequences, with a social and emotional fracture that will cost a lot of time to continue, with an encouragement of economic growth and the flight of more than three_ thousand businesses, with a loss of opportunity, with the parking of the real political debate, which affects the essential services that must cover all Catalans: health, education, aid to dependence, occupation, access to a decent habitat, security and all the questions that really interest everyone and affect us all. But we also have the precedent of the Vidal committee, a committee that was approved by the plenary of this Parliament, but you, the members of Convergence and Esquerra, attached to a single parliamentary group the previous parliamentary term, boycotted it by emptying it and rejecting the work plan presented for the proposing groups, among which Citizens, without submitting an alternative proposal that did not give to the plenary of this Parliament. And they did it by following an argumental line that demonstrates, in my opinion, the purely instrumental use they make of these commissions. Mr Bernat Solé said literally, to argue why they boycotted the Vidal committee: "What is clear is that this committee has a very clear objective, it is intended for a very clear objective: to do the brute work of the prosecution. That is to say, the group's will for the Convergence of Puigdemont and the Left Junqueras was to avoid fulfilling one of the obligations of any Democrat, and more so if it is a representative of the citizens, as is the case: working together in all with justice, not obstructing its possible action. Obstructing that, for what you see these days, it has served you very little: the Vidal exjugation will have to face up to a process that seems to be very advanced and that everything points out that there can be heavy criminal consequences from its actions. But that's another question. Today we will not oppose it, but I am sure that we will not allow this commission to be used as an instrument to revive its separatist process. I stop taking the cat at once, I stop embolizing the exchange. The embolica-that-do-fort no longer serves the interests of Catalans, the Catalans have already made it clear that this is not what they want. We don't want it either, and it's very clear that we don't allow it either. Certainly, I would like to announce that with other groups of this chamber we will also promote the creation of another commission of inquiry, this yes, fully competent in this Parliament, about the political espionage that the government has made by putting together some agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. And, Mrs Fornells, tell him that in his majority, the Catalan society was actually exemplary after the storms. I participated in the two events, in Cambrils and in Barcelona, and I must say that there was an essential difference between the two events: that of Cambrils was fully exemplary, it was a clear manifestation of rebuking terrorist violence; that of Barcelona, unfortunately, saw an episode that I think should not be repeated and that there was international shame, of a misuse of popular will on the part of certain political formations. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.125.0	Thank you, sir... [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Mr. Alonso. It is now the return, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mr. Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.126.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, as some of the groups who have preceded me in the use of the word, and I assume that those who speak after the server will also do so, to have a pair of considerations or three, in concrete terms, three considerations that are likely to make them to you, the third of which is of a very personal character. The first is to add to this record of affection for all victims and this climb to their families, the people who were victims of this terrorist barbarism on the 17th and 18th of August in the cities of Barcelona and Cambrils. Therefore, a hug and all the scalp on this side of this chamber, without exception, I am not fully convinced. In the second place, before entering the subject, a second reflection: an explicit recognition and our support, from the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to Advance, to the Squadron Squadron and to the State's security and security forces, which are the spearhead of the fight against a war that attacks us, as has been seen in this case in particular, that has come disorientatedly to stay and that is doing us very badly. And, therefore, our support, our escalph in this anti-terrorist struggle, in this fight against the Gihadist expression that has done so badly to our surroundings and, particularly, therefore, to our home, to Catalonia. Also, the recognition, in this chapter, of all those people, therefore, who, from different organizations, particularly the EMS and all that it represented, attended the group of victims of this barbarism, therefore, with professionalism, with rigour and, above all, with humanity as they did. And, thirdly, I also want to make a point. This is the beak of a strictly personal perspective. I have been an advisor to the Department of the Interior and Soc to put myself on the skin of the Joaquim Forn and Major Trapero at the time of managing what has probably been the worst moment that has experienced the Squad's Stitch from the recovery of our self-government. And they did it, so, honestly, and they did it with a thorough personal delivery; they, as the most responsible, and the conjunction, in this case, the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And this... I want to do this recon before this chamber. I disagree with many things, therefore, with Joaquim Forn, but nothing prevents me from doing this grace, and I also have to say that I deeply regret the situation in which he finds himself, from pre-emptive detention, as a result of a judicial decision that I respect – concerning –, and I say so clearly, without sharing. That said, and coming into the matter of our own, our group's position respects the proposal for a committee of inquiry which is being carried out, from a first reading our conclusion is a ‘no', a ‘no', a ‘no' round. It is a ‘no', because we do not share many of the argumental threads that lead to this commission proposal, and therefore, from the outset, we would reject it. Now, for what reason? - For what reason? Basically, for two reasons, and some have been fencing and I would like to give an answer to what some groups have said. First of all, therefore, because an investigation commission in terms of how it came about... – and then I'll make a proposal, I think it's very constructive – in terms that it came up with can hardly contribute to moving forward in what they supposedly claim to be. Deia, the mayor of Ripoll and deputy of this chamber, therefore, may help in the suffering of families. A commission made in any way, such as a mermaid, forgiving the expression, of a television set, will not help to solve the pain of the families, of all who suffer, of all the people who have lived with anguish. We believe that this is not the best way, in short, to do it. Certainly, there may have been, there may have been – certainly – dysfunctions, there may have been injustices, but we do not believe that the best way to solve it is to blow it off in the four winds. For this reason and for another reason: we are ahead of one of the threats – which, moreover, has come, I insist, to stay – harder than we have as societies to our security, and therefore to our freedom. And it seems to us that if we're adults, and I honestly believe that we are, we can't go on exhibiting according to what's bad, according to what's disagreeable – which we probably can be – and make judgments on aspects, so we'll end up giving reason to the adversary we share, which is terror. And we believe, therefore, that it is not opportune in the terms that stood up, to do this commission in this way. We can't take it from our perspective. Third, it seems important to me and we would like to share it with the chamber, and it is that the complexity of the Gihadist phenomenon can be faced from many perspectives, and must be faced from many perspectives. And surely there are some areas– and I say this with this clarity, and I am a member of this chamber– that are more efficient, more effective, better qualified and more expert in solving some of the questions that have been raised in this chamber. And I'll remind you of some of them, because they're in, organizations, institutions, agreements that exist. There's an anti-gihadist pact. I also want to see the chamber that it is curious that the three groups that propose this commission are not signatories to the Antigihadist Pact. We, our parliamentary group, the two expressions of the parliamentary group, both the Socialist Party and Junts per Avançar, are both signatories and part of this agreement, along with other groups, obviously, of this chamber. This is an environment. There are other areas, that of the National Court, which is doing its work, which is our competence in judicial matters, to investigate from the perspective, in this judicial case, everything that has to do with terrorism. There are other areas, such as the Security Board of Catalonia – it has been mentioned here – and it is a fraction of all, in which I have a share of responsibility, that for many years it has not been possible to gather. It's another area. There are established and pre-established, legislated, regulated, collaborative, co-operation between police units. So, what would you like to pass on to them from our perspective? That a parliamentary commission of inquiry can't supply all of these things in any way. They cannot fulfill the judicial responsibilities that are debated in their courts, responsibilities that are in themselves or between them or in other areas. And, therefore, this is a consideration that we, in some way, believe that we should respect; this space, therefore, that it should be, for the judicial sphere, we believe that we should respect these spaces that must be, of internal analysis of the same things, and know very well the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra to know that it is certain that they are being done and that a critical analysis has been carried out in order to correct all those things that are obviously better. We believe that we must continue to respect and continue to feel and that it is an appropriate _framework to convey that quality information that we deserve, we deserve the political leaders, that we have the responsibility to control, in the end, the governments and the action of these, as is the anti-gihadist Pact. This is a suitable and perfectly valid _frame. And, therefore, we in no way can assume, in no way can we accept that this commission was or was intended to replace these things. As we can't accept it in any way – we can accept it in any way – so it's gone on this committee as it is after all some of the interventions with the conclusions already written. We're not going with this whole thing. This committee will approve because there are enough votes to do it, the proponents only have enough to do it. Who is our proposal then? Our proposal is very much in line with that on 6 September 2017, at the first plenary session, which was held just after these cruel Gihadist attempts at the cities of Barcelona and Cambrils, Miquel Iceta, as president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, said to the President of the Generality – I read it literally –: "I would suggest the creation of a committee of experts that can work with full independence and discretion to assess the combination of mechanisms that we have available to the Government of Catalonia and the Catalan administrations to prevent and combat terrorism. I would not suppose in any case – said Miquel Iceta – supporting the government of parliamentary control – that is not it – it would be a clear signal to the citizenry, that there are fears that we want to place over political debate, that there are fears that we want to work together, despite the political climate – and I remember what the context was, that it was 6 September of the past year – sometimes I cannot accompany. The President's answer was, in this sense, explicit: "I thank him for his proposal," said President Puigdemont. "I think he's on the right track, I think that's what it is to do. Unfortunately, it was just in the realm of words and we couldn't continue on this path. But this is the hope that we move ahead of this proposal. And, therefore, if we have had a conversation with all the parliamentary groups and it seems to us that this is feasible and we believe that this will be possible, so declare all part, all part that is sensitive to this committee, so declare it reserved. And let's not confuse it: the reservation is not free opacy, it's respect for people, it's respect for victims and it's collective intelligence. And if they want to, let's say we feel that we also need collectively to... Therefore, this is the feeling of our vote, and we are able to modify it, to modify this criterion and to give support to the creation of this committee, because we believe, therefore, in that agreement that we have made with the different parliamentary groups, in this pre-agreement that we have to declare a good part of these interventions reserved, all those that have to do with the sensitive police matter. And I believe that, if we do so, we can move forward, without prejudice, because they will not bring us in place, and with the noble hope of control, certainly, of the government, of respect for the different powers of the state of law, of respect for the victims of this misery and sacre of Gihadist terrorism and doing a good service, in short, to the country's conjunction. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.127.0	Thank you, Mr. Swordler. [[Greetings.]] It is now the return of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can ; return of Mr Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.128.0	Thank you, President. It would be good for this parliamentary chamber to begin this debate today at the height of the answer given by the people of Catalonia to the Barcelona and Cambrils storms of August last year. The people of Catalonia gave an answer without, an inclusive response, a follow-up response to victims, and before the world made it clear that we are a country and a democratic people and that before the barbarism we do not answer with more barbarism, but we answer with more democracy. And, therefore, it would be good if we were at the height of this. The storms of Barcelona and Cambrils, obviously, have had some hard material and psychological effects in our country and beyond. There are other situations in London, Berlin, Paris, but also in cities that don't remember their names, where they still live today thousands and thousands of men and Muslim women. And, obviously, we must do all this in a treatment of the pain of the victims and their relatives, to whom we can never forget, to whom we must respect and to whom we must honor. And I'm also doing it with my intervention. And we also need to do this in an analysis of the global socio-political context, the geopolitics that impose scenes of terror from the world, and today we know that the tropes to Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria or Libya, we end up paying them with blood. And we never have to forget these facts, when we sometimes take some of these decisions. We also have to go from the religion debate, because what we're doing here is not a religion debate. We must approach the concrete circumstances that have led to the radicalisation of these people, and we must respond, above all, as Professor Joan Anton-Mellón says, to the barbarism with no less, but with more democracy, because democracy is the only possible security. And remember, too, that the Synod of Greuges, last November, presented an interesting report on the prevention of radicalisation and terrorism, which I recommend to all the deputies and deputies that the Legeixin, because it is really worth it. That said, we will vote in favour of this committee, but we will vote in favour with concern, which we need to clear here and now publicly, and we hope that they will be the only place and the only time we need to remember them. We will be vigilant in that it is not made, by this commission, a partisan; it would be a difficult political mistake. We'll be vigilant with demagogic in security issues; demagogic is not good for kings, but in security issues it's an explosive bomb. And so, obviously, it's irresponsible to link Finland to Ripoll, because they have nothing to see. And, obviously, we want a committee that is not linked to the process, because here we are talking about something else, and we would also criticise that a committee that looks like it is also linked to anti-independence; it would be another irresponsibility that can be assimilated to this issue. And, therefore, we want to prevent these things. Obviously, we must be aware that this issue that we are discussing is under a judicial process that has decreed a secret summary. And we'll find that police officers won't be able to answer the questions we ask the committee, because they can't, under the secrecy of summary, reveal certain information. We are already asking here, and we will continue to repeat to the committee, that there are aspects that are not dealt with by the committee, but that are dealt with in another parliamentary committee, which is that of secrets. Because the secrets, the important thing is not that they are secrets, but that they deal with aspects that are important in security, in security environment. And we don't convert, as Swordler said very well, this commission on a TV set, because we would be doing a little favor to security and a little favor to Parliament. I, finally, ask for rigor. Some things we've heard have little rigor; we'll talk about them. We do not convert security policies into a media spectacle; I repeat, it will not bring us more security and it will not bring us a prestige of this parliamentary chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.129.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. It's Mr. Xavier García Albiol's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.130.0	Yes, thank you. Good morning, everybody. I'll start my own, too..., my intervention, as it can't be in any other way, with the record of family members and victims of those storms that shook Barcelona, Catalonia, last August. I have to confess, I have to be honest... when I saw the young man, the proposal that you, the independenceist majority, made, didn't just hear. He didn't see the motive, he didn't see the reason why, eight months after the storms, this proposal for the creation of the commission of inquiry was presented. It is obvious that I sinned in good faith, and I sinned in good faith because, after listening to the intervention of the independence majority – not of the rest of the groups, beyond our differences, but of the independence majority – it is clear that the only will, the one you are looking for with the creation of this commission of investigation is to follow settled in the conflict and, in this case, to want to entangle with this commission and create a conflict or good institutional or good between the security things. As I said, this proposal from the People's Party seems extemporaneous to us, eight months later, because, among other questions, at the length of these months, we have not seen any elements that should lead us to the creation of a political commission from the Parliament of Catalonia to investigate those terrible facts. I want to remind them that the times are already being investigated, and are being investigated where they are responding, which is through the courts, on the part of the security forces of our country. And, as I say, therefore, we see no other argument that it is not the clear will to open a new front, the clear will to remain installed in the conflict, in this case, eh? In such a delicate aspect as security and the facts that passed last August. I would ask you that these efforts, this dedication that you make to it, with proposals like today that you are bringing us to debate, the devotees, their attention, their intellectual effort, the devotees to the problems that really worry and occupy the citizens of Catalonia and that are the competence of this chamber. I would like to see the majority of the independentist present a proposal to set up a commission of inquiry into why, as it is possible that there are 710,000 people in Catalonia at these times who are on the waiting list to be attached to public health. I would like to see independent parties present without a proposal to set up a commission to settle at once for all thousands and thousands of children in Catalonia who do not continue to study in barracks, as happens at these times, and who can have some classes on condition to be able to do their studies. These are real problems, which affect the day-to-day and which are the competence of the Members and the Members we are here today. But this committee that you're proposing to us, which, as I say, is trying, which you're going to look for with all security..., and I don't like to be neither python nor do I have to guess, huh? But I have the absolute conviction that what you're looking for is looking for that conflict, which is the least needs Catalonia at these times. Mirin, looking for the politics of what he spent the month of August in Barcelona and other places in Catalonia, are mistaken. They're wrong because here it's not that if the police, the Civil Guard, the CNI or the Mossos... I want to remind them that, if the tempts were to be on the 17th, the 16th there was an explosion, in example, to Alcanar, to the famous shawl, with a hundred chocolates of buta, and the Mossos d'Esquadra said that there was an accidental explosion, that it was a question of gas accumulation; and not for this reason we would point out a safety thing that is trying to do his job well. And, therefore, some of the interventions, as I said, which you have produced here today, we believe are totally contradictory. Look, we'd make them, I'd make them a last priority; and I do them with all sincerity, not as politically, but as a person, as a person who has lived a lot of favor, under circumstances, for my previous responsibilities as Mayor of Badalona – I've already ended up, Mr. President – having to be with family members who have suffered the consequences of an accident. The best we could do for these families that we've all had in memory is leave these seven people behind who were murdered. Do not insist on remembering the pain of the family members who have suffered and seen as some of their family members died, was murdered in this storm. Stop looking for conflict where at these moments there is only sadness and pain, which is in the color of their family members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-05-0501.131.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Call it a vote. If there is any separate motion for a vote... [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Long break.]] Well, then, let's proceed to the vote. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 92 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. The session's up.
