ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.1.0	Good morning, deputies; counselor; good morning to everyone. [[Agrarian Law Proposal (totality debate)]] [[202-00026/12]] We're still on the order of the day. In this case, with the eighth point, which is the total debate on the proposed land law. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, and insofar as it is a joint initiative for four parliamentary groups, we shall open a single five-minute presentation round for each proposed parliamentary group. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Lord Óscar Ordeig. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.2.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, good day; members of the Government; heads of agricultural unions, heads of the Federation of Cooperatives, people in the sector, in general. On behalf of the Socialist Group, we will present today, defending the need to process and approve, once and for all, after so many attempts, the Law of Agrarian Spaces, together with the groups that propose it. I think that this was a good example to try to go to one, every one with its model, every one with its criticisms of what doesn't work, and every one trying to stop to have a powerful agri-food sector. I will highlight three things, three aspects. First of all, let's be late. I believe that we will all agree that the political instability of the past few years, that the electoral call, the electoral advance, therefore, has created a very clear damage. And today we have an example: the Law of Agrarian Spas, which began to deal with 2015, in Pelegri presented a proposal, was not able to approve; that 2017 we made a debate to the totality of the Law of Agrarian Spas that, as there was electoral advance, we were not able to approve and that, today, we re-start this parliamentary process, 2018. Let's hope that this time, yes, counsel, deputies and deputies, that we can approve it at once, because the processing begins, but as we don't have much off, let's hope – this time yes – that I allow us to finish the Law of Agrarian Spades. A law that the sector claims, a law that is necessary, but a law that is not enough to solve all the challenges that we have ahead, all the problems that the sector has. So let's be late. According to the point, it is obvious that it is a necessary law; it is a law that claims the sector; it is a law that asks us, with the demand for food that will grow, until 2050, that is expected to produce 70_percent more food, more quantity, more quality of food, and, above all, not much of the culture that we have at these times. Therefore, it will be necessary to produce more food, to produce them safely and at the same time, to innovate in technological innovation, in scientific innovation, in order to try to make it more productive and efficient. And more so, do it in a sustainable way, as called for in the 2030 Agenda. We have a problem, and it is that they have abandoned themselves, in the last years, since 2001 they have abandoned 10 % of the cults of our country. And that's a problem. Therefore, as the agri-food sector grows, we are one of the most competitive regions in Europe in agri-food production, which has exported, which has endured the crisis better. That, moreover, generates very positive synergisms at the level of territorial cohesion, and that, obviously, we have some difficulties of injustices, we have some difficulties of territorial distribution that we need to focus on. 65_percent of the surface of Catalonia is forest; 21_percent of the surface of Catalonia is culture and 7_per_cent is pasture. And it can't be that we don't have any regulation that you define, protect agricultural spaces, urban spaces, peri-urban spaces, and, above all, that you protect and define these surfaces, protect them, potential them, and not all from an urban development, totxo development optic. This would also help us to ensure territorial cohesion that we claim once and for all. Many people are disappearing, many cults are abandoning themselves, and this generates a loss of honest people, a cultural loss, a heritage loss and an irreparable historical loss. Every town, every territory that is abandoned, apart from then passing on to us this from the saving fauna and the increase of the damage to the cult, from the increase of the traffic accidents, that we have already claimed several times... but also, obviously, an irreparable cultural loss. Therefore, because of the fact that they go to a register, the Administration acts as an intermediary to facilitate young people, women and people who want to carry these cults, which they can do. Therefore, we defended it, but we also said that there was not enough. In political, advisory, parliamentary, and cross-cutting policies supporting the sector: crisis of prices, regs, paths, fiber optics, health services, education, which directly or indirectly affect the sector and the people who live in it. Fauna rescue, as I said, retailing or strategic reversals, less adverse regulation – which also affects. Therefore, there is not enough with the law, it is positive, but we need a step further. I, obviously, an economic game. Forest and forestry policy is paramount, as well as investing in R & D & I. So, in summary: let us hope that there are no elections, that the law will be approved. The law is good, but not good enough. The third and final point: the viability and continuity of farms and the future of rural development will depend, above all, on cross-cutting, comprehensive public policies which are thought from the agri-food sector, which are thought from the territory. Many thanks, president, deputies, deputies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it's the turn of Mrs. Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. First of all, our parliamentary group would like to thank the trade unions and sections for their work and insistence on bringing this law back to Parliament, which was unable to vote in the last parliamentary term and which can now, by the way, be dealt with thanks to the support of the majority of Parliament. Moreover, we are glad that this Parliament has been able to agree on this issue so important for Catalan citizens and, in particular, for the rural world. Around one of the 3.2 million hectares that make up the surface of Catalonia, it is possible to consider land of cultivation. But our territory suffers, day by day, a major loss of agricultural areas, both in those areas where economic activities are developed, as in those areas where supposedly agricultural constructions have been developed, such as Casa Ametller, to set an example; infrastructures that are not necessary, such as some of the fragments, still pending, of the Fourth Belt, stones, or some projects that have been executed recently and that have destroyed sentient trades as it has been in the case of Salou. For this reason, we are still aware that we cannot remain solely with this law, but we must go much further in this matter. We understand that this law will be able to establish a basis for being able to provide Catalonia with a regulation that allows planning and action, taking into account the agricultural and rural sector, to recognize it as a food producer, a balancer of the territory and a social cohesioner. It is time that the Generalitat began to implement plans to curb the problem of territorial imbalance. It is important that it imposes measures to bet on a more sustainable agro-ecological model, that it is placed on a model that serves to preserve the land, land of conreu, pastures, forestry..., the different natural ecosystems and biodiversity, as a common good of Catalans and Catalans, as a structure to guarantee food and to ensure the sustainability of the historical agricultural territory, and not as a commodity in the hands of the greats or of the agro-industry. That is why, with this law, we must define the agricultural areas and be able to identify those that have a high agricultural value, with the aim of preserving them and putting in place the mechanisms that allow the land to be mobilized in waste. This will now have to be established with the greatest guarantees and transparency in order to keep the maximum number of agricultural areas in production conditions, so as to advance in the matter of food sovereignty; ensure the sustainable management of the environment and promote the generational replenishment, and make it easier for young people to become part of the agricultural activity, as well as the dimension of the professional operations that I need. In addition to allowing a distribution of the territory, there are some difficulties to coexist together, which can mark spaces, or reserves for various species or activities. On the other hand, this law will recognise the existence of agriculture in the urban environment, as well as its functions: environmental and social benefits. Open the possibility to regulate and boost this activity will benefit the general Catalan population. From then on, the Generalitat has to work to keep peri-urban spaces alive and get Catalonia to count on great experiences like the Parc Agrari del Baix Llobregat, which counts on a high quality product. This law will recognize those good agricultural practices, and the set of techniques and agricultural-oriented strategies, focused on ensuring sustainability... – well, I thought they were two minutes, it's see that they're five – I mean that it's important, that the law is good, but if we don't have it, the rules don't do it in time, it'll be paper milled. And I think it's a shame, because the rural world needs the money... and this law. All right, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, it's the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group, through Mrs. Irene Fornos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.6.0	Thank you, President, members of the Bureau, advisers, Members, Members of Parliament, good morning to everyone. Well, after almost one year, we've got here... better said, we'll be here again and we can talk about the long-agrarian law of Catalonia. A law that we could already dispose of if you hadn't been for the application of 155 by the Spanish Government which, although many who don't like to hear it, might remember that 155 also left behind the continuity of this law; many of whom, in this room, already know, because they were present, there was support because they were pulled forward and many of whom later also gave support to that 155. Well, I'm here today, and obviously, I can't help but take advantage of this intervention to remind Agriculture Councilwoman Meritxell Serret, a political exile, who is surely following us today. And thank him for the good work done, for what he does to the Law of Agrarian Thickness, which we are talking about here today. Thank you very much, Counselor, we want you home. [[Greetings.]] To continue talking about the Law of Agrarian Spaces, I would like to begin by quoting a few sentences of some article published in a magazine of the agrarian field, for one of the main representatives of the agrarian world, Mr. Joan Caball, president of Unió de Pagesos, to whom I take advantage, also, to greet, and all the other representatives of the agrarian world, who are following us. In his article, he commented, published a law... when he published it, the law had not yet entered his parliamentary office. And, concretely, he was talking to us about the opportunity, the opportunity that he assumed for the whole sector, which then was only a scrap of what the Law of Agrarian Spades would be. And he said, concretely: "Now we have the opportunity to launch a law that, on July 3, 2017, was approved for the agricultural table, and I think this is important for us to be present. He also reminded us, as has already been stated here, that it is very important and necessary that it is pulled before this law, and that it has already been tried many times, the Agrarian Territorial Plate of Catalonia, of 1983, where it was already talked about all this; the Agrarian Orientation Law, of 2001; the full monograms on the agrarian world, 2010-2014, and, as we have already named, the previous legislature and the current legislature, in which we speak again. The Law of Agrarian Spaces, a law that has to give legal coverage where there is no law now. One law, the object of which is to order the management of agricultural areas in Catalonia and to design the necessary mechanisms to give legal security to the owners of agricultural holdings, the purpose of which, among others, must be the preservation and protection of agricultural areas, including as a factor in the production of food – before the other companies of the parliamentary groups have commented on it. And here it is emphasized that the FAO tells us that it will be necessary to multiply and increase the production of food, and more so, if we take into account that 20_percent of these must be produced in our agrarian areas, then the importance of preserving the available arable land and predicting its expansion as far as possible, with the main objective of relaxing the maximum level of food sovereignty both at global and local level. A law that must promote the continuity of agricultural, timber and forestry activity, increase its efficiency and efficiency, protect areas of high agricultural value, promote generational networking, ensure biodiversity and management of the different natural ecosystems, which are the basis for the development of the 2030 Agenda. A law that will imply a qualitative leap in the preservation of the agricultural soil and that establishes that it is necessary to elaborate the territorial agricultural plan of Catalonia. A law that will also regulate the peri-urbanity of agricultural activity and the management of unused or abandoned estates. In Catalonia we have 3,2 million hectares of land, of which 21,6_percent of water and dry land, 7_per_cent are pastures and 64_per_cent are forest. According to the map of Catalonia's habitats, there are 45,000_hectares of abandoned conreus, which ends up assuming the 1,4_per_cent of the Catalan surface. If we take into account its quantitative importance, from a territorial point of view, a substantial regulation is required so that agricultural areas have the recognition of their values and are endowed with the regulation that corresponds to them. Look, the pages of Catalonia, since the year 2000, have lost up to ninety thousand hectares of their land. The law of agricultural space, therefore, is necessary, and we urgently need it to be put into operation. It has already been said, it has the consent of most political groups, that they want to throw it forward and debate it in our committees, and also throughout the world of the agricultural sector – Union of Pages, Young Farmers and Ramaders of Catalonia, Federation of Cooperatives of Catalonia, Center of Forest Property and Foundation of the Rural Land – and also, obviously, has the support of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia and Fisheries. Finally, I would like to quote again one of the sentences of that article that I started talking about, in which he said: "Political forces in Parliament have the height of their sights to get this legislature to have the law of agricultural areas. Now's the time. Make this opportunity possible, don't let it pass. He referred to the previous legislature, which, as we have said, Article 155 did not allow. Now let's get back to the opportunity. They owe it to the sector, they owe it to the country. Make it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it's the turn, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Mr. Marc Solsona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.8.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, advisors, members of the department, representatives of the agricultural sector, deputies, deputies, very good day to everyone. Well, as was said, in five minutes it is very difficult to make a monogram on the agrarian world; therefore, we would try to censure what we brought here today, which is the law of agrarian thickets, and, therefore, to give it our position as a parliamentary group of Juntes for Catalonia. An intervention that is right, therefore, from this journey to the proposition... to the totality of the proposition of this law. And we would say a sequence of questions on this subject. First of all, we understand that it is a proposal of law that faces an important strategic challenge, as it is, u, the protection of the soil and uses of the agricultural soil, and two, to generate an urban and technical framework with criteria of agrarian priority in order to stimulate its production and guarantee it the existence and persistence of new models of space, of management of this type of space. A proposal by the law which, at its presentation of motius, basically faces two important challenges, such as, as has been said, the issue of forecasting the FAO report for 2050, which calls for the need to increase the production of food in the world by 70_percent, and also with evidence that there are 45,000 hectares of abandoned conreus in Catalonia, which accounts for 1.4_percent of the Catalan surface. Therefore, therefore, counsel, it is a complex law. I'd say it's a hard-to-apply law, and it's also unfolding. But sometimes it's a law that, perhaps after a lot of debate and a lot of consensus, it's easier for us to approve it here, in its parliament, than to deploy it. And that denotes bravery, grab a rep that we have ahead of us, capital. And, therefore, the fact that the councillor, the former, with the Councillor Serret, and now with you, take this turn for my denotation of courage and an important assumption of risks at a time of certain complexity; therefore, from here on our happiness is already advancing. It's complex, but when it's deliberate, consensual, and then, too, claimed for the sector, let's just say that it can be easier at the time of being able to develop and cope with it. It is a law that asks everyone; therefore, it gives a character that is not strictly sectoral, but that this law is a law, we could say, cross-cutting and multi-institutional, because different actors have to participate to make it possible. Therefore, we understand that at the level of the agricultural sector, of the agricultural world, it is an advanced law, and also with a point of modernity, despite the fact that we have recovered some practice that had perhaps been abandoned over the years. A law with an urban language. And this may sometimes seem contradictory. Therefore, it is also one of the reptiles of this standard. And, therefore, because we are talking about territorial planning, we are talking about territorial land planning in Catalonia, specific sectoral land planning, urban planning, environmental protection, municipal planning plans, etc., therefore, it is a law that, if I may, has a disruptive character at the time of planting the usual dynamics of soil protection. A law that seeks to bring solutions and future to different problems that we can find, such as the succession process or generational replenishments in the camp, in the agrarian world, and also, at times, as we have said, the abandonment of these agricultural holdings. A law that places land alone in a situation – and I think this is very important and we have to prioritize – with a consistent appreciation of the same only before different urban criteria, mostly and traditionally, with a more urban character. Therefore, here too, to put accents on this conception. A law that also contemplates a new catal model of agrarian and agro-ecological land, from the creation – difficult, but it has to be possible – of this register of plots of agricultural land, let's say, in disuse. In short, a law that we understand they claim, with a clear vocation and starting from a very accurate and very realistic analysis of reality, to legislate to recover and, above all, to preserve and stimulate the productive capacity of our agricultural sector. Therefore, it is a law of the future, that is fine, that is positive, and we understand that it must be deployable. We exercise full competence in agriculture, which depend on us, and we do so in all its magnitude. And, therefore, it is known with this law, that it is ambitious, complex people and that it looks forward. Therefore, here there are no cotillas of nothing or nothing, but we look at how we want to manage ourselves as the country in the face of the future. We value it and we take it into account, and we hope it will be that way. But also, as it is the exercise of our sovereignty, as the competence of agriculture, let us hope that no one, all the consensus that I hope there is in this room with this law..., we have no surprise at the time that it is passed on to other legal institutions. So, we understand that we're starting a long way, and we're already coming from the moon, but I hope that... the future is closer, and we'll get out of it, sure. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and since there are no totalities, he has the word, to fix his position on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. Francisco Javier Domínguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.10.0	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Counselor, deputies and members of the department who have come. We'll start with the background. On the 83rd, the Law on Territorial Policy has already said that the General Territorial Plan of Catalonia should include the definition of land of agricultural or forestry uses of special interest which may be conserved or extended; and it remains here, no more. We have to go to 95, when the General Territorial Plan is approved, which lists a number of sectoral territorial plans that need to be developed: infrastructure, sanitary equipment, etc. I do not mean that we are at 18, and the only sectoral territorial plan that has not been made is that of agricultural interest alone. We're about thirty-five years late, more or less. But talking, talking, it's been talked about a lot, and so has this Parliament. At the 2010 monogram it was agreed that it was necessary to protect the soil from agricultural uses, to guarantee sufficient soil for agricultural use of quality, to protect agricultural spaces of high value before the rest of uses, from urban and industrial, and, very important, to include agricultural impact studies, urban projects and infrastructure. And it's very important because, if you're doing environmental impact studies and we're already used to it and we see it as normal, it's essential that you normally do agricultural impact studies, so as to reduce or eliminate the impact that infrastructure or urban projects have on agricultural farms, branches, or Regs installations, or rural roads. They also called for 2010 to develop the Agrarian Sectoral Territorial Plan. And 2010 was already a good time to provide the law with the necessary human and presuppositional resources; and that's important, to provide the law with the necessary human and presuppositional resources. And we get to the 2014 monogram, where the same situation is repeated again and it's all left behind a little bit more. And so we can get to now, 2018. Today is a proposal for the 2017 agricultural law, which has fallen, which was already the evolution of a 2015 agricultural law project, which has also fallen. But if we all agree, why didn't it happen before, this law, if we all agree with the agricultural sector? So remember the most important issue for the government in 2015, what was it? The trial. Let's remember what the government was worried about in 2017: the unilateral declaration of independence. And now, 2018, what is the government's main objective? The Republic. Well, now, thank you very much to Catalonia in Comú Can and to the Socialists we have this proposal for law, which is actually nothing more than an equal version of the 2015 project. For the sake of the sector, we hope that it can be handled with normality, that it can be corrected with papers from all the groups in the process of being questioned and that it will finally come up with a law that can be put into effect. From the outset, our group has preferred it to be arranged as a bill, because it is a rather important bill because the government directly owes it. We'd have more guarantees, the relevant reports, the dictates and some terms of public exposure, which isn't like that right now. As you know, we have not presented the whole issue, but by responsibility, because we really believe that this is an important and necessary law. But we're talking about this one already. There are two large blocks, big concepts: the whole group of articles that talk about the protection of agricultural areas, and a second block, which is the title sisè, which is about agricultural farms in waste, for their recovery from agricultural activity. The articles in the first block describe concepts, the object of the law and the purposes. This is about land planning, the analysis of land use in farms, information systems to protect spaces, delimitation of infrastructure in agricultural areas, detection and location of peri-urban land activity, among other things. And the second block defines what is considered a waste parcel; it identifies these parcels and makes them an inventory, creates a waste parcel register and regulates all the management of these parcels. But there's also a lot of shortcomings in this one. First of all, it's not really about sustainability. It could be interpreted that it is very much persecuting the quantity and does not improve the quality. And it does not refer, for example, to economic production or to qualified or protected designations of origin, among other things. Later, when it comes to agricultural infrastructure, it is not easy to find land or land-concentration jobs. Specifically, these two great themes fell from the 2015 law. In this law, these two concepts which are so important for agriculture are not relevant. In fact, in relation to the 2018-2020 Watercourse, we are already registering a request for an appearance – already the announcement here – of the councillor so that we can get up to date with the compliment state of the 2018-2020 Watercourse. But the great lack, the great lack of this law is the prediction of its presuppositional impact. I do not believe that I can do everything that is regulated in this law without affecting the agricultural premise; I do not believe that. Or, in other words, I think that without a presuppositionary prediction this law will not be able to develop. And that has a lot to do with the agricultural policies that this government can bring to fruition to develop the law. According to the law, the department will have to characterize all and each of the agrarian spaces. You'll have to establish which of them are spaces of high agricultural value. It will be useful to develop and process land planning. Similarly, specific land plans. It will also be necessary to develop analysis of land use and its processing; the impact of POUMs; the impact of natural space management plans, and urban or infrastructure projects. The Department of Agriculture will also have to design, implement and manage a whole system of information and surveillance of the state of the agricultural areas. It will also have to identify and delimit areas with peri-urban agricultural activity, and, among other tasks, the department will also have to draw up an inventory of rural roads. And the title is still missing. Is it going to be necessary to create the register of disused plots... how is it that public land alone is not the first to enter this register? Let's force the private and the public to be the example. We will have to create intermediation mechanisms, establish the income of logging, manage requests, calls, etc. Does it seem to me or is it a tremendous task? Indeed, in my humble opinion, this cannot be done without an important budget behind. Is it possible that this law will actually fall as well? Or, if it is finally approved, will we have the resources available to develop the? In a few weeks we will see if it is reflected in the agricultural budgets and we will see the real interest of the government in the actual development of the protection of agricultural areas. And finally, I want to sum up three important ideas, which is that this law of agricultural spaces is essential and we support it, even if it comes with a tremendous delay – because the last governments were in the process and other issues – even if it comes in the form of a proposal and not a bill with all the guarantees, we will already try to make amendments and correct the one and the best possible law. And I wanted to say that the current great challenge of the rural world is precisely to correct the depopulation, because we are not in the phase of retaining the current population, but we must encourage people from other areas to come and settle down. We already know that this tool is not the definitive or the only one, but it can help attract agricultural entrepreneurs from other sectors. And finally, please, this government has to see this law as a priority, not only the Department of Agriculture but the entire government, and prevent it from staying in a drawer like so many other laws. If they really believe that this law is necessary, they allocate human and economic resources to develop it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the Lady Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.12.0	Well, good morning, thank you very much. Someone said: "After a year at the top. It's been said, but this is what I read or this bill proposal up thirty-five years later. Since the approval of the Law of Territorial Policy of 83 – I insist that it has been said –, the year I was born..., thirty-five years later, this country has passed without any instrument to preserve the soil and the agrarian spaces. And it's funny, because that happened just in the period of the country's urban growth and infrastructure. In fact, in the last thirty-five years, we have transformed and engineered more territories than in the two-thousand years before. Casualities. How is it possible that until the year 2018, well, the 17, when this law proposal was restarted and pushed forward, so there is no protection of agricultural areas? Agrarian spaces, good agrarian spaces, are usually located next to urban spaces, which have precisely been located in these areas historically for the fertility of these lands. And we could say that there was no political interest in protecting these spaces, because precisely these spaces are the most succulent for urban growth. We could say, therefore, that the result of a predetermined inaction of the governments of the last thirty-five years – twenty-three years of Convergence and also the seven years of the tripartite – there was no political interest in preserving the agricultural areas, precisely the most sensitive to their geographical situation. It is no accident, therefore, that of the dynus sectoral territorial plans that gave the law of 95 that were to be made, precisely it was this one that remained pending. It's not random. We regret the country's best lands and we understand that they are a basic and essential resource to guarantee food sovereignty. Preserving agrarian soil is not an eccentricity of four ecologists or four hippies or four apocalyptic or four pages. It's not eccentricity. It is a basic need that we have to do and that we have to have with the country, to guarantee its viability as a society, to be able to feed us. It's pretty basic, isn't it? Catalonia is only sovereign in a 30_per_cent, alimentarily. We are only able to produce the food set we need in a 30_per_cent. If we want to be viable, if we want to live, if we want to be sustainable, we should be able to generate 70 percent of the food we eat. From this perspective, we understand this law of agrarian space as a tool that should be used to absolve this food sovereignty, which is not just like the CUP but only as society and as the country. Food sovereignty is based on very simple principles: local agricultural production; access to land in a fair and balanced manner; control over land, therefore, fight against transgenics; right from the page to produce quality food; production of proximity to fair prices, both for pages as for users and, therefore, it is necessary from this point of view a genuine agricultural reform that steps to produce a lot of different few products, in order to allocate them basically to export, to produce the necessary quantity of many different products destined for the supply of proximity markets. Preserve agricultural soils to absolve food sovereignty, basically. We have demanded this law and its parliamentary procedure. In fact, the past legislature, on more than one occasion, we pushed it with different motions. Since the CUP - Constituent cry we can rejoice that thirty-five years later, or thirty-five years later..., the need to have this law. In part we might be able to be, but if we look at the contents they propose to us today, from our point of view we are very far away from the strategic goals of food sovereignty that the country needs and that we defend and that we push. Better late than never, but let's not forget that forty years of autonomous policies serve the speculators' interests that this is coming too late. An evidence of what autonomy has been, politics where the sovereigns and the ability to decide are limited to the logic of the political old, that of the despots, that of the hollowed interests, that of speculation. The land is not to speculate, but the land is to work it, the land is to live. Therefore, today is very appropriate to say: visca la terre! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia renounces its turn. Therefore, an intervention by the Councillor is now planned. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Counselor, I said that the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party has given up its turn. So it's up to you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.14.0	Excuse me, I was waiting for the People's Party, say so. Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of Parliament; representatives of the Union of Pages who accompany us today, of the JARC, of the Federation of Cooperatives, of the Consortium Forestal de Catalunya, meaning doubtless to say, if you allow me, that without you we would not have arrived here either, because I am absolutely co-responsible and, therefore, I am a key piece because today we are talking about this law of agricultural areas – Conseller Borrás, who I have also forgotten to greet - ; companies of the department that you are also here; Director General of Rural Development ; Director General of Agriculture and Ramaderia and Director General of Food and Industry – which is also..., yes -; Director General of Rural Agents ; Head of Agricultural and Rural Affairs, all in general, in general, in general. Thanks for the effort – I have to say –, for the effort, the constancy and the good work, but also thanks for the compromise, because it's there and it's firm, it's always there, but also thanks for estimating what you're working with, because it's sense of doubt easier to do, and it's sense of doubt that it's always much more effective. It was a very good day to everyone and everyone. Now, it's always a pleasure, and it's a big deal, it's also a deure and a real honor to place the primary sector in the centrality of this Parliament and in extension of the country as well. We cannot fail to value the paper of our pages, the paper of our pages, of our ramaders and ramaders and of our fishermen and fishermen always – whenever – on occasion. And, in fact, whenever we have occasion, it is also important to say and repeat that between any city and a nurse there is always a payday, and between any city or citizen and a calf steak there is always a rower, and between any city or citizen and a fish always, always, there is always a fisherman. This law, which was presented last July 2017, but which was due to the dissolution of the Parliament, has already been said, too, in view of the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, gives answer to a claim – it was also said – a historical claim of the sector, but not only of the sector, but also a historical claim of the territory and of the demands, that is to say, of the same Parliament, eh? , which has repeatedly urged on the need for a law of agrarian thickets. It is due – and it was also said – to Councilwoman Meritxell Serret. I want to send her from here, from the country's parliament, a hug, because I know how important it was for her to lead all these jobs. She'll advise Serret, thank you, today we're, uh, sense of doubt, closer to the tape. [[Greetings.]] We also want to claim or emphasize the importance that we have given this law, certainly a law, from the government, and it has also been said, and if it has not been said enough, let us say again – phonental – phonental – for our country. Unwillingly, but – and I'm also saying it and I want to make it clear – that this doesn't lead to debate, huh? Just now we have a debate and we must try to improve it as much as possible. We need to explain, among all of us, to the country's side, why it is so important to push it forward and arrange it as quickly as possible, because it is obvious, and I share it, that it is a law that comes up late. Also a special thanks to the parliamentary groups..., the Republican Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group Joints for Catalonia, Socialists and Units for Moving forward and Catalonia in Comú We can, all of you, all of you, thanks for this willingness to work together. And to the rest of the groups, also thanks, obviously, because it is clear to me that during the work meetings that were held in the past legislature it was possible to debate and also put many ideas from the table that we will certainly find in the proceedings that will also come in the immediate future. Thank you. The text has the support, as it could not otherwise be, of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, and it has been agreed with the main entities of the sector, with the objective of providing the country with a law that basically..., of a law, I repeat, that basically allows planning and acting taking into account the agricultural sector, take it into account as a food producer, balancing the territory and, obviously, also as a social cohesioner. Entering into matter, the objectives of the land law are: for a band, define well what these spaces are and identify those that have a high agricultural value, with the aim of preserving them. That's one of the great goals. And, on the other hand, to put into operation a mechanism that allows maximum mobilization of wasteland, transparency and guarantees to keep the maximum agricultural area under production conditions to advance in food sovereignty, to ensure the sustainable management of the environment and to promote the generational network facilitating that the youngest can be incorporated into the agricultural activity, as well as the dimension of professional exploitations that I needed. As the preamble retreated – and also, if I am not mistaken, it was said, of this proposal – Catalonia has 3.2 million hectares of surface, of which a 21 and a half percent are conreus de regadiu and de secà, a 7_percent of them are pastures and a 64_percent forest. At the same time, according to the map of Catalonia's habitats, there are 45,000_hectares of abandoned conreus, which accounts for 1.4_per_cent of the Catalan surface. Taking into account its quantitative importance, from a territorial point of view a regulation is absolutely necessary so that the agricultural areas have the recognition of their values and are endowed with the regulation that obviously corresponds to them. That is why, for these reasons, we understand the law of agricultural areas as a strategic law of the country, a law of the state – of the state – that we hope can be approved as soon as possible. As you know, the activity of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food is based on guaranteeing, and it was also said, because today many obviouss have been said, and this is important, and I celebrate it... So, it was also said that one of the activities or one of the obsessions of this department, as it could not otherwise be, is to ensure that the Catalan people have access to a food, and that this is healthy, that this is safe, that this is of quality. Because this is possible, therefore, it does not have secrets, we obviously have a dynamic territory, a cohesive territory, a territory that generates social, labour and economic opportunities. There is no food without agricultural space. This law must serve us, therefore, to provide us with protection tools that allow us to preserve the agricultural areas that serve our food to our country. And this has to happen in such a way that we give legal certainty to producers who develop their activities and ensure the competitiveness of their farms; there is no other way: to ensure the productive capacity of the agricultural sector in Catalonia and to help fix – very important – the population in the Catalan rural area. Moreover, this law provides for the status of the territorial agrarian plans, which must be drawn up in accordance with the needs and concerns of the territory, applying, therefore, this policy of republican co-management which must allow us or which has marked us, or which we want us to mark in this legislature. When we talk a lot from this department, we talk a lot about co-management – we call it "Republican co-management", which is nothing but the hand of the agents involved in any initiative that comes out of Parliament, is to hear democracy in a horizontal way. And, finally, this law will enable us to fight against land in waste and, thus, to activate the country's productive potential as much as possible, defining an embryo of which a bank of land will have to be, with the establishment of a register of land in which the owners who own land in waste or land in a non-produced state or who simply do not want to work more, say, but who want to sell them, have a public space to put them in offer of the farms they have, basically, need to grow. We are aware that this is a first step, but we must start walking immediately and firmly and courageously. I, finally, let me have a prec, huh? I know it's probably a little distressed, the first time this councilman came out here at the rostrum... in God's rostrum, right? So, here too, to the Parliament of Catalonia? (Founding voice) How? ( Someone said: « Faristol. ) « Faristol. Well, forgive me. Okay. (Laughter.) So I'm making a big deal out of it, aren't I? But I think that, once and for all, we must hear or should hear that it should not be a coincidence, in any case it should be a coincidence to have these debates in this institution, absolutely. We must ensure that it is normal that we are talking about agriculture, that we are talking about rowing, that we are talking about fishing in this Parliament. He's all right, huh? , all the rest of the things they talk about, but it would have to be normal, too, that it's about the agricultural sector and the food fronts, that they're not just strategic, but they're country backs. So, today, we are demanding, we are demanding ourselves as the sector, as the indispensable sector, and I assure you that agriculture, that rowing and fishing are responsible for this country and that we will work because they are on a constant basis, because they are on a decisive basis, because they are not to blame for the fears that they are on the country's political agenda. All right, all right, Many thanks for your interventions and thanks for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.15.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The debate is over, and as no papers have been submitted to this text in full, this initiative continues its processing. [[Question to the Government on Road Safety]] [[300-00026/12]] We are now on the fourteenth point of the order of the day, which is the question to the government about road safety. The question is made by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and in this case by Mr Josep Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.16.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, deputies, workers, guests, advisor Buch, surely one of the most shocking campaigns of prevention of left-wingness to the reelers, without explicit images of accidents but with a message of great emotional power, coincided temporarily with a resumé of colds but striking data of deaths and heavy injuries in traffic accidents. I'm talking about the campaign. We all have family. On the road, victims zero, that we all have in the retina, and also a little in the anime. And that to me seems a very uncertain campaign, because of the emotional impact that it supposes contrasting the fredor of global data with the particular pain for the loss of family lives in accidents. If not, by the effects of this campaign, every time in this text I have written and now utter the word "death" or put a number of victims, I also think that they are destroyed families, and above all I have it also every time I put myself at the wheel. But, further on, we have the data that contrasts with the effects that are sought in this campaign, in any of this campaign of the Catalan Transit Service. And, if this campaign gets us the anime, the latest data, unfortunately, is a shot of reality: one hundred and sixty mortal victims of this year's 1st generation. Much more, if we compare them to the one hundred and thirty that there was in all the year past or 127 of the year 2016, and unfortunately in the way of the 199 that there was the year 2010, that it was a year of very high sinisterity and that takes the reference to revert it to the bass. One of the objectives of his department, beyond the laudable "zero victims" that is desired by 2050 – still far – is to have reduced to half the number of victims by the year 2000 compared to 2010, but it is a short time to do so, and we have recently moved away from this objective. They are very laudable, I repeat, but to be fair, it must also be said that there are no other countries in the world that have managed to achieve so ambitious and desirable, and the harsh reality, unfortunately, tells us that the trajectory is coming down from the last few years has gone far this year that we have not yet finished. Before he gave the data of mortal victims to the reels, and now I can give the data of dead and wounded, in which you still see this clear change of tendency. The year of reference, 2010, 301 deaths and heavy injuries; 2015, 208; 2016, 198; 2017, 173; and in which we carry this year 2018, 219. We could talk about fatality, but it's worth talking about all the pleas about the possible causes behind these figures, about whether there are any factors in this old traffic accident. Since your department, Mr. Buch, a new campaign has already been announced based on the concept "not at risk and that explicitly, on images of real accidents this time, not at alcohol, not at drugs, not at excessive speed, not at reckless conduct and not at the use of the mobile, with the aim of breaking the trend and returning to the goal of zero victims. We can put all the factors involved in driving on the table. We may say we have better reels, but we can still do more. We can say that the number of black points has been reduced – some still very black – to the road network, but we can still do more. We can say that today's vehicles are safer, with electronic systems that make driving safer. We can say that many years ago we've been stringing our belts, but also that we've been stringed a little while when we go to the back seat; a 16_percent of victims don't. We can say that there has been a change of culture also respecting the consumption of alcohol and drugs, and not barring it with conduct, but also that alcohol and drugs have returned as a factor that has to see with the increase of fatal accidents, in about 5_percent of accidents. We can also say that some of the principles of this year have been made 642,000 shippers in excess of speed, but also that the excess speed continues to be a factor of left-handedness: a 13_percent of fatal accidents. But, as it is highlighted from its department, the human factor continues to be absolutely determinant in traffic accidents: 90_percent of traffic accidents with victims have it as detonating. Aviat is said; a 90_per_cent. We are talking about reckless conduct, excessive speed, alcohol and drugs and distractions in general; in short, the causes of the past, but in a context of resuming accidentality and the number of victims. But among these causes, we can also find more new factors, such as the use of the mobile; in fact, relatively we, because, according to official data, distractions with the mobile were already the first cause of left-handedness with victims in 2014, and therefore the motto of the media campaign of the Catalan Transit Service of 2015 was already this: "Vius connected. Drive, disconnect. But I'm convinced, counselor, that in the distractions the use of the mobile has not gone less, but more, and if that's not the way it will fix me. If now, in this moment, I am called the mobile – and I have to confess that I had planned even and everything that was so, in truth, to illustrate it with the example – if I or any of you are called the mobile or live in the box while we are speaking from this forum – I would rather say to him "the forum"; "the faristol I see more as they have the score or what we have in the press room of this Parliament", I think that this is worth saying "the forum, not because the faristol is less, but because it serves more for other things – then I would say that if I or any of you are called "the forum," not because the faristol is less, but because it serves more for other things." I could now notice him and he wouldn't sink and say, "Now I can't talk, I'm talking to Parliament's rostrum, but you won't wait for me to say it; I think it would be very bad. We'd wait until it's over and we'd call back or maybe send a message from the bait. So why do we take the mobile or look if we have messages or write while we're driving? Look, by using the phone from this rostrum, we could only have President Torrent, rightfully, calling our attention. But it's that, if we do it while we're driving, there's our life, and if not ours, that of any other users of the road network who have the misfortune to deal with us when we're having fun. I don't know if the unnecessary use of furniture is the main cause, counselor, of the worrying replenishment of left-handed data in Catalonia or whether it is also the rest of the world. You, Counselor, have the most detailed data and the most studied situation, and I understand that they are of great concern to you. That's why I'd appreciate it, we'd all appreciate it if you explained to us how you intend to deal with your department, and surely other government departments that may also be involved, this worrying situation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.17.0	Thank you, Mr Riera. The answer is made by the Councillor d'Interior, Mr.Miquel Buch. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.18.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, very good morning. I'll start by giving you a couple of ciphers, the ciphers on today's date, huh? As for the past year, we have a 20.05_percent more deaths from an accident; we have a 10_percent more deaths by accident in holiday days, and we have a 2.6_percent more deaths for each accident, or so that, with the same accidents, more people die. All followed, five figures: a 23_percent of this mortality is due to distractions; a 21_per_cent, to a violation of the traffic rule – from jumping a stump to not hard belt –; a 15_per_cent is a driver error; a 13_per_cent is an inadequate speed, and a 5_per_cent is due to alcohol or drug use. These are today's data. The data we had when we entered this government were not too different from what we have now, and that is why we put ourselves there from the very first moment and intensified the work, worrying us, as the Member said, worrying us very much about this subject. And we cataloged him on his way to the Emergence. And that's why, together with other departments, with the Català Transit and Road Safety Service, 509 activities were planned, and we marked three paths from abroad. A first point that is advertising campaigns. There were no plans, but we decided to intensify them. In fact, I'll talk to you about five measures in advertising campaigns. From advertising campaigns, the only one we intend to do is to seek consciousness; the awareness of which you decide to take the car and decide to drive, right? Because we can't give up our responsibilities, but let's not forget that they are shared responsibilities, and the one who decides to drive and decides to take care of the WhatsApp, or take care of the phone, or run more, or use alcohol or drugs while driving, so it's an individual responsibility that can affect other people, because I don't just run by myself, but I can cause an accident to others. That's why I've also referred to some time that we can't talk about suicidal conduct anymore, but we can also talk about murderous conduct quietly, too. Therefore, they are no longer just suicides, but they are also homicides, drivers and drivers who decide not to respect the standards. Five measures in advertising and awareness campaigns: first, one to the most vulnerable, the weakest, who are cyclists and travellers; a awareness campaign for all of them. A _second is a report– we issued on June 28– an audiovisual by a driver, who makes clear the consequences that a driver who suffers an accident can suffer; that they are not only physical consequences, they are also psychological, they are also sociological, and they can also become labor. A third measure is that of the spot that you mentioned, that was truly rewarded, the spot of the past year. "We all have family; that, to make the point is that of "How many deaths would you want? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. « What if these were? And then the image of a direct family member of the person being questioned came out. So, it was a very award-winning and well-recognized campaign. So, we pulled up two new spots and two new falcons. For this late winter we plan to take two more campaigns. One about motorists: "Com et veus. Like and see. And a speeding one, which I'm sure we'll throw in front of the month you see, the month of November. And a five-measure, which is to keep the Infotransit blog alive, talking about road safety policies, informing and raising awareness of drivers. For one camp, awareness; for the other, pursue offenders. And, therefore, how do we pursue them, the offenders? So, with five more measures. In the month of April he threw a containment plan, which in the month of June was reviewed and in the month of September was reviewed. Therefore, we review them every three months, as they can prove. We have identified the causes of this high mortality, and we have taken five more measures: dinou campaigns of Mossos d'Esquadra and cent_sis local polices, which we speak not only of the causes that we have commented on before – distractions, violation of traffic regulations, driver error, speeding or alcohol – but also work passive security with these campaigns, we also work motorcycles, cyclists, travellers, trucks and vans, drugs, distractions, speeding, etc. Therefore, there are dynasties in front of you, Squad mossos and local police, to pursue these offenders. One _second measure is that, diagnosed that 35_percent of people who sign up to die this year on the reels are at the end of the week – so, in times of high mobility – we have launched two extraordinary and intensive campaigns. There have been campaigns..., there has been a campaign, for the time being – we have had one –, which we did this weekend – now I will give them data –, and the other we have planned to do before the year ended. It's an extraordinary intensive campaign that's been going on for a week-a week-a week-head that's expected to be a lot of mobility; and that week-end is expected to be a lot of mobility-and there's a lot of distractions, passive security, speed, alcohol and drugs. And we're doing it together with the local police in Catalonia and the squadron mosses. Now I'm going to give them data from the Squad Mousses, because the campaign has been very recent and we haven't been able to get all the data from the local police yet. But for what makes this intensive campaign, there have been more than three hundred movements of squadrons, so much disbanded as diumenge; 35,118 vehicles have been controlled; 55 points of speed control have been made, in which 1,508 offenders have been reported, and 198 points of alcohol control have been made, in which 1,749 readings of alcohol have been made, of which 95 have given us positive. These data will increase when we have all the data of the local police in Catalonia. From this, as I said, we'll make it a prop, before we finish the year. And it's a time when, so, if you've moved to Catalonia this weekend, then you must have seen that there was a lot of police on the road, local police and squadron movements. And that's the point. We have another measure, a third measure that we've taken this year, which is prohibition..., and this goes a little further, but it's been pushed forward just now on..., we approved before August the latest..., I think it was July 27 that we approved the ban on the movement of trucks for the national 340 and for the national 240, and this had to be accompanied by some bonuses that the Spanish government approved; improvements to these trucks to travel for the most cheap AP-7, which were approved at the beginning of September. We don't say that trucks and transporters are the cause of accidents, but we do reduce traffic and, therefore, gain by accident. And the dice are on the table. A_fourth measure: installing us radars. We have a 60-per-cent reduction in mortality in trams where there are radars. So, if we have a lot of mortality, we install radars and it lowers 60 percent of that mortality. And a few of these steps we've taken: a 26_per_cent more sanctioning expedients, and between June and October a 72_per_per_cent more. Therefore, let us say that in these four_months we carry a 72_per_cent more sanctions, therefore, of presence to the reels. What are the results? That between generation and March we had a 72_percent mortality rate in 2017, an increase in mortality rate. I between April and October a 10_percent mortality, an increase in mortality. What does that mean? That it has slowed our increase, but we continue to increase. And that's something we're worried about, and a lot. Therefore, we are not satisfied with the data we have – we are not satisfied – but it is true that the measures have effect. And they're having effects and we've reduced the 72 percent mortality between generation and March to 10 percent mortality between April and October. A third pot, which are the actions of the future: you have told me about the plans 2020, which is the reduction of 40_per_cent compared to 2010; work together, with the local world, and various objectives, that if you had more time I would explain it. But, in summary, we say that we are patenting an increase – 2018 we are patenting an increase –; that we are very, very concerned; that from the first day we are working; that we are working in awareness and persecution..., and chasing and punishing offenders; that we are looking more than 2018 and 2019– we are looking at 2020 and 2050 with the objectives we give. And, therefore, we have slowed the increase; we are not satisfied. We're on a road map and we're going after the suicides, and we're going after the homicides that are causing these accidents and these deaths on the reels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Government inquiry into external action and transparency]] [[300-00030/12]] The next question is about external action and transparency. Anyway... but there's no... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, because we made the change. Do I remember? [[Pause.]] We made the change from the 15th to the day, and maybe the counselor isn't notified. If they seem... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, the thing is, whoever has to do it, I think it's not in the hemicicle either. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, all right, all right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay, sorry, yeah. So let's do this... at this point, that there's no Foreign Affairs advisor, let's go to dissette point... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Now there's the councilman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, if it looks like it, we're going as planned. Therefore, we now turn to the question to the Government on external action and transparency; question presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the formula Mrs Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.20.0	Thank you. Good morning, Counselor. Yesterday you said that in this Parliament you could talk about everything. I would like to talk to you about the preparations that gave little to the democracy of 6 and 7 September of last year, as well as the two unilateral declarations of independence of 10 October and 27 October 2017. I'd like to talk about these preparations and transparency. Lobby Independent Diplomat, contracted for Diplomat, with a presumption that it had the year past 2,300,000_euros; a lobby that the Generality had a spending of more than 1,700,000_euros, and that we don't know what it was doing: we don't know who it was talking to, we don't know what its actions are, what its reports are. This..., a complaint came to the Bureau of Parliament, and in the end it was necessary to constitute a transparency-guarantee body that gave the reason to this Member, to this representative of the citizens of Catalonia, and that acknowledged that you had to donate these data. My question is the following, counselor: will you give the reports and all the activities that this lobby did, that there was a spending of more than 1,700,000_euros on public archives? Yes or no? Remember that I'm in employment and remember that the government has an obligation to give me this information. International visitors of Diplomat. We also asked them for information, you didn't give it to us either; they put more than one excuse: that the orientation of Diplomat still needs to be redefined... But, in change, you did run to re-edit another time Diplomat; now, to give us the information of these visits, no. I again file a complaint; the agency of transparency guarantees me back to donate reason as representing the citizens of Catalonia. And I'll be back in business, and you'll have to give me that information again. Counselor, will you give me this information, as representing Catalans? Yes or no? And it is not only a matter of contracts that correspond to me as representing the citizens of Catalonia, that I already have four, also some of my companies are in employment and, therefore, Government, you have the obligation to give this information. We have, moreover, thirteen cases pending to raise complaints at the Bureau of Parliament and petitions because, therefore, the transparency guarantee body is pronounced, because you do not give this information. And the question remains whether you would give this information, yes or no? In relation to external action. I would like to talk about two very concrete cases: the Smithsonian Festival, which is an important cultural event that was made in Washington this summer, and in which they participated, therefore, Catalan artistic companies. We asked for information about the cost of this festival. They gave us a very partial documentation, that the Office of the President had spent approximately 51,000_euros. They gave us an answer that I believe, in terms of transparency and respect for the representatives of Catalonia, of the citizens of Catalonia, leaves much to be desired. In this response given to us by the Government, you tell us that there were also more than seven people from the Office of the President, members of the Department of Foreign Affairs. So, indefinitely. We don't know if there's a person, two people, four hundred people in your department... how many people are there, counselor? With transparency, you don't tell us. And in this writing he tells us that, roughly, there was an expenditure of EUR 51,000, but he did not answer us about all the expenses that there was. We're going to have to ask our deputies why we don't have these figures. The parliament answered, the government did not, and they told us that there was a cost of 2 million euros at this festival. Do you know how this festival ended? , ended with a refrain between the Spanish Ambassador to the United States and President Torra, with images that were made viral. Do you believe in external action, counselor, that this is the best way to position Catalonia in the world? Maybe..., and it's a shame that you didn't see the artistic companies that participated in it; at the end of the day the news was those viral images coming out of President Torra and all his company. Maybe I'm wrong, and maybe the artists were President Torra and all his artistic company, with whom they apologize. [[Greetings.]] In any case, it was an artistic company that cost the public arches 2_million euros. Counselor, I ask again: do you think this is the way to position Catalonia in the world? Unity for the Mediterranean – Unity for the Mediterranean. It was a very important summit of this international organization, which has its own in Barcelona, in which countries members of the European Union take part, countries of the neighbouring Mediterranean, which are discussing such important things as sanitation, drinking water, economic empowerment of women, youth, climate change, quality research, etc., and President Torra could not go there because they gave him a chance to take the hills and he could not present himself. The government of Spain paralyzed him. President Torra addressed a letter to the representatives of that summit saying what he wanted to say. A letter that makes you cry, make you victims, and a letter that makes you speak badly of Spain. Counselor, do you think this is the first way to position Catalonia in the world? First question. Second question. You think that this way you will open the doors, the Government of Spain, that it is the one that directs foreign policy, that it is to which we..., or you, as the Government of the Generality, must be loyal, must go to the kingdoms, must go in the direction of this Government of Spain? Do you think this is the way the president of Catalans acts as a political activist, as a leader of the CDRs, in accounts of going from this summit accompanying the Spanish Government as host and projecting what is Catalonia, which is the magnificent city of Barcelona? And you, counselor, should be very careful about this. Don't you think that would be better? Don't you think maybe, if Inés Arrimadas was president of Catalonia, he could have entered this summit of the Union for the Mediterranean? I think so. I think that a president like Inés Arrimadas could have entered this international summit and this important forum, so important for the Mediterranean and for the city of Barcelona, which is the Union for the Mediterranean. Actually, counselor, the world looks at us, that's true, but that doesn't mean I look at us well. Think of going on like this, that the vaginas closing the doors every time you send out communications, that you do some international action? Are they going to go door to door and shoot because it touches me? I would also like to say, Counselor, that I have been challenged in his parliamentary office about all these arrangements that the Government already has an obligation to answer, and that he should tell us – and that he should tell all the citizens of Catalonia – whether or not they intend to give this information, whether or not, based on transparency. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, Mr. Ernest Maragall, External Affairs Advisor, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.22.0	Thank you, President; thank you, honourable Member. It is good that we are given the opportunity to talk about transparency in this house, in this house which is one of the institutions of Catalan sovereignty, but it is also, at the same time, a reference – this institution and that of the Government of Catalonia also, as we can now prove – in terms of transparency. But let 'contest, from the beginning, his questions, diguessim, specifiques. It's not what you thought, it's what I've already answered, huh? You have, in the register of this house, the answers to all your questions; they are all entries, signed on October 19, last week, and registered in this Parliament just now. So they're at your disposal. I don't feel sorry because there will be time to, in fact, devote all the attention you want, all the details, all the possibilities of access to the information, which we also offer; there will be nothing left out, in other words, of the abst of your curiosity, let's say it, right? And it seems pretty good that it's still that way, there's no reason why I don't have that chance. So, more than that, they are now his references, which to me seem, frankly, almost funny or pathetic, if they were not so pitiful in another sense, not for what you have said, but for what they represent as the situation of relationship with our State. But we're going back to the issue of transparency, aren't we? Look at you, I get it, don't I? , that our answers to you..., and the ones I've given you now, surely, will continue to say that they don't like you, eh? , because never..., as you said respect what we gave you of the journeys and these questions that you have expressed. Why don't you want to know, huh? You want to be rude, you want to destroy, you want to be discredited, you want to discredit, you want to lower the quality or the recognition, in other words, the visibility, the credibility of these institutions. And that's what I'm very comfortable about because they won't make it, huh? And you can already blow, you can repeat – infinitely as a fan – the same speech, the same song, the same sentence one time and another. They may not be able to see that each time they repeat the marginal value of their statements has progressively decreased, and now, finally, that remains, practically in no-res. Miri, you have made this parliamentary..., we have answered from the Government of Catalonia, through the instigations that this Parliament has brought to us, the Bureau of this Parliament, we have given answer to 1,910 written questions; we have answered 555 requests for documentation, eighty-seven requests from these in the Department of External Action; we have compared, this Government has appeared to give explanations on twenty-five occasions, I myself on three of them, one to explain lines of general action, the other for cooperation policy and the other for the development of the bilateral relationship with the State. And if there's anything we can say from here, too, is that if there's a reference in transparency to the Spanish State, I hear you say it's Catalonia, huh? Do you know that the Central Administration, for example, does not have a lobby register, does not have a register of interest groups? The Central Administration of the State, this State that closes the doors of the Union for the Mediterranean, for example. There's no tea, there's no tea. Now the President of the Government has spoken or promised that there would be a publication of the visiting agenda. Now, for the first time and for the future. Or do you know, for example, that the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the capacity to declare that all information about its external performance is excluded from the Transparency Law. You can, whatever you ask of them, you can tell them: "No, that's part of the limits that the law of transparency admits to us. We don't have them here, these limits, we don't want them, we don't want them. So we are absolutely not just more calm but we are absolutely proud of our action and our quality in terms of transparency. And you know that the Spanish International Transparency, which is obviously an independent, accredited and unsuspected institution of manipulation, systematically places us among the best Spanish institutions, both from the point of view of quantity and quality. We've got the whole Gobert process going, it's a very important concept that, ultimately, it's already producing significant changes and changes in this direction of transparency, with a very clear and simple principle: to publish, to publish everything that is not prohibited or limited by the law. From the start, without expecting anyone to ask us. That's why Gov. Obert went, exactly. And that's what we're doing now and that's what we're going to do formally and with all the consequences from this government agreement. This is also why we have been accepted as Catalonia, as the institution of the Catalan Government, in the international organization referring to this to the Open Data Charter. Or, we have participated in the International Open Dade Conference, in Argentina, right now. Oh, yesterday, Copenhagen. Yesterday, in Copenhagen, there was an anti-corruption conference with all the questions of transparency around, etc. There was a representative of the Department of External Action, and if you want to send him the data of your trip, with great taste. How many representatives of the Spanish Government were there? Zero. Who'd they give the transparency prize to? To Mrs. Ana Garrido, alerter of the Gürtel case and persecuted for her assembly and for her mayor, who is certainly the candidate of the People's Party to the Autonomous Community of Madrid. This is the image of Spain, in terms of transparency. And this is the differential reality that respects ourselves as the democratic and perfectly transparent institution. You also know, for example, that these travel data that you have requested, based on the agreement that we took to the Interdepartmental Commission of Government Obert, a few months ago, will not now be needed either, because we will publish all the data from all the travel, from all the other parts of the Catalan Administration. And we'll do it consciously, because it's our criteria, because it's our conviction, because it's our will, without any other limits. Or now, you know too, that you have admitted to this chamber – and will be very interested in the debate that we will have –, you have presented a project, but there is a project that has been presented since the social initiative and assumed for all groups, except naturally for the People's Party and Citizens, which speaks, that will establish an authentic alarm protection regime. Then we will have a chance again to see who is actually in favour of transparency and who is, however, very far away and in a perfectly opposed position. Or, as is the case these days in the debates on Spanish representation chambers, with regard to the decriminalization of certain concepts of injury in the realm, precisely, of the monarchy, of religion, etc. And we will also see what is the respective position of some and other groups on these issues. Miri, and lastly, with regard to external action and our presence. I had occasion last week to be in Brussels, or a few weeks ago in Berlin, and it is still a matter of weeks in London, and in all cases I have been with institutional representatives, representatives of think tanks, representatives of communication media, and it seems to me that, if anything happens – and in the background is what is behind interest and everything that happened last October – is that the world is interested in Catalonia. There are institutions, people, representatives from all over the world, intellectuals, academics, lawyers who want to know what is going on, who are concerned about them, who are interested in the situation of human rights, civil rights and freedom of expression in our country. And that's why they're coming. And that's why we'll keep inviting them to come, we'll keep welcoming them whenever they come, naturally. And this is our obligation and you should be absolutely in favour of this. And it seems to me that it is, in change, a shame that you continue to say, posing as an example denied to us, the action of the Spanish State in the case of the constellation of Greece, in the case of the delegate of Flanders, or in the case of the conference of the Union for the Mediterranean. Do you really think you're in favor, representing the citizens of Catalonia, when it seems good that you won't let us into this event? This is a shame that you express in terms of direct attack on the institutions and the people of Catalonia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] When you deny that Catalonia is an active member of the Union for the Mediterranean, when you work together to make it possible for the interests, the presence and the voice of our country to express, not only in our own country, in terms of the defence of you and of the seven and a half million Catalans, who are citizens of the Mediterranean, of Europe and of our country, with all clarity. So don't... study the answers we've given you and if you want to talk again, calmly. We can talk about it with you whenever you want, at the committee, or come to the department and with great pleasure I will have it and we can comment, from the answers you will have to your abst, today – I suppose – or tomorrow, in any case. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return, again, of Congresswoman Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.24.0	Thank you. Counselor, counselor, you're talking to a representative of the citizens of Catalonia, just like the rest of the Members. [[Greetings.]] We are representatives of the citizens of Catalonia and we differ from their positions. I'll start at the end. You said: "Does it seem to you that President Torra cannot go to the summit of the Union for the Mediterranean, that it is a summit, that it is an international organization of states of which the hostess is Spain? If it's to send cards and speak badly of Spain, to load Spain, to make the victims the nationalists – not all Catalans: the nationalists –, if it's per... [[applause]] If you are, counselor, not to respect the exclusive competence of foreign policy, which corresponds to the Government of Spain... We do not go for free, we must be loyal! That's outside action! What you're doing is something else, it's separatist action, and, forgive me for saying it, "I'll be right there. [[applause]] Because there's a lot of money and it's absolutely useless, because they locked the doors one by one. If Inés Arrimadas was the president of Catalonia, I am convinced that she would go to these summits of the Union for the Mediterranean accompanying the Government of Spain, of course, and positioning Catalonia in a much better way, and the city of Barcelona, much better than you are doing. Here's the question. Here's the answer. [[Greetings.]] With regard to transparency and employment, it is not that we do not like the answer we are being given: there is an independent transparency agency that has given us the reason after months and months and months to ask. This is a breach of the transparency of his government, an absolute breach. His government doesn't have six months of government, and there's already been more than six jobs. In these responses that you say you sent us on October 19th, it is to say, in the end, after insisting and complaining, and that you give the reason that there has been this organ of transparency guarantee to representatives of the citizens of Catalonia – remember, we are also representatives of the citizens of Catalonia –..., it is because we have not failed to insist on asking for these data. If these data that you don't... donate to us isn't what we're asking, we'll go back to the transparency agency, because they're already making case law. If it's the end he'll make us experts in transparency! You have an obligation to give all the information we are asking for. They can't apologize for "this was done in another legislature. Which, of course, is what Rome was doing, and in the end the transparency agency said: "If the data are in the Generality, you have the obligation to give these data. Why do you have so much to give your face here, before the citizens of Catalonia, to Parliament? Why do they have so much for, if they're so democratic, if they're doing so well, why do they have so much to talk about and let the opposition, especially the opposition, control the government? Why? If all this has been done fanciful, if these preparations to take a look at democracy and two unilateral declarations of independence, that they were two, that it was institutional rape, whether they like it or not..., do they not want to give these data, why is it, if so democratic they say they are? You say you want to talk about everything; so give the data, and from our data we will also control what happened and what we don't want to happen. Look, we have an alternate project, an alternate project for transparency, because we can agitate much more and the deputies, any member of this chamber will not have to go chasing them back and forth, with these dilations that you have, until you end up with an organ of transparency that gives us the reason, with which you can pass six, seven, or more. We have measures so that it does not pass on to anyone and because the own governments that come after have a culture of transparency much more democratic than you have. And in external action we have an alternate project that goes to position much better Catalonia, to position much better Barcelona, to position much better Spain and to position much better the European Union, because it is ultimately a common project. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.25.0	Thank you again, Congresswoman. To make the reply again hold the word the Counsellor of External Action, Mr.Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.26.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mrs. Beltran, I'm telling you, I'm telling you that the data is holding them, and you're holding them, that they're being answered. I don't say we don't answer him again, 'cause that's not true, is it? It's not true. [[Widow's remorse.]] They're, I've already... they're following this technique of repeating a lie to see if anyone believes it. [[I'll give you the applause.]] But no, no, no, that doesn't fit anymore. See, here's a reference. Throughout the 155th period, where were our delegations closed, and also Diplomat – or is that not what it sounds like? Yeah? Does that ring a bell? – It's when more questions from you accumulating..., legitimately, perfectly, you act as representatives of the citizens of Catalonia, no one has said the contrary; I respect this question absolutely, I would only miss it. And, exercising this condition, you made a glue of questions that the State, as head of the Administration in Catalonia, did not answer and prevent us from challenging, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] That's what happened, that's what explains the vast majority of the backlog and the information that is about to be administered over all those months. Then, from our presence in the government, we have recovered the rhythm, we are recovering the rhythm, we are recovering the information. Now we've had opportunities since July, huh? , from July only, to hold the doors and archive material of Diplomat and all its activity. That it's not the government of Catalonia, by the way. Diplomat is a public and private consortium, not ours. He's as much ours as you are, he's from the country, huh? And, therefore, all this information is just now that it's, it's starting to be..., and it's not yet, because they're still not properly recovered from the structure, the functioning, the administration of the Diplomacy in the same conditions. I think there's additional confusion here, don't you? Miri, come to the department and see how far we are or not on condition that we comply with the requirements and with the..., say, with the absolute commitment to serve transparency in this country. Talking to our... to Mr. Jordi Foz, who is here accompanying us today, and they see... but, please, they start to respect the prestige that he and the department have in this matter of the world, huh? ; State, Europe and the world. Because that's what we are, we're referring to transparency, and we're going to follow it..., we're not just going to follow it: I'm still more so, with all the certainty. We have the opportunity in our own months, in our own weeks and months, to see the reasons, and the prestige and contempt, in the contrast between our performance and that of the State in this matter, this State to which you claim loyalty. The deliality, in any case, honourable Member, must be mutual, and must be applied in both senses. And here it is not that there is no joy in the sense of the State with regard to the institutions of Catalonia: it is that what has happened is aggression, what has happened is direct attack, what has happened is repression, what has happened is systemic offense, what has happened is denial of rights. And in international action this is especially notorious. I do not feel sorry, because now, from the systemic attacks including the current government in terms of trying to erase Catalonia from the map, that there is neither in the Union for the Mediterranean nor in place, nor in an architectural conference in Brussels, which is the most ridiculous that can be done, or when there are attacks on the freedom of expression of councils, of representatives of the countries, of the delegate of Flanders, which is what makes Catalonia exist. Next attacking Catalonia in this field of external action, because this is making us win respect, this is making us win understanding, it is making us win positive, in relation to the cause of freedom that we represent, against the cause of repression that represents the Spanish State. And this is the real situation in this matter of external action and the presence of Catalonia in the world. Don't worry: this battle, this battle too, we will win, with all clarity, and we will have little time to go forward to prove it. You'll see how this perspective that I'm saying is confirmed. It is the Spanish State that is in deep disdain. It is the Spanish State that is denying and violating European treaties, international rights, human rights, basic rights, civil rights of our citizens. It's the Spanish State that kept innocent people trapped. And that's what the world sees, the world knows. We'll win. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.27.0	Thank you, Counsellor Maragall. [[Question to the Government on the guarantee of the exercise of the rights of use in public space]] [[300-00031/12]] The next question is about ensuring the exercise of the rights of use in public space. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the formula is Mr Matías Alonso. [[Pause.]] There's no counselor... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! Yeah, there's the counselor, there's the vice president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.28.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Government..., Vice President, I see that it has at its disposal now the civic security, the maintenance of public order, the guarantee of the fundamental rights... It is a new responsibility. Today I thought I'd be questioning Councilman Buch. In any case, I must tell you that both Councillor Buch and you know, or you must know, that the security and full force of democratic order is the best guarantee of the free exercise of rights and freedoms on the part of all citizens. And that, from a democratic point of view, is an indisputable truth, as it is that the safeguard of our democracy is respect for the Constitution, the Statute of autonomy and laws. This also happens to the rest of the democracies around us, which I must tell you are the strongest and most solid democracies in the world. Respect for the full force of the state of law is the real democratic guarantee of the free exercise of rights and freedoms, of Spain and of all the democracies around us, the democracies that are the most solid and the strongest in the world. All of us, all of the citizens of Catalonia, like right-wing Spaniards, have the privilege of enjoying one of the world's most solid and strongest democracies. The social and democratic state of rights in which Spain was established in 1978 has allowed us to become one of the best democracies in the world. Our social and democratic state of rights is and must continue to be the best guarantee of the free exercise of our fundamental rights and public freedoms. And what are we finding in the past few years, since a lord of whom no one remembers, Mr. More, set his course? Since the Government of the Generality with this Parliament, one of the main institutions of Catalonia, first with Mr. Mas, after the presidency of the Ara fled Carles Puigdemont, and at these times under the..., I do not know well how to define it, perhaps under the expert gaze, self-taught, in human evolution and in superior races, Mr. Torra, since the Government of the Generality, as I say, has been carrying, has witnessed to carry our democratic order, what do we now find? So in Catalonia democracy and the state of right are in danger. You, the Convergence-Esquerra, wanted to liquidate democracy. You, the most reactionary and corrupt right, and the self-named "left, which neither is nor aspires to be, because you neither want nor seek justice, equality and solidarity..., a marriage of convenience that is at the hour of the day that we least agree. You have wanted to settle democracy and have closed this Parliament more than a year ago, fourteen months before the legislative committees meet, only opened to the convenience of staging their separatist day. These days are just a year ago, first on the 6th and 7th of September, when their travel companions posed over this Parliament illegitimately and barroera..., and wanted to carry the Statute of Autonomy, they intended to leave without effect the main of our democratic standards, the Constitution. Then, on September 20 and 21, when the main insurrectional organizations of the autonomous community, of course after the same government, made a call to their partners and followers to prevent the legitimate action of justice to the Department of Economics, which you now occupy and which was also there at the Rambla de Catalunya. Then, on October 1, when the conxorx of the government and of the separatist parties and organizations, with the connivance of the prefecture of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, orchestrated a democratic farce with which they wanted to win international support. A medium they don't have, they don't ever tend to. Then came the unilateral declaration of independence, that of the eight-seconds, in that shameful session of October 10th, in this room of plenarys; a democratic shame with which many Catalans have been deceived and pretended to deceive the world. The October 10th accident, as the escapee Clara Ponsatí says. And now, one year later, we're still under the rule and the law. They won't get together and know it, but democracy and the rule of law have been put in jeopardy. Freedom, justice, equality and solidarity have been put at risk. The free exercise of public rights and public freedoms has been put at great risk. It has been done, and continues to be done, an abuse and anti-democratic use of public space. Public space cannot be used as a party, with the excuse of freedom of expression. Everyone has a right to freedom of expression, but nobody has a right to arbitrarily appropriate public space and democratic institutions, because they are all. Therefore, we ask them again: old for the neutrality of public space, and, more concretely, no longer use the official facilities of the councils, of the same government, for party propaganda. You, any one of you, can mean, as many Catalans do, with the distinction they want to carry, with a groceries, with what they want; but they have neither you nor any of the government, no right to decorate the buildings of the Government, the buildings of the councils, with separatist propaganda. Neither you nor anyone from the government. I, of course, the mayor's head or the governor's head. Who wants to hang a stelade, a groc, a banner or any other distinction of separatist merchandising, at his home, at his balcony, at his window. It's on his right, it's free to do it; that's freedom of expression. Now, dressing up a group, dressing up a councillor, the Palau de la Generalitat, the urban furniture, with party symbols and which, I must remind you, are out of the question for most Catalans, is abusing power and going against the most elementary democratic principles. That's enough! There is already enough to allow, as allowed, the bridges and other spaces of the main communication routes, such as motorways and motorways, to see that the separatist minority, the separatist social minority, is hegemonic in Catalonia. This has been allowed, and this is a heavy violation of the law which, moreover, has put thousands of drivers at great risk who, on days of operation gone out or back on holiday, August and September past, have seen uncontrollable groups of those you expect, with banners, plastic groceries, stelades..., proclaiming the republic of the eight-seconds that neither is nor will be. It is their responsibility, the responsibility of the Government, not to allow drivers to be put at risk and the rest of the users of the main communications streets of Catalonia, such as their responsibility to veto because the groups of uncontrollable people who self-identify "the defense committee of the Republic, not enjoying an area of impunity, that does not tally carts, highways, railway lines, that occupy high-speed and high-speed stations and do and do with total impunity, as they are. We already know that they want to see that they play Republicanism, and that the acquaintance of these groups encourages them to take a big look, but their responsibility, the responsibility of their government, is to guarantee the freedom and the fundamental rights of all citizens. Which is totally incompatible with the action, allegedly criminal of these violent groups. Mirin, the Councillor d'Interior, in response to a request for information made for Ciutadans, and signed for me, acknowledged that, in relation to the actions... – he said "claims, I say insurrectional" – of these organized groups in Catalonia, on November 8, 2017, said in text: "75 police attestations were made for possible criminal offences against the public order and some of them referred to more than one level of transit. Some actions that the advice report detailed and acknowledged that: « Most of the transit sizes were carried out for the names « CDRs. However, it cannot be confirmed that the identified persons belong to these groups. These are textual words from the advice report. His obligation, his responsibility as the government authority and the most responsible for citizen security and for the maintenance of public order, is to identify those responsible for all and each of the violent extremist groups. Groups which, on the other hand, allow the luxury to convoke together, with the main insurrectional sectors of Catalonia, acts of all kinds. We have seen them jointly sign calls with the main party, supposedly civil, with ANC and Ómnium, and with the whole range of parties and groups that want to raise a new border to the European Union. There can be no room for impunity before criminal action. Make a note of it, it's his responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.30.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Member, go so far as to say that one of the first surprises of your intervention was when you started to characterise, to define the concept you have of democracy. And he talked about elements that are important in a democratic and right state. He talked about the laws, he talked about the separation of powers, he talked about the public order, but he left an element that is fundamental, and that it is the element that differentiates democracy from authoritarian regimes in which there may also be separate powers, from authoritarian regimes in which there is also a standard system, a legal system, and what is it that you, therefore, did not remember to differentiate? You didn't remember to point out, this defining element of a democratic state? Popular volunteering. In everything you have expressed, in the definition of democracy, it seems that the decision of the citizenry, the one that emits the citizenry, through its vote in the ballot box, seems that for you it is not important at the time of characterizing a democracy. So, for us, it is. Because when repeatedly, from the structures of a state, therefore, it denies this democratic will expressed at the polls, when it is not looking for instruments within the same state, to guarantee political pluralism and to facilitate that the projects that are on the table and that win elections, it is also possible to find in its democratic channel, through consensus, dialogue and, finally, through the vote, because it is possible to carry out, so obviously, the system is col·lapsing. And, in fact, the 1978 system, in the Spanish State, has collapsed. You're starting from an idea that is the petrification of legal order. The legal order is what it is, and what it's like, like these are the laws, because that's it, that's good enough for you. And, therefore, any proposal that you want to go further, that you want to offer a political change, so no, you already reject it, from the outset. Okay. You would appreciate it if it were a debate between lawyers, the debates of Parliament, but here it is a political debate, a debate about political projects, legitimate, confrontational, different, in which, in the end, we have to find the formulas because those who are winners and those who ballot them give them the majority of votes can also apply. When, moreover, they are legitimate, democratic projects, they are projects that offer nothing different for our country than that of other societies. Ugly reference to the division of powers. I said: "Spain is one of the main democracies of the world. Okay. In fact, the Council of Europe does not think that this respects the division of powers, when it recalls that three of the four recommendations, for which it does the politicization of judicial bodies, are ignored, on the part of the Spanish State; when it places the Spanish State at the level of the twenty-one states assessed for the politicization of the organs of the judiciary. Therefore, the Council of Europe, which I assume must have some value and which is to be heard..., we listen to it when it says things that we do not like, we listen to it too..., I think, as a minimum, it poses its claim in question. Also, one of his statements, of these mantras, spoke of the Parliament closed fourteen months... well, he forgot about an important aspect, huh? , that the Parliament a year ago was dissolved, in application of Article 155, that there were intruders, yes, intrusions that went beyond the division of powers in the composition of this Parliament, in the candidates of this Parliament, changing the jurisprudence established on who may or may not be present in an investiture debate, intervened in proceedings and investiture debates of this Parliament, and that happened. Then, it seems that for you this did not happen, that 155 did not approve Ciutadans, the People's Party and the PSOE in the Senate, but we approved the Senators of the Republican Left and the PDECAT in the Senate. So it's not like that, you know perfectly well it's not like that. Therefore, it seems that on the 155th, those months that Parliament, indeed, was closed, was limited, was under judicial observation, as it is now, so it seems that this did not exist. Then, you made a reference to the situation of violation of rights and freedoms that, part of the citizenry believes that it is happening in Catalonia. And I agree, I agree that there are rights and freedoms of citizens that have been violated in Catalonia. And as long as they're breaking in! The right to freedom of expression is being violated when, therefore, a certain law is applied in the line of converting these hate crimes, which were to be used to protect minorities, to protect certain collections from criticism, not from insult, not hatred, criticism, and when the hate crime is applied, not to protect the collections that, for racial, sexual, national or ethnic reasons, may suffer discrimination, but to protect the judiciary or certain organs and security forces of the State, in this case, from the political criticism that is always legitimate, applying the hate crime to a lord who has put a ball nose on the side of a civil guard. Therefore, I believe it is a clear display that yes, that you have all the reason for the world and that you are violating rights and freedoms. You have every reason in the world to say that there are groups of uncontrollable people who act with violence in our streets. Yes, groups of uncontrollables who go armed with knives, who act during the night, with elements to remove from public and private space, also from private space, elements that form part of the freedom of expression. And it's true, you have every reason in the world to say that what is to be done is to identify the people who act in this way. Do you know what happens when Squad Moissons identify apart from groups that are manifesting in favor of independence, and who may or may not agree, in some forms of these manifestations? He knows what happens when the Squad Mosses identify armed groups with cutlery that go by villages with very few inhabitants, of nests [[remorse of the voice]] Of nits... well, I'd appreciate it if they respected the freedom of speech, let me talk, huh? [[Some applause.]] I keep saying, do you know what happens when they do this? That comes out of his parliamentary group president, and he says that the Squadron Mosses act as the political police and call on the citizenry to disobey the police, this supposed political police, who are the Squadron Mosses. And do you know what happens when this happens? That you wait for an absolutely politicized prosecution, not to ensure that those who go with their faces covered, of night, armies, bring elements of public space..., not to ensure that they identify, but to pursue the Mossos d'Esquadra, who are doing their work, not imposing fines, not inciting certain crimes, no, no..., identification – identification. Therefore, I agree with you that there are political rights, civil rights, that... and freedoms that may be at risk in Catalonia. You defend neutrality when you mean silence. They ask for neutrality in public space, because it bothers them with the expression of the citizenry. And, listen to me, the public space of our country is the space of excellence of freedom of expression. Because that's what politics has to do in the private sphere, that's... at home they do whatever they want, and public space has to be neutral... that's nothing to talk about, we've heard it a few times. When you talk about neutrality, you talk about silence. And the streets of this country are streets that always express the claims of all, the claims of those who legitimately defend the unity of Spain, and so much so, they have all the right, and we will always – always – defend the right to those who believe in the unity of Spain that also use public space in their manifestations; obviously they must do so, and also those who legitimately defend it, the independence of Catalonia. But also those who have protested against the war, against the retail, for us public school models, who have done so and have done so many times, and today, also, certain collections, Protestants or making claims addressed to this government. We will always defend the right to those who criticize this government that also uses public space as a form of freedom of expression. Because, for us, freedom of expression is about whether or not we agree with the content of what it is. This is the grace of freedom of speech. Otherwise, it would be the obligation of adherence, not the freedom of expression, the obligation of adherence to a certain speech. So I disagree. This government absolutely disagrees with what you plant when there is an abuse of public space, when the streets of this country have been, in the past year, the space where there have been mobilizations of much contrary symbol, and what we have to guarantee is that all can express, that all can manifest, that all ideas can be on the table. Precisely because of this, accompanying the policies that it is doing in this area of the Government, of the Department of Interior, obviously, in which it is the mere management of public space, as also of the Department of Justice, or of the Department of Labour in the matter of equality, we have created the Office of Civil Rights and Policies, an office of civil and political rights that will defend the rights of all, regardless of ideology, regardless of the thought expressed in these rights to freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of demonstration. It is essential if we want to ensure that the democratic debate is produced in this chamber, it is produced in the media, which is also to be produced in the street. The bottom line is to want a silent society, a society that only talks about politics at home, and this is not a society that is neither democratic nor advanced. And, therefore, our commitment always, always, to the defense of the rights of all. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.31.0	Thank you, Vice President. To make the answer is the return, again, of the deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.32.0	Well, I see it's installed in the fallacy, it's meant to defend on the basis of fallacy. I have defended freedom of expression and I am following it in defense, and I defend all civil and public freedoms in Catalonia, and so much – and so much. And, look, a few days ago, the Interior Councilor appeared, which, by the way, I don't know if they've stopped, because I told him that maybe if he didn't have enough to compromise with the defense of rights and freedoms, the best he could do was fold. So, in relation to the hard people who lived on September 29th and October 1st in Catalonia and before this Parliament, there cannot be an oasis of impunity. You have delegated the government faculty to ensure the free exercise of the right of assembly and demonstration, a right, that yes, inalienable. All the citizens have it, when they are in full rights. And I've already told the councilman this past decade: the right of assembly and manifestation we all have, but according to the rules that regulate it. And at the time of defending these rights of assembly and demonstration, the first thing to take place is that there is no right of counter-demonstration, that there is no right of anyone to boycott a legally authorized demonstration. I told the Interior Commission the decree, to the councillor– today absent–: « You– I said to him–, « from the Interior Council, from the official Twitter account of your department, from the Interior Department, the Saturday 15th of September waited for the camps that occupied the Sant Jaume square to follow with their camp, while there was an authorized demonstration for the weekend that had to end at the square and that had called a platform named We spoke Spanish. Here's the inner pelada. [[The orator shows the chamber a full.]] He said, concretely: "In front of different news and not contrasts, Interior informs that it is not expected to dislodge the camp of the square of Sant Jaume. They just needed to add: "We're fine already. Historically, the square of Sant Jaume is a space in which no camping type is allowed. Finally – I told the counselor – there was a police union in 2010 that wanted to camp in Sant Jaume Square and there were no more than 30 minutes. Then Barcelona's Urban Guard took them out of that space. But you, apart from your continued fallacy, what they want is to rewrite the story, now it's all gone. His country's in the middle of everything. Fortunately, it is not because of the right state, the right democratic state, not because of the democratic order that, despite you, continues and will continue in this autonomous community of one of the world's most decentralized states. And, look, you're often talking about political justice. What would happen if the citizens to whom their rights are violated could not access justice? What would happen if I had imposed the legal transitionality that they wanted to impose by passing through the world of this Parliament? What would happen if the Government of the Generality had the absolute power that it claimed with its coup to democracy? What would happen to his right-wing republic? Fortunately, democracy is strong. Fortunately, in a mature democracy such as Spain, in a social and democratic state of law within the European Union in full 21st century, the citizens defend their rights before justice when the executed power, the governmental authority – you – violate their phonenal rights. That's how we made this platform. We speak Spanish, complaining against the Councillor of the Interior, against other members of his council and against two members of this Parliament who are self-erected in devices of the absolute truth and capable of deciding with their understanding which deserves and which does not manifest freely, in conformity with the law, for the streets of Barcelona. The aldarets, the coercions, the settlement, organized with the soul of making life impossible with little and freedom of many of our fellow citizens, cannot go unpunished, because the real democracy is what allows us to live in little and free, with respect to the democratic order of which we have been endowed. Therefore, the best guarantee continues to be the Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy and the conjunction of democratic laws that we have given to all, that are in force and that will continue to be fully in our autonomous community. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.33.0	For the answer is the return, again, of the Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.34.0	Thank you very much, President. The honourable Member has referred to all the questions which were raised at the hearing of the Councillor for the Interior, who requested him to make a request on his own motion to stop public situations and demonstrations which took place on 29 September and 1 October. It was quite worked at the committee, in appearance, I repeat, on my own initiative, of the Councillor d'Interior. And, therefore, I will not repeat today the arguments that he expressed about all the operation and the work that the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Anyway, you've made reference – as you always do – so..., first fan the headline and then you teach the text, right? And he tried to make a holder of a pulley that turned out to be an information pulley from the Department of Interior. This turned out to be the big propaganda. The same way the Interior Department reports when there are traffic disturbances, for example, for these Jusapol demonstrations, and I don't believe, go, I don't think it's equivalent to animating to manifest. Surely, therefore, you know perfectly well, because members of your parliamentary group have manifested themselves, in exercise of their freedom of expression, alongside the participants in this mobilization. It is true that there are collectors in our country who find it harder to access justice, and that this justice responds in an equivalent way. That's right. It is true that, for example, when a police officer sees a banner in Tarragona that says: "Police, go home, I consider it a hate crime; they end up accusing the person who owns that habitat..., in a particular habitation, eh? Therefore, you should defend this, too; you end up imputing it for hate crime and make it pass through a calvary of seven or eight months which, in the end, by fate, therefore, ended up archiving. Miri quina diferencia – urged, therefore, in this case for the prosecution – what happens when a photojournalist of our country, who has portrayed the entire extreme right... – also the one who manifested himself at his side on the street of Barcelona – when he has portrayed the entire extreme right, it is found, therefore, that one day before the street assaults a lord to the cry of « alive Franco. He makes an attack on his nose, which means that he has to pay attention to the health services of our country and, dearly, what a coincidence, which turns out that he ended up accused of having attacked with his nose the punch of a national police officer who was armed with a naval, who fell down the street, and that then, when the citizenry scratched him, he took the plate to defend himself. Therefore, yes, it is true, justice, many times, treats different citizens according to their ideological position. Or the difference between the bonds that are required in proceedings before the Supreme Court, the bonds that are required of Vox, that now I do not know if they are partners or competitors of theirs, and the bonds that are required of associations that can have a political position or of social and ideological compromises of contrary sign, such as the collection of lawyers Rights. Therefore, yes, it is true, justice, unfortunately, treats different. And you have once again made an on-going defense of Spanish democracy, but I think many people can agree that in Spanish democracy there are some aspects, some dark areas... ; that it is no longer a democracy, that in certain aspects, when it comes to the unit of Spain, or when it is about the Crown, here..., that it does exist in other areas of the democratic state and the right of the Spanish State, here it disappears. It must be because of that that the president of the General Council of the Judiciary, at the opening of the judicial year of the past year, told us, that the ultimate foundation of the state of law was the unit of Spain, not the will of the citizenry, not the rights of the citizens, not the rights of the citizenry that a liberal party such as you should defend, but the unit of Spain, that you agree with it, because you are more Spanish nationalists than Spanish liberals. And, finally, Mr. Member, we will always defend the right of everyone to manifest, to manifest with all freedom, to follow the sign that it is. And I think you've made reference to a few situations that occurred three or four weeks ago, in which precisely the performance of the Squadron Mosses was directed in this sense. And what we say to him is that he doesn't mess things up, don't mess people who went with a book on a plaza with an active boycott of a demonstration of the platform you mentioned, we speak Spanish. We talk about it too... always, when you need to communicate. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.35.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Inquiries to the Government on security policies relating to the right to private property]] [[300-00027/12]] And now, the next question to the Government is about security policies relating to the right to private property, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. And Mr Xavier García Albiol spoke about it. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.36.0	Very well, therefore, many thanks, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Today I come to talk to them for two minutes about a serious problem, a problem that affects one part of the people of Catalonia, and also, I mean, the rest of Spain. We are talking about a problem that affects coexistence, which, as I said, suffers a part of the population, but unfortunately it is used to silence. It is used to silence within this dynamic that our country is living, which sometimes leads us to confuse those who are victims with those who cause the problem. And that means that on many occasions these people who are victims of this matter that I will talk to them end up becoming invisible to the administrations, who are the ones who have the responsibility to give an answer to this problem, to this social reality. And I'm talking to them... I'm not talking to them about anything but the illegal occupation of "lives." I already know that some of you may seem strange or think that it is a reality that affects a very specific and very specific part of the population, a very minority of the Catalan population, but unfortunately this is not so. It is not so in large cities, as is the case in Barcelona, some barrels, some districts, some very determined streets, and in a special way this problem has an incidence in municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, in certain barrels, in certain areas, which are causing a quite difficult climate of coexistence. The boonist speech, huh? As I told you a while ago, it leads us on many occasions to confuse what is the victim with the one who ends up causing problems, or which ends up causing these situations to occur. And, before the occupation, we understand, from the People's Party of Catalonia, that there are two answers. A first response, which is the social response, addressed to that part of the population it occupies, or who have given it a "living place, for economic reasons, for social reasons, because they have been named on the part of a bank, and, before these people, before these families that end this occupation, we believe that the response on the part of the administrations must be the social services and try to accompany and care for these people. But on many occasions, I believe that in most – and let me tell you this from my experience as mayor of Badalona – in most cases we are talking not about this profile, but, unfortunately, about a profile that wants to turn the occupation into a business. In an economic negotiation, in a negotiation involving all kinds of mafias, which consists of occupying empty floors, changing the pany and sublodging to some people, so that, obviously, in most cases what they end up causing is conflicts of coexistence, conflicts of inciivism in the same communities. That's why I say to them that many times, and I insist on this subject, the problem of foundations is not that we can get there, because we're on the surface, we're left to understand that all people who illegally occupy a dwelling do so for a social problem, when that's not it. Look, last Tuesday I was gathered in Badalona, on the street Circumval·lacion, which is a border area between Badalona and Santa Coloma de Gramenet, with a _forty, thirty or forty times that are staining the consequences of this illegal occupation. And I can assure you that these people have the feeling of bitterness, they have a feeling of loneliness, since the administrations, together with Badalona, the General of Catalonia, are not at the height of circumstances and do not respond to their demands. These people, of whom they complained, these people who dragged me away – and I want to transfer them to you – is that there is no worse feeling that I cannot live with a certain dignity at your house; there is no worse situation than to sell your life, to missell your life because the climate that causes those people who illegally occupy these habitats ends up causing impossible coexistence. And that, when a person – whether he is a national or a person who has come from outside at any time – is under the obligation to sell, to sell his habitat because of these problems of coexistence and invisibility is when, then, we begin to tend to a real problem, and it is the creation of ghettos, the creation of very specific areas in certain cities, in certain barrels, where coexistence ended up turning into an explosive situation and without mass solution or without mass hope. Why do I ask all these questions here in Parliament, and in a very concrete way to you, Counselor? I know it's not your fault... and you're not the one responsible, and I'm telling you honestly, for this social reality that we're living. But I would ask you that all the folds make a reflection. It's normal, as it happens in the hundred per cent of occasions, that when some people say that in the block where they're living they're busy with a piss, that they're stuck, because they kicked him in the door and walked in fifteen, god, twenty people and they're creating problems of coexistence, I insist, to the community, the answer, so much of urban guard, and especially of Mossos d'Esquadra, so that they can't really do it? Is this a normal response on the part of the Squad and the urban guard? I must tell you that, frankly, under my experience and after speaking to a lot of people who suffer from this problem, this is not the answer, nor that they expect or deserve the visions they want to live with a certain normality at home. Is it normal, is it justifiable that the escorted lives of his administration, who escorted from his police force that can't be made king? We are, I must tell you with all sincerity, given this situation, with a democratic anomaly – with a democratic anomaly – that creates despair and impotence in the affected veins. That is why I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, awareness of this reality, and in a very special way to the Councillor and the members of the Government, that these people, these people who suffer from these problems cannot make them invisible – we cannot make them invisible – because that is what will end up destructuring our cities, our villains, our municipalities, and, in a very special way, causing all these people to lose their confidence in our system, in our demonstration. That's why I wanted to ask you, Counselor, courage to open this debate. Here I am not saying that everyone who occupies, everyone who occupies dwellings is either delinquent, or creates problems of living together, or of inciivism because it is not so. Because there are people who suffer from this problem because it is a social reality, because there are families who have no other option. But with the same sincerity I have to say that a very important part of the people who are occupying the ‘lives do it as a business and have no problem with bittering the rest of the sight that the only one who wants to live in poverty. And that is why, Counselor, I want to ask you this debate with courage; a debate that faces this social reality and, above all, that allows us... I am aware that it is not an exclusive competence of the Parliament of Catalonia, eh? , I am aware that the reality is this, but to open a debate that allows us to react to try to reverse, to try to correct this situation that unfortunately here in Catalonia suffers thousands of men and women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. It's the return now for the answer of the Interior Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.38.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. If you know..., Mr Albiol, if you know that it is not the competence of this Parliament and you want to face the debate with courage, then one of two: either you claim the competence that we have here in Catalonia or you go to do the debate on another side. Do you understand that? I'd like to have..., and that's why I know that I'm defending Catalonia's independence and freedom to have our own competitions, because with the competitions we have in the state, so we don't get out in a lot of trouble. This is one of them, but we have so many others, that so much good from this Parliament to be able to make decisions that are always viewed as a function of the citizenry and not as a function of others. It seems to me that this debate still more than in Parliament still gives it more than twelve kilometres northerly, huh? Which is to a city that is said to be Badalona, of which you have been mayor and of which you are a candidate. And he gave me the feeling that we're doing this basically because you're okay with Badalona. I've seen him in the social media, I've seen him with the intervention he did in a young lady who introduced Citizens about the narcopies, who also talked about it, made the same speech. And now, so, we're back with the same speech. He says he doesn't want to criminalize people, but I think he does a pot-pot and assigns them a lot. And with this I respect him very much, because, and I don't say no to him, there are mafias– there are mafias–, obviously, and there are also narcopies with occupations..., behind these occupations, there are mafias, there are narcopies but there are also other people; people who don't have to live and who have to take a piss in order to live and to have a calm, like at least, that when it rains it isn't mullin. And they're people who at a given time can be respectful with the veins, without any type of problem and not generate any type of problem. But I think you put them all in the same bag, and I think that's unfair – it's unfair. We must, obviously, pursue the occupations, we must pursue them, eh? But we also have to look who's behind us. And, among other things, you know that, for example, before a launch the courts have... – because I say it there, as the president of the Catalan Association of Municipalities, that I 'go ahead, that's it – let's say, don't have to because they don't have the obligation, but we did ask them that before they made a launch that spoke to the social services of the assemblies, to see who was behind that piss. And I'm convinced that if there's a mafia behind it, or there's a narcopis behind it, or there's any situation, let's just say, of illegality or that there's illegality in it, obviously, no one will pose any kind of problem; but then maybe there's some family with minors or with big people, who suffer, and if they do, then they don't know where they're going. And it is true that here the governments, the Government of the Generality, the joints we work hard; since the housing of Councillor Calvet works hard to find alternatives; at the joints we work hard to find alternatives. But let's just say, it's a typical case, and you wanted to sweep them all and I'd like to separate them. He talked about when they were tricked and said, "There's something wrong with the community that's busy and the police have told them, especially the Mosses say there's nothing to do with it. So look, here's a protocol that follows the Mosses in the case, I say, textually, "for the warning of a third alien to the property, eh? – from a third alien to the property. In these cases the management to be carried out is the following: identification of the applicant and completion of his relationship with the immovable; if the manifestation is relevant he will collect the statement of manifestation or he will be quoted to the commissioner to collect the statement. Two: identification of the persons who have achieved the occupation whenever possible after assessing the success and the police risks that are assumed. Three: managements with the immobiliser's veins to obtain information about the owner. Obviously, you know, if you've been mayor, you know, an out-of-pocket authorizes a judge depending on whether the owner makes the complaint or doesn't make the complaint, okay? With this information the attestation will be instructed with the corresponding criminal characterization and a copy identified the owner, whether natural or legal person, will follow the same operation as in the case of the triggering of the same complaint of the injured person. So it does the same thing. Now they can't make a complaint and act like owners, but they have to do the same. So, it's not that you're not doing anything, there's a protocol to follow, and there's a protocol to follow, okay? That some of the visions that have occupied some habitation can be annoying? Yes, but it doesn't have to be the result of an occupation. You can live in a community where you can have a few lives that you have bought or rented your piss and can be just as annoying. So, let's just say, wanting to sweep all this up to get in... I think, huh? "I think so," then, if you want to correct me, "take a political return for the month of May of the year that sees that there are municipal elections, so I don't think it's just been... When we say" face the debate, so let's face it in truth, but not to see things that seem to me – now it's clear to me – that there's after all this and it's not finding a solution. And, finally, respect the dislocations, you know that the police of Catalonia, like the rest of the police, are acting at the request of the politicians, obviously, but also at the request of the judges, huh? , go by court orders or by political orders, to hear us. All the launches he's a fan is a fan by court order, all right? Therefore, here too there is a lot of way to go, if you want. But, I repeat, this whole path must follow it, let's say, unfortunately, not in this chamber, but it must, unfortunately, follow it in another chamber which is that of the Congress, which is what you have ruled for a long time with an absolute majority and it seems to be the problem now, when just you are four months away from running for a few elections in Badalona. Therefore, I am willing to face the debate, but let's face it well, nothing later, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply has the word Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.40.0	Mr. Counselor, I have tried to bring in a debate from which I have tried to extrude the political burden and lay a social reality. For your answers, I must say, with all due respect, that you do not seem to know what is going on. Because, if your argument is to say, "You, Mr Albiol, have come here to defend something that is happening in Badalona because it is presented to the mayor of Badalona and you are going to talk about a local problem... No, no, it's not this way. I'm talking about Badalona, because I know Badalona, but I could talk about the Hospitallet, I could talk about Santa Coloma de Gramenet, I could talk about some districts of Barcelona that suffer from the problem of housing. And let me say to you that: "Home, which we cannot do, that if we were independent we could do it... So, listen, what I want to say, this song to me seems to me that when we are talking about a social problem, with sincerity, it is not the answer – and less so as I have raised this question – under my point of view, which you must convey to us. When I say that you make me feel that you don't know what's going on in some areas of Catalonia, I say it as an intellectual reflection and I say it with sincerity. Clearly, that you say that this may be that, as I pointed out, in some cases it may be possible to act mafias in occupations, so, well, that might already be. No, Mr. Counselor, it's not that it can be, it's that I can assure you that, in most cases, the occupations come from the hands of the mafias that negotiate with the logger of habitats that are occupied, the vast majority; the vast majority. And, in cases where a "living place" is occupied by a family that has just lost theirs for a denunciation, these cases are minority; it's the opposite of what you think; the reality is the opposite. And the problems, usually, the problems of coexistence, because, in this country, by fate, listening, the citizens have no problems either of xenophobia, or of racism... When one "lives and in this" lives or sees another sees and with this sees there is no problem of coexistence, if any, there are no problems of coexistence, there are no problems of inequality, there is no social conflict, there is no conflict between life, the conflict occurs when this occupation sees..., when these problems of coexistence come from the hands of an illegal occupation, which is in most cases; and this is most of the cases. And it's something that I'd like you, as a counselor, if you want, to go for a walk one day and I'll teach you, the harbor by the streets, above all, to talk to the affected vehicles and it seems to me that it would be a didactic exercise that would go well to know this reality. You have read us the protocol of performance of the Mosso d'Esquadra and I say to you: "To me, the one that worries me, precisely, is this protocol; or, then, that there are a series of people who kick a door, they are in the piss; let's see, the Mosso d'Esquadra come and, listen, prove that if the person who filed the complaint makes a report to us. Then, if they want, those who have taken the piss, if they want, identify themselves and, then, then, well, the owner already, if he wants, will file a complaint. So, for me, that's not an answer. And if that's not an answer for me, Counselor, imagine hoping they'll see the problem. Therefore, I would ask you that, from the competences and from the legislative capacity and the capacity of influence that this Parliament of Catalonia and the Government of Catalonia has, we study what possibilities, we study what measures we can take to respond to this social problem. I pointed out, because, man..., and in this respect, it seems to me that you, therefore, have also been in the right line. Here, there are two realities. There is the reality of that, as we pointed out, that family that is deboned and loses its habitat and, here, there is already a response on the part of the Social Servants and, normally, there is an answer on the part of the Social Servants of the Assembly, of the same Generality, but after that, there must also be a police response or a guarantee of coexistence in these spaces, because, normally, the one who suffers from the problem – and I ended up – are not people with a much higher purchasing power or high-income people; normally, who is patenting these problems of illegal occupation are humble people, but deserve the same dignity that you or I can have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the reply has the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.42.0	Thank you, President. Dignity, all, all for everyone, huh? Mr. Albiol, for everyone. If I have told you what I said to you is, basically, because you, in the previous plenary, in which, I remind you, there is a motion from Ciutadans that speaks of "asking the Government about the occupation of immovables for the duration of illegal activities. You talk about Badalona, you talk about Badalona, you don't talk about illegal activities, you talk about Badalona. I, therefore, see that you have the tendency, lately, it seems – I don't know, I don't say – that it's more concerned about Badalona than it is about the escho that you're occupying, but I can be wrong because... Well, we'll see that, right? But it makes me feel, and that's a clear example, isn't it? He said to me, "You will not be buried as a king of what is going on. Well, then, maybe yes, I don't know what's going on, but in any case, I'm asking you that, because you might know, I'm going back to read one of the sentences you said, because you misinterpreted it – whether you want to or not – when you say that: "If the occupants want to identify... I didn't say that, because I read it, the fate is that I read it. He says: "Identification of the people who have made the occupation, whenever possible. Basically, because if they're inside they can identify, if they're outside, no. See if it's easy. It's not if they want to or don't want to; no, the police don't ask: "Listen, do you want to be identified? No, the police identify and are already, and the people who are there, the result of a third party complaint that the police, at that time, don't know whether or not they're actually busy with that shit, don't know. I don't know whether the owner has rented it or not, I don't know, I don't know at the time and so statements have to be made and spoken to the owner. I know you're more of a knock on the door and I act because I'm the boss. So no, look, here we are in a democracy, we have to make sure that things aren't fan like this. I say it again, because you say, "Listen, let's face it with the legislative capacity we have. Ah, so, unfortunately, it wasn't the crying song, it's that here, in this, we don't have competitions, which has them the State, which has them the State, and you have ruled, including with an absolute majority. Moreover, if a change was made to the law a while ago, basically, it was on the proposal of another parliamentary group, not theirs. So, you seem to be worried about things only when you're interested and not always, right? So, well... he didn't convince me, he didn't convince me. He made me feel like he was looking for something else. He says: "Mafias are the vast majority of occupations. Well, then, you know for sure. Okay, so, they won't tell me, but I'd love for you to tell me. How many complaints have you made? You, who know Mafia activities. You went to the squadron's station and attended it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! And he went to the police station and reported...? Okay, so, listen, let's share them, can share them with me and I'll ask you how the situation is, see how many you haven't done and stopped doing, if, really, you have any knowledge of this criminal activity. You yourself have spoken of xenophobia; here, no one has spoken of xenophobia; you have spoken of it. You talked about it, maybe the subconscious betrayed him. He said: "The problems of coexistence come... He said: "The problems of coexistence come for the occupied floors. Listen to me, we have problems living with veins and veins every day. I've been mayor for years and I've had problems living together every day with veins and veins, it's normal – it's normal –. From here, say that the problems of living together come from the occupied floors, man, I think it's gone! He got to the crow and didn't brake, you pulled straight. Home! Obviously, there are occupied floors– I'll tell you again – that yes, they can obviously lead to problems of coexistence, but there are floors that are not occupied and also lead to problems of coexistence. So it makes me feel like I'm going to make a nice little bang, which is to say, "Listen to me, this is a problem – that I don't say no, it's a problem, but it has different fonts, that's what we agree on, huh? Okay? "But it is a problem for my city, so I take it and say that they are problems of coexistence, that behind them there are mafias and, therefore, we act, there..., because of my Dalonsis. Well, I don't think he's going this way; I don't think he's going this way. We can make changes, we can actually make changes, we can make them, but unfortunately, not in yours, we have to go to another one of yours. And I hope and wish that you, that you make this proposal and this debate that you want to do it with all the rigor and with all the will to respect all people, and you do it in Congress, not with the will to settle, I believe, a group of people that sometimes have no right to be appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into corporate support policies]] [[302-000012/12]] Let us now turn to the division of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the policies of support to the enterprise. Presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, to expose it, has the parable of the deputy Ms.Alícia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.44.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. Well, so, we did an inquiry, now it's been a few months – I don't know if we remember why it was in July. In this question, we asked Consul Chacón, who for the moment has not arrived, a series of reflections about the political situation that she experienced during the month of October and that was provoked, or caused legal insecurity and economic uncertainty, in fact, in the economic world, in the world of enterprises. This was quite clear, basically, because, for a few months, for different reasons – about what we won't agree on and I don't want to get into this, and I don't think that's what this young man's motive is – there was the consequence that many of these companies changed their social, important, IBEX businesses, but also small, peppered, and therefore this element seemed to us that, like the government, it was very important because there was a certain sensitivity to how, what had happened, why this move and see if there were any of these businesses returning. Above all, because – I gave the councillor that day – this will have economic effects on taxes, that is to say, the companies pay the IRPF there where they have their own company and, therefore, they will end up paying it to Alacant, if they have moved there, or to Madrid or to any other place and it is true that VAT is a centralised tax, but when an analysis is made of the autonomous financing system, it takes into account the VAT of the companies that are in your territory and, therefore, if they move their business, it is possible that this is not imputable. What we asked of him is that you analyze this, that the government, see the situation, can analyze this and, more importantly, that can, too, develop, right? , or pull forward or design an agreement, a plan to try to get the maximum number of companies to return. Our young lady was on this line, first, one, which is giving information, because to us it seems to us that it is important that the councillor, first, recognize an information that came out in a medium, which, in concrete terms, was the Journal. It is, that said that there had been a report in October 2017 of the same consultancy, in concrete terms, of the Department of Industry, of which she was, precisely, the Director General, a report in which it was said that there had been unrest on the part of the companies during that month of October. This report exists, obviously, in the summary, in the judicial process that has started all over the subject of '1 October, but we have seen it, it is a report that exists, the Government, already told us the other day the councilwoman that was not so, that there was no one, but we have seen it, and, in any case, when, during the judicial process, this report comes out, they will give the appropriate explanations. In any case, a document was made, it was given an information to the counselor, because you know that at that time there was an uneasiness to the companies; some had stopped investments and, therefore, to us this seems rather difficult as it is because the firm's consultancy has given time to reflect on this and, above all, to ask for answers and solutions so that these companies will come back. Therefore, our young man went on this line; one, who explained to us what the October report was; two, who came to explain to us also the report that the council did and which he presented to us in September on which type of company had left, of five sectors, because it seemed important to us also to know this. And then there's a third pot, which is if the council is already holding meetings, finding out with companies, knowing who these are..., who these are, what the results are giving, because we can also have information and, when you say we're very catastrophic, if we have, maybe, positive information, not so much, huh? According to Constellera Chacón, I'm going back to say, today, it's not here yet. So, information, transparency, which seems to me to be key in a state, right? , and in a democratic country like Catalonia. It is true that the councilwoman came, a few days ago, to compare with the Commission d'Empresa, but she did not explain what she was playing that day; therefore, we could not do the debate she was playing. Because he came to explain, in theory, that last year's report, but he explained another one. Therefore, the Members were not able to make a good reflection, a good debate about what he was playing. We ask you to come, now yes, to explain the two reports separately. And then, what we are asking for is that you make a great deal of agreement for the recovery of Catalonia's trust and reputational credibility, which seems important to us so as to restore stability, of course, legal certainty, which is what businesses need, very often, when they have to decide their investment, their move to a country, as Catalonia could be. Therefore, it is simply a motion to say: "Let us give information, let us recognize the situation, try to give answers and design policies because the situation is back where it was. It's not drama, it's not catastrophe, it's simply what a politician has to do: to recognize and know the situation in order to solve the problem. And that's what our lady does. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, to defend the papers presented, it is the turn of the groups, and in this case, initially, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The word "Mr. José María Cano".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.46.0	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Deputies, good afternoon. I would have liked the councillor to have been here today too, but unfortunately she's not here. This is a motion on policies to support businesses, and that, because of the content of Mrs Romero's inquiry and the wording of the motion itself, the aim is for the companies that have expelled the process to return. And apparently, both the members of the PSC and we agree on one thing: this flight of companies is motivated by the legal instability and institutional instability to which Catalan society and the economy are subjected. But that's where we end our coincidences with the PSC. Because listening to the speeches of the PSC, this situation, for socialists, seems to fall from the sky. One day, the entrepreneurs stood up and said: "Ostras, it makes a sense of legal insecurity. And they also think it's not very worrying. His own minister said it was a consumable thing. From Ciutadans, however, we say it clearly: the main problem of the Catalan economy and the cause of the flight of thousands of companies is the process. And it's a situation to worry about, and a lot. In this motion, quite naively on the part of the PSC, what is argued is that, in order to begin to deal with the problem, those who struck democracy a year ago have to land in reality and start respecting our democracy and our institutions. Without those premises, do not be deceived – and do not be deceived –, gentlemen of the PSC..., without those premises there is no solution, there is no possible solution. But that's not gonna happen. Because the process is a modus vivendi, as we have always said. Lords of the process, with you we have a great slab; a great slab that comes from afar. The Catalans have fallen for all the evils that from the point of view of bad political practice can fall on a prosperous region. Check the list. The Catalans have suffered one of the biggest plots of organized corruption; we have suffered the party of 3 percent, which year after year is renamed and changed of name; we have suffered forty years of policies of friends; we have suffered the waste of its management... Examples like Spanair – 120_million_de_euros –; the line 9_de_metro, budgeted at 2,500_million_de_euros and that will surely cost more than 16,000_million_de_euros, and what is to come, as for example the ATLL. And in case with corruption, the politics of friends and the waste of their management were not enough, starting in 2012 they add the process, causing social fracture and intensifying the creation of chiringuitos for as much friends as they have. But, of course, all this you've assembled has to be paid for. And all the evils are accompanied by the cruelest cuts in health, cuts in education, cuts in social issues; it is accompanied by the middle classes and Catalan workers being the ones who pay the most taxes from all over Spain, and it is accompanied by an insurmountable debt, which is a garbage bond, above the 78,000_million_of_euros. And to end, as if all this were not hard enough, they took a step further and subjected the companies to the constant threat of unilaterality. At that time, they put the process fully into the lives of businesses, in the lives of multinationals, in the lives of SMEs and in the lives of self-employed people, forcing them to react urgently to defend their interests. The most agile in their decisions were obviously those who have the most resources and those who have experience with what happens in countries with politicians who skip the laws. I am talking about multinationals, which have contingency plans for their establishments in the banana republics; contingency plans that put in place before politicians who threatened to sow chaos. They threatened to paralyse the economy, as the counselor pointed out, with the risk of not complying with customers and suppliers, forcing them to look for alternatives to the desperate, to look for production plants outside Catalonia; they threatened with road cuts– « Apreteu, presseu... – and that, moreover, the products could not reach destination. ANC and Omnium were already threatening boycotts. There's a long, long line of threats. And the companies that were able to get their top administrative body out of Catalonia and set up their head office outside. And his second, and most serious, decision was to paralyse the investments and consider making out of Catalonia. As the data show, foreign investment in Catalonia has been a year and a half of consecutive declines. And that affects our economy and employment, they're going to be jobs that aren't going to be created. The BBVA already estimates them in more than thirty_ thousand, those that have not been created. Look, both the SMEs, which are 95_per_cent of the business fabric, and their fellow citizens do not have these contingency plans. And what comes to them, if they don't change their drift, is crisis. I ask you not to name the Catalan economy in vain, not to breastfeed, not to wear medals. You are not part of your success; you are your main problem. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mrs Lluïsa Llop's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.48.0	Thank you, President. Vice President..., good morning to everyone and everyone. We find ourselves in front of a text that presents us with a motion of policies to support the company, but that speaks more of supposed reports and of contributing to a report of economic catastrophe that does not provide practical measures because our companies can go forward better. The young lady insists on asking for reports that the company advisor, who today does not accompany us at these times, has systematically told them that they do not exist, that there is no report; that this report is nothing more than a follow-up of electronic mail that a department group is dedicated to interacting to monitor and to be able to respond to the concerns and needs of Catalan companies and foreign investors. Let us not forget: concerns about Catalan entrepreneurs and foreign investors provoked by a strong operation that came from the Spanish State to destabilise our economy. An operation that came from the Spanish State, which started with a massive withdrawal of bank deposits from the Bank of Sabadell and from « La Caixa, which in one day lost 2,000_million euros. It is not that "the Box and Bank of Sabadell were having contingency plans to get out of countries of banana republics, it is that they are some companies that have found themselves in a situation of mass withdrawal from public enterprises linked to the Government of the State, which – oh, by chance! – they returned all of these deposits – almost 90_per_cent – when these companies decided to change their company outside Catalonia. Therefore, they did not react to a situation of instability in the country, they reacted to a political situation that they imposed on them from the Spanish State through an orchestrated operation. If we talked about this in a private activity and it wasn't what we're talking about, I'm sure I'd be typified in the penal code and we'd be talking about coercion or even blackmail, which led Catalan companies to leave our country. This irresponsible strategy of withdrawal of bank deposits continued, coming to change the legislation so that businesses could leave without delay and for an express pipeline. Does the group of Esquerra worry that a company in Catalonia tanqui or a company in Catalonia marxi? So, of course we're worried, I'd just miss it. Yes, we are aware that this orchestrated operation from the Spanish State was not exactly a success. And we don't say it, they say the data, the studies and the facts that we can resort to. Given that the IDF Markets of the Financial Times has placed Catalonia as the best region to invest in southern Europe in the years 2018 and 2019– data. Realities that companies continue to come: Facebook, Amazon, Lidl, Nestlé, Microsoft, Moodle, Hard Rock, the Japanese Denso, have announced or have already made investments in Catalonia since last October. All these companies don't see anything unsettled. The data also reflect this: already in the first half of 2018 there have been sixty-eight foreign investment projects, which involve an investment of 1,648_million at home and, more importantly, 7,500 places of work. So, and speaking first of all of the points of the motion, where you, the Socialist Party and Forward Units, make constructive proposals, you will find us on the agenda of the Republican Group. That is why we will vote in favour of point 2, so that we can present the strategy of attracting investments, and we will vote in favour of point 4.b, to present the report that, as you know, is already public – already on the website of the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge – on the changes of its social enterprises from Catalan enterprises. We won't give support to point 1 because we deny the Major. I can't regain a confidence that we've just exposed and the facts say it hasn't been lost in the Catalan economy. Therefore, a plan that they propose to us..., and that we understand more than doing this plan..., is the national plan for industry, than what we need to do is implement it. And lastly, I will tell you that we will not feed the disaster nor help cover up the economic destabilization operation that the Government of the Spanish State invented. And you know it's hard, Socialist Party gentlemen, that you've come down so joyfully. We will present a motion for a resolution to the Commission of Enterprise, where we will ask explanations to those who have not given any, by explanation, that is the Spanish Government. They make the Spanish government, that its current president, explain what the former government did with its support and, therefore, give explanations as to why Catalan companies left, framed within this policy of persecution. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.49.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. All followed is the return of the Parliamentary Group of Juntas to Catalonia. It's Mr. Jordi Munell's turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.50.0	All right, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, vice president, lords and lords. Well, in that case, I'm not going to go too far with the data that Congresswoman Llop has already donated. In fact, from Juntes for Catalonia and the Republican Group we were going to present, therefore, a proposal for drafts so that we could get to a deal and be able to approve a set of points. It has not been possible and, therefore, we ask for a separate vote from these points proposed by the PSC Group and Units for Progress. And, as Mrs. Llop said, so we have stated that we would vote yes in point 2 and in point 4b. In fact, the point 2 we ask that can be presented, therefore, in committee or in plenary of the Parliament, on behalf of the council, the data and information regarding the strategy of capturing and attracting investments and entrepreneurs to Catalonia. Obviously, the action of Catalonia Trade and Investment, or of Action, to the Directorate General of Industry, which has allowed, for example, to capture, for example, the year 2017, the highest amount of foreign investments, or 2018, as MP Llop also said, until the first semester, until July, until the sixty-night, also, investment projects. What is working, as the councillor also reported to the last committee, up to four hundred projects or expedients opened in portfolio of interested companies, therefore, in reverse, in growth or coming to settle in Catalonia. We will therefore vote in favour at this point in presenting this report. And we would also vote to submit a report, which, in fact, is public, which is the report on the effects of corporate transfers. In this sense of concern..., concern of the Republican Group, concern of the Junts Group for Cat, and also concern of the Socialist Group, which has also presented it, isn't it? Therefore, it is a public report, which is attached to the department's website: "Effects of social transfers in the productive economy in Catalonia, in which all these themes that we have before us, of the effects of VAT, the effects of the payment of taxes, for the sake of these changes of their social or fiscal rather than of their productive ones, are manifest, also as was evidenced by the commission. We would also vote that no to item 2a, pushed or attached for the PP, in which it also asked, therefore, the themes of guarantees, of security for tourism and raise negative recommendations. In fact, in the late plenary there was a motion on tourism of the Ciutadans group; in that case, the deputy Roquer spread a lot and explained also, therefore, that tourism, 2016, a 3,4_% increase, 18_million tourist visitors; 2017, 19_million visitors, with an increase of 5% of foreign tourism respects 2016 and, what is more important, an increase of 10% of tourist spending, following the strategy of Tourism of Catalonia: diversifying markets and betting for quality tourism, for tourism of more value added. Here we will see 2018 what happens, but they are not all effects derived, therefore, from this catastrophe that some want to pose continuously on the table of what passed 2017. 2017 passed, apart from '1 October and 27 October, the effects of August 17 and 18 also went badly, but 2018 will also see effects on the table, when female competitiveness and female tourism statistics. In 2018, in fact, it was also pointed out by the tourist director of the Barcelona Assembly, when he gave xifra record also of congresses and meetings in Barcelona, he spoke of the concerns of 2018: the effect of the image of the keepers, the waves of the air controllers of the south of France, the vag of the taxi in Barcelona, the vag of some airlines, or, for example, the recovery of some other fates alternating with the Mediterranean. Therefore, all these are effects that we will see in 2018; but in no case do we think that we can attribute to what happened here in October and to all this process that we are starting in Catalonia to become a good state. For what he does to the other points, this report, therefore, already, which is repeated, he informed the Commission that this report did not exist as such. In any case, there may be documents, there may be emails created. In any case, the same adviser, who had seven Director General of Industry, repeatedly reported that this report does not exist. Therefore, we will vote that we will not confirm this existence, and we will vote that we will not continue to present it, therefore, in Parliament's plenary or in the Committee on Enterprise. Finally, also, for what it refers to the Councillor's findings with the companies that changed their social or fiscal system, while the same one will advise in different media has announced that these meetings and talks have started, in any case, there are all terms, as you will understand, of confidentiality, huh? , which do not allow this information to be disclosed. In any case, we are also convinced that at these times what is happening in the conjunct of the State, therefore, causes some of these companies to be convinced that they will only want to return. In fact, when you go around the world and explain that you are located in a country of reference like Barcelona, Catalonia, with a business climate of foreign investment, of attracting talent, of technology, of start-ups, therefore, it can be an added value; but if, in change, you say that you are located, according to Spain, with images of police violence against the citizenry, with an image of justice, really, that it is a real shame, with images for example of the Royal House very unfortunate, right? , with the reprobation of the Emeritus king, but the effect also of the king, who has lost credibility from his speech of October 3rd; a country that kept political prisoners, a country that had to have people exiled not to go to prison, not only political, but also artists or singers. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not a good picture for many companies. And, therefore, we are convinced that for them alone they will want to return to Catalonia more than we would like them from the Council and from the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.52.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm starting to make this intervention a little more concerned that when this young man's debate began, because with the intervention of the Republican Left spokesman it seemed to me that from the majority groups, from the groups that support the government, there was a lack of vision of reality, which we know is in many respects; we didn't know that it was also in the economic aspect, but Mr. Munell has already left me completely concerned, right? Because if you say that the process has only begun, it has only begun, and it has had all the consequences that it has had, so that..., better than cure ourselves in salvation for what can come in the future more immediately. To me, if I may, without wanting to give them the guitar and give them the day, I will give them data, objective data, real data. You're talking about the Financial Times. I, if you want, I'll talk to you about the Financial Times too, very quickly. Mirin, companies leaving Catalonia, between October 5th and October 27th: two thousand companies from Catalonia. Inversions. There have been investments in Catalonia, obviously, and fortunately there have been investments. Now, look at the global investment data: fourth quarter of 2017, drop of 45,7_per_cent; first quarter of 2018, drop of 61,4_per_cent; second quarter of 2018, drop of 16_per_cent; global drop of the first half of 2018, of that semester that you are so satisfied, global drop of 40_per_cent. Home, so, listen, maybe it's worth the attention we give and something we do. Moreover, it seems to you that they do not care, to us yes, that countries like Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada or Austria refer to their citizens who do not travel to Catalonia because of the risk of conflict there is, when these countries are the issuers of 30_% of tourists who come to Catalonia, listen to us, to us, and to you too should worry. You're a lot of times with the articles that are published in the Financial Times, but you'd think you'd read something more than the headline. The same article in the Financial Times says: "Ecculti'm, the tourism sector is running into tickets. And, therefore, I think it's worth stopping attention to everything that doesn't work properly. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I said the article in the Financial Times! Read it – read it, read it. It's good to read, it's good to learn things. That's what the Financial Times article says, but it's more like a reality, isn't it? So, man, I think it's worth stopping attention on all these dates and trying to fix it. Remeis, what are they? They also point to the motion: legal security and political stability...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.53.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.54.0	It's over, President. And the truth, with this government, and above all with its president, that every time it opens its mouth, what it does is precisely contribute that there is no legal certainty or political instability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão, Mr. Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.56.0	Thank you, President. Members and Members, at a year's notice of what has probably been the most tense of Catalonia's recent history, we should already find ourselves all at the door of opening a new stage for the country; a new stage that needs to be completed with the situation of democratic exceptionality that Catalonia still sees, and in which we must be able to build together a democratic agenda for the conjunction of Catalonia's citizenship. Listening to some speeches today and yesterday, I have the feeling that in the same way that there are people listening to the music that I was listening to when I was a teenager to see if it awakens the same emotions, there are political groups that come with the same incendiary speeches to see if they manage to get as excited as the past year. We believe that no, who today wants to live in a constant battle, in breaking politics, in bringing here and to the Congress speeches closer to the reactions of the thirties, accusing of hitting me and demanding 155 a week yes and a week also, show, above all, that they have no more project for their country than trying to prolong the political and democratic blockade in Catalonia. The Government of 155 and its Taronja cross today are attached to the opposition. Today they have no more political objective than blocking the dialog with Catalonia and blocking the plural majority of the Congress. Today's challenge is no longer to do so, but to jointly lead a democratic agenda for Catalonia and Spain. And this new stage is necessary to put light and stenographers on everything that happened in Catalonia during the late part of last year, and I get it back: everything that happened in Catalonia last year. We need to look at the past to control ourselves and to demand that it is governments with honesty, to demand that we no longer cling to the past to avoid taking on the challenges of the future. We compared the councillor last week, because we gave explanations about the report published by Eldiario. it's that he's stuck to public opinion about the uneasiness of businesses. And, given that in that appearance he did not answer most of the questions and gave explanations about the report, we asked him by writing that he sent the reports and that he answered the questions he had pending, because if he had done so last week, we would probably not be here debating the same, that it is nothing else to require you to stop hiding information from the city of Catalonia. We will give support to this young man, but we say now that he is short to do..., to draw black on white on which the late one of last year happened: to demand transparency is to demand that the Government inform me about why it hid information from the citizen of Catalonia about the uncertainty of the enterprises; but it is also to demand to know what consequences the express decree of the People's Party has made to facilitate the flight of enterprises. And, certainly, the Socialist Party's companies, which now also have responsibilities to govern Spain, demanding transparency is also demanding to know whether the State has ordered it to withdraw from public enterprises such as ADIF, Renfe, Ports de l'Etat or Spanish Radiotelevision of the Sabadell Bank in a single day to force its departure from the country, or demanding clarity, if, as Eldiario also published. It is true that, and I read it textually: "The chairman of the SEAT works committee recognizes political and monarchical pressures for the change of head office. I believe that today, in particular, the Catalan groups that we agreed to take out the People's Party should assume a democratic compromise with the future of Catalonia. Who wants to make politics of fronts does not steal a government of progress to Spain, nor a multi-national Spain, nor wants to unlock Catalonia. Those who don't want one thing or the other feed them the opacity, the leaks, the rumors and the confrontation. We assume to put black on white and that the exercise of transparency and self-criticism that we all have to make is also a compromise that governs the new political stage that we have to open up to the country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.58.0	President, to speak from the escho, and we will do so much faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.59.0	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.60.0	In the first place... – thank you, President – in the first place, no measures are put in place in this young person is related to the support of the company, which is the title of the young person. What are the companies in this country telling us? That they need easy access to credit, that is allows business continuity before crisis that can have a conjunctural character, a powerful policy of reindustrialisation, promotion of productivity or digital policies. Therefore, in this young man, there is absolutely nothing, because, obviously, it is not a young man designed for businesses, it is a young man designed for certain businesses that are the majority of IBEX 35, not just all of them, and those who accompany IBEX 35 to the support of 155. We no longer liked the motion with the text that the Socialist Group had originally tabled, but now, with the views of the People's Party and Citizens, we like less. First point: they speak expressly of restoring and guaranteeing legal security, infrastructure and knowledge generation. Does the Socialist Group really think that companies in this country are legally insecure? Do you think so? Think you don't, don't think about it. According to the point: it is very good that it is concerned about the negative news that appear in certain states of the world about the situation in Catalonia, but what is determining is to go to the causes of these negative news, which are obviously certain political groups and certain information or communication groups that follow a vision that is absolutely skewed from what passes to the Principality. Thirdly: we say this with all kinds of respect, but it is absolutely strange to us that in a case we want to confirm the absence or existence of a report. This is a scientific exercise. The report either exists or does not exist, but in a young person we vote that exists or does not exist there is no sense. And four points: Look, we could be absolutely in favour of the councilwoman's information on who she's meeting with and what they're saying. But at this point, the fourth, you ask for something else, and you ask, literally, "in relation to the September 19th report, and they say, "On the effects of the shift of enterprises in the productive economy. And this is not the title of the September 19th report. The title of the September 19th report is: "Effects of the transfer of its social workers into the productive economy in Catalonia. Therefore, they do not play with a reality that is their social with what it means to move a company. And if they play, then, they give all the data, and the data are that only a 0.59_per_cent of the companies moved their social, that's not good news, but that has their causes. And we want to tell the Socialist Group one last question, with all due respect. It seems to us that when you approach the People's Party Group, what happens is that they are radicalizing with an ultra speech, and we see things like yesterday in Congress: Pedro Sánchez is responsible and a participant in the coup d'état. That's what they're causing, because they're leaving them another speech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.61.0	Congressman... [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Congressman. Now, to pronounce on the exams, has the word again the deputy Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.62.0	Miri, Mr. Aragonese, on September of last year, on September 6 and 7 of last year, broke the law in force, broke with the State and broke with the Spanish Constitution, and that's it. [[Widow's remorse.]] And that caused... no, now you're gonna tell me no. Oh, and what did they do on September 6th and 7th, walk around here? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] No, no, You broke the law in force, and that generated legal insecurity and political instability. And this has had bigger, smaller consequences, you will now want to minimize them. Yeah, listen'm, if it sounds good to me, every one you do whatever you think you have to do. But you know what's happening to him, Mr. Vidal Aragonese, that you're not in government, and a government that has to do is to know what happened, to put black on white, to analyze reality, and from here to put solutions. That's why there are governments, to give answers to problems. It seems to him that 4,500 companies that have changed their business are few, but it is an important figure. And, therefore, what a government has to do is analyze it, and try to put solutions and answers. That's what governments have to do. And that's what the Socialist Party is trying to say; which is not Ciutadans, which continues with the confrontation, and continues with the raca-raca, because it was good enough not to put solutions and just criticize and continue to face us. And the same thing that happens to the CUP, obviously, and to Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra, listening to his speeches today. Listen to me, we put solutions to things, but it's that you're not putting them. Keep up with your speech. I don't think it would be bad for us to open a little eyes, accept and recognize reality, and ask for solutions. One more thing. It's been a while, Mr. Maragall here drew the flag of transparency and information, but a big flag, huh? Very big. And here today you won't approve of submitting some reports. Now they're not reports, now they're data, now they're emails, now they're information. Well, I don't like the format. They're coming to tell us what they were working on, commenting on the October of last year. Yes, Mr. Chacón, that you have not been here in the whole debate, I have to say, and you to the committee – and you to the committee – said that there was information and mail; so, come explain to them, that this is what we are asking for. And, listen, if a report was submitted by September, what we are asking is that we could have come to explain it before Parliament, which knows that it is a matter of concern to parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.63.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. We shall proceed to the vote. Some group had asked for a separate vote, if they can repeat it, please. A group head...? [[Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Alamany, say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.64.0	Separate vote 2 bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.65.0	Well, then we'll vote... [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Pujol?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.66.0	President, we also call for a separate vote on point 2 and 4.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.67.0	I'm sorry, did he say the 2nd and the...? Excuse me, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.68.0	See, we're voting separately for everything, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.69.0	All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all In any case, Mrs Romero, it was not clear whether she accepted the papers or not, or who accepted, in her final intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.70.0	Yes; I have accepted the Ciutadans and the People's Party. [[Widow's remorse. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.71.0	Well, then, we'll vote with the incorporated papers, as the Member has announced now; the five points of this young man separately, every point, huh? So... [[Pause.]] Can we move on to the vote? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Say'm, Miss Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.72.0	Apart from the five points that it has also spelled out for separate 2 and 2 bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.73.0	We'll vote on it all separately at last, huh? So, let's start voting point number one. The vote begins. In this vote 64 votes in favour, 64 against and no abstentions were put to the vote. So let us proceed to vote again on this point 1 of the motion. The vote begins. This point was approved by 65 votes to 64, with no abstentions. Let's now vote for the number two point of the motion, the two. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on the 2 bis– 2 bis point. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. This point was approved by 65 votes to 64, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point four and get past this young man. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Have you asked for a separate vote on the subpoints as well? I've been told a few points. Subpoints, too? So we vote separately on the subpoints. Anyway, they're always specific if they're subpoints, too, huh? Let's proceed to vote, therefore, on the 4th point of the motion – 4th. The vote begins. This point was approved by 65 votes to 64, with no abstentions. Let's vote point number 4.b– 4.b. The vote begins. This point was approved by 126 votes to three, with no abstentions. Now we're going to vote on point 4.c, and now we're going to vote on point 4.c. The vote begins. This point was approved by 65 votes to 64, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] We suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.74.0	MPs, MPs, good afternoon. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the child poverty]] [[302-000013/12]] We continue with the dinovè point of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the question to the Government on the poor children, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. To expose it has the word Ms. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.75.0	Well, good afternoon. At the beginning of the question that I made in July and that gave little to this young man, I asked the councillor, but I also asked the whole chamber: how unequal and how poor are we prepared to endure as a society and how ineffective are the social policies that try to deal with it? This was the subject of the inquiry, focused on that most striking and unbearable part of the inequality that exists in our country: that of the poor child. About a third of Catalonia's child population is at risk of poverty; one third is said to be fast. With the rebuffs on this motion that we have presented, I have been struck by the unpleasant surprise that the majority of Parliamentarians who support the explicit government, in some way, who accepts the poor child as inevitable. With the first thought they have presented, at the first point of our youth, they come to say that they will increase the resources for the poor child if the poor child increases. Mirin, deputies and deputies of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra: the problem exists, now, and can't wait any longer. There are children who only eat a decent bed at school; there are children who cannot buy school material; there are children who suffer from poor energy and cannot bathe with hot water. And that happens today at the barrel of Catalonia. We cannot wait for an increase in the child poverty to increase the presupposition for this. It's not bearable for us. Nor is it to maintain the inefficiency of social policies which try to implement it. The data of the same Idescat say that during the past year social transfers only managed to reduce the risk of poverty in the smaller population of Catalonia by 15_per_cent. This xifra, compared to what happens in other states, in other sectors of the population, shows us the ridiculousness of public policies, the inefficiency of public policies to attack the poor child. In persons older than sixty-five years, social transfers reduce the risk of poverty by 82_per_cent; in childhood, only 15_per_cent. That means he's an inefficient political fan. It's inverting a little, and it's inverting a little, and it's inverting a little. Therefore, do not serve us the considerations of "continue to push..., "continue to implement... You cannot continue to make; like a change, like a radical change. When one thing is wrong, it is not a matter of continuing to insist on doing the same. We do not give for good or acceptable that one of every three infants, to our country, is at risk of poverty. Nor do we conform to a social reversal that did not understand this reality. This is why the first three points of this motion: to double the direct investment in childhood and family policies to the assumptions of the year you see; comprehensive strategy with presupposition and specific indicators on child poverty, and to recover the bet and the proposal of the child benefit to the universal character. Because we need to change how we tackle this issue, and we need to take into account that people who work with this reality every day. It has been a long time since they told us, the entities that work in this sector: such as the PEUC, the universal performance per child in charge, and the child's ownership, because it is the way to realize that the children are the responsibility of society and that, therefore, we share responsibility, all folds, also of the economic charge that we assume to have children. We have traded this point with a Ciutadans theme, accepting a progressive application that initially only benefit infants with lower income-level families. But let's not give up on the PEU's sense of purpose: it must end up being a universal performance. As you have seen, there are many more points to the young man on how to better apply the guaranteed income of citizenship, also thinking in this sector of the poor child; on food or milk sheds; on sanitary or pharmaceutical services; on decent habitat; on light, water and gas. In short, even though it is obvious that Catalonia has more and more poor children and that the poor affect its life and future, these past years the investment in childhood has experienced a setback, and the investment, moreover, has been made with weak and inefficient policies, and we cannot go on as if we have played. We are not complicit in continuing to do political harm on a subject as sensitive and as strategic as this country is. We don't just say it for this young man, we just say it for our own assumptions. Investing in children and their rights is investing in the society's joint venture; not to do so is to fail, not only the Convention on the Rights of Children, but also the laws of the Parliament of Catalonia, and, moreover, I will say more: it is immoral. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.76.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, to defend the papers presented on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, Mrs. Noemi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.77.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have on the table one of the main themes of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, which, together with the updating of the Social Services Portfolio and dependence, are therefore part of the major hits of recent seasons. And I say 'big hits' because we keep talking about it and, although the opposition repeats, at all times, in all possible forums, the need to invest more budget in children, the government is deaf. And it is no wonder, then, that our child protection system is crumbling and Catalonia is a champion in child poverty. And I admit to you that in my despair, then... I don't know what else the opposition can do to raise awareness of the government even a little bit and to take this issue seriously. And in the face of the government's sit-down strike, we no longer have another one, as my colleague Carmen de Rivera proposed last week in the Commission of Social Afers, than to strike the Japanese one. That the gentlemen of the government don't want to work? For we overwhelm them with motions, in every committee and in every plenary, on these issues that so much attention needs. And, look, we are going to vote in favour of the whole motion, although some points are not exactly our model, but we think it is important, therefore, to be able to agree on social issues. We therefore appreciate the fact that we have been able to compromise our amendments and to highlight the will of Mrs Marta Ribas to reach an agreement. From Citizens we have always argued that, if there is something in which we should be able to agree all groups is in the social field, and for our part we strive, we strive to reach agreements, and we also do so in order to be able to support measures presented by other groups. In Citizens, on social issues we do not contemplate sanitary cordons or excuses. Excuses like those he put yesterday Catalonia in Comú in order not to support our law of management of waiting lists in health, and, before something as sensible as the reduction of territorial inequality and giving an alternative to those people who have been on waiting list for more than three years to access an intervention, you get out of the sleeve things that did not appear, do not appear in the law, to justify their lack of support, and thus getting the Government to get away with it once again, do nothing and continue with your sit-down strike. Yesterday they made a thousand laps to finally not get anywhere and end up playing the game to the Government. A government, I remind you, whose 25_per_cent of its health budget goes to the agreed one; it is more than double that in the community of Madrid, which is the 11_per_cent. Is that the price that Catalans will have to pay for the possible pacts that you have with the Government? Because, of course, those excuses are taken out of the sleeve yesterday, but today, we are dealing with such an important issue, as it is the fight against child poverty, because they do not apply that cordon, in practice they do not apply that cordon sanitaire to those who want to expel the poor from the municipalities where they govern. Because, of course, in that supremacism and classism that characterizes Convergence or the neo-postultra-Convergence, because it is no longer only satisfied with wanting to expel from Catalonia the citizens that bother you, like Mrs. De Gispert, that I have already lost count of the times she has sent Mrs. Inés Arrimadas back to Jerez, but that, not content with that, now invite the poor to abandon, right? , to move out of their municipalities, as did the Councillor of Social Affairs of Convergence in Sant Cugat del Vallès. Does Catalonia share in Comú the model that defends ultra-Convergence in Sant Cugat del Vallès? Do you really believe that this government is going to fight child poverty? Do you think they don't even think about it? I don't think so. And you yourself acknowledged yesterday that the agreement for the plan to combat child poverty reached by the UPC with the Government in the last legislature had not been reflected in the budgets. Then why do they follow the scroll to the government and legitimize it? As we have said, we will vote in favour of the proposal, because fighting child poverty is the best way to ensure equal opportunities in children, because we have repeated on many occasions that talent grows everywhere, does not understand social classes, and we need to ensure equal opportunities for that talent to flourish and not to be lost. This Government has shown that it has other priorities. Please don't be accomplices and whitewash them. Mr. Torra has already said that 90 percent of his energies were in the process and that the rest were minor issues. And in the wake of this government we have all lost: the citizens have lost many rights, many social advances have been lost. And in the meantime, the only thing the government has lost is the ability to turn red. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.78.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now has the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rut Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.79.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor, staff of the house, late afternoon. The poor is a social bitch, yes; that's why I have to fight her. And if this poor woman, in addition to that, has a right of hand, we have the obligation to work together and obviate the parties. The data is the tool that brings us to reality, and they must also become our accomplices. And these are very significant to understand that we need to go one at a time to end the poor child. It's just a few dice I'm trying to sneak up on. That is why we are clear that the eradication of the poor child must be our priority, and it is not true, honourable Member, that we are turning the bait on this matter so worrying for us, and you also know that the assumption has been doubled in this matter. A few weeks ago, all the parliamentary groups conjured up because this was the childhood legislature, and so it must remain. Therefore, we must not only work to abolish the poor child, which affects many of the children of our country, but we must also fight violence against the children and work for the care of the child in migration processes. Of course, we are fully aware that the poor child is able to fight with reverse for such an end to these heritages of the poor that the most vulnerable infants suffer in their surroundings and in their homes. But to end the poor child we also need to focus our efforts on global analysis of where the focus is. Unfortunately, the poor child will always be associated with family income, and this is also a derivative of poverty and gender discrimination, and the most vulnerable families, framed in this situation, are single parents. So we also want to fight because the poor don't look like a woman. The scoundrel that develops within a precarious framework, which in its first stages of life is in a situation of poverty and social inequality, has many chances of remaining part of these parameters in other stages of its life. We, now and long, do not want young precarious, impoverished and living in a society of inequalities. Infants and young people are – we are – the future. Meanwhile, however, we cannot forget that we are also the present. That is why there must be cross-cutting and long-term policies that benefit your day-to-day life and can develop under a set of conditions. For what we are debating today, I should like to point out that the adviser and the Director General of Children and Adolescents have on more than one occasion put forward the need to rethink the system of protection for children and adolescents. And we can't say that Catalonia closes its eyes to the protection of infants, because at present there are different areas and spaces and Catalan institutions where it is old for infants and their rights. Councillor El Homrani has already formalized the announcement of the creation of the new Secretary of Children, Adolescents and Youth, a step further to protect children and young people who find themselves in precarious situations. That said, it is very important to be able to get there, and even overcome and not put us topalls, at the middle expense of the European entanglement in childhood policies, and increase the resources needed to improve their public investment and social protection. But it must also be their families who are at the centre of social policies, and this is an objective of guaranteed citizenship income, fighting the poor child, because it is the duty of the institutions to guarantee the family unit that can provide benefits to their children. We believe that today a universal child benefit generates difficulties and concerns, and this universal benefit would not be felt if the goal was to eradicate the poor child. We believe in helping them fairly and not globally to end this type of inequality. Our group believes that the services should be universal, but direct help should be proportional to the income level, and take into account the child's family context. On the other hand, a decent habitation and ending the poor energy, or questions such as ensuring enough professionals to attend to mental health, serving as a fooder to all the students and educational experiences outside the school hours, during holiday periods, are essential to ending the poor child. That's why he's already worked to increase the number of professionals to treat mental health, he's working to cover all the food lines throughout ESO's high school, and Constellera Bassa has already promoted the scholarships to the colonies of "You are yours because all children and young people can enjoy from some colonies the months of July and August. Therefore, we are fully aware that much remains to be improved and that the poor child must cease to be present. Also, we have the will and we will age as a priority to provide protection and care for our children. That is why we will vote in favour of most of the motion's proposals and we also welcome the agreement that we reached together. But globally we all have to feel responsible for ending the poor child. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.80.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And now, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it's the turn of Mrs. Montserrat Macià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.81.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, friends and friends who accompany us from the guest gallery, staff of the house... Deputy Ribas, as you recalled, you were beginning your inquiry of July with punctuated questions, of those who stir up consciousness, and that we are obliged to do, for which I am grateful that you have begun to ask us all. You said, "How much," he said, "inequality and how much poor we are willing to bear with society? From the outset, I should like to say that my parliamentary group is pursuing the dream of building a better country, a country that is moving towards a new humanism in which all the rights of people, and especially the rights of the most vulnerable, prevail; a country where its standard follows the value of equality, where we remain equal and where we help each other, especially those who are most helpless, and where we also, and of course, deny the value of freedom. Where from the management of the resources we can design those policies that are more equitable and that allow us to determine at every moment that it is the best for our present and for our future, a new country where childhood is the priority and vis-à-vis equal opportunities, the great act of the present and also the great act of the future, of tomorrow. Because we don't want to continue to endure inequalities like society is why we are in a hurry to build this new country in the form of a republic. It is not an inevitable evil, Mrs Ribas; we can pal·liar, we can pal·liar when we can manage our own resources. While, however, it is up to us to manage these problems of ours with the resources that the Spanish State wants. And in this while I have to tell you that we agree with the diagnosis you have – and from analysis such as Save the Children or Red Cree, among others – it makes a subject as punishing as that of the poor child. As you very well explained, one of four children living in a poor situation; the economic crisis has not increased the risk, etc. Although we have provided ourselves with adequate legal instruments to guarantee the rights of children, the Children's Law, the Children's Covenant, etc., despite having these legal tools, the situation is unfortunately what it is. And, yes, we agree with the diagnosis. Yes, all right, but we lack one of the main instruments to focus more directly on the struggle against the poor: taxation, the fixing of deficits, labour and social security legislation, etc. They're tools we don't have, and that's why we want them, and that's why we fight to keep them. All in all, and because we agree most of all with you, I think we need to value the willingness and effort that has been made to reach agreement, and it is that we are very happy with the points of the motion that we have been able to make, the ones that have been accepted by one band or the other, the papers, so much so that these agreements show that the poor child is for you and for us a country theme, a theme to which we can respond with as much consent as possible. And we must continue to work, seeking this consensus, and not diverge from what you have to see with the different instruments to be able to mitigate the child poverty and its effects. In this sense, and as an example, we would like to be able to work politically under the paradigm of predisposition, and thus avoid that there are gender inequalities in origin, and not only reactive. We'd like to, we'd like to do prevention. In any case, the papers that our parliamentary group, together with the Republican Group, has presented, have to see, as I said, with the instruments that we believe are the most suitable for undermining the poor child. Or simply, therefore, because they are determined by a presuppositional economic situation. In this sense, the thought we proposed at its first point, in which we have not, unfortunately, reached an agreement, will not so much double the direct investment compared to 2018, but increase the investment after the projection of poor children and create an instrument of evaluation of this investment. And not because we don't want to double this assumption; we'd love to do it, but that's what we have, and that's why we're abstaining. And for what it does at point 3, and what it may have cost the most, as it asked us for a universal service, we agree with what has happened to the other parliamentary groups, but it is clearly a matter of presumption, it is a subject of presupposition, and that is why we cannot compromise and therefore we will also abstain. Childhood is clear that it is a subject of great relevance and we celebrate the agreement that they have reached. And let us hope that in the near future, when we can freely manage our own resources, this will materializes our willingness to place us among the states of the European Union that invest as it does in their infants, who are our future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.82.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is the turn, to fix its position, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, through the Lady Beatriz Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.83.0	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We are here today to talk about child poverty, an issue that should be a top priority, because the number of children living below the poverty line in Catalonia is something that should embarrass us: one_of_each_three, 28.5_per_cent, according to the latest data from Idescat. In the European Union, only countries such as Romania and Bulgaria have higher figures. My group will support this motion and all those ambitious initiatives that are aimed at advancing the goal of combating child poverty, because we believe that this issue is a priority and should be the case for all parliamentary groups. I would like to remember what it means to be a poor child in Catalonia today, what we are talking about when we talk about child poverty. When we talk about children living below the poverty line, we talk about children who suffer evictions, who live in a room, overcrowded or in houses that do not meet the minimum conditions because they are damaged, have humidity and in which there is no room to play or do their homework. They are children who do not have access to adequate food, because their family cannot afford to buy meat, fish, fruit or fresh vegetables regularly, but also because the precariousness of the home often prevents an adult from being at home to prepare a proper meal. They are boys and girls who do not have adequate clothes for the time of year and who pass cold in winter, because heating a house is something that many families in Catalonia cannot afford. They are boys and girls who never enjoy a family holiday, because the economy of their homes is fully focused on subsistence. A 39,6_per_cent of Catalonia's households have no capacity to cope with unforeseen expenses. A 12_per_cent has been in the situation, in the last twelve months, of not being able to pay rent, mortgage or receipts of water, light or gas. A 49_per_cent has difficulty reaching the end of the month. Behind these figures there are children who do not have their needs covered and who cannot develop on equal terms, who live under stress, because the environment of a home where there is a threat of eviction or the possibility of not being able to cope with daily expenses does not allow them to grow normally. It is boys and girls who do not have access to leisure activities and who are mortgaged on their future because growing up in poverty condemns people who suffer from it to reproduce this vicious circle that is inherited from parents to children. Poverty is inherited from parents to children in Catalonia, because the equality of opportunity proclaimed in its title by Law 14/2010, which passed this Parliament eight years ago, has no transfer to reality. And it does not because, among other things, we have never dedicated the necessary budget to deploy this law. Eight years after Catalonia had adopted a children's law, the situation has not only not improved, it is worse. It is worse, because the arrival of the economic crisis has led to a serious fall in the income of the poorest families, especially those households with children in charge, which are still unrecovered. Catalonia not only has much more child poverty than the European average. The more serious the situation is, the more severe the indicators measure it. We have 14.6_percent of boys and girls suffering from the most acute forms of poverty. This situation is explained by the fact that little has been done to combat child poverty. All reports reveal that transfers to families are scarce and ineffective. A study commissioned in 2010 by the Syndic de Greuges estimated that 2005 would have required EUR 531 million to reduce child poverty in Catalonia by half, bringing it to the level of Scandinavian countries. This figure was equivalent to half of the budget that the Social Welfare and Family Council had at the time. We are not talking about unorthodox or insurmountable figures for Catalonia's economy. The Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez has assumed that this is a priority issue, and among other measures it has created the figure of the High Commissioner for Combating Child Poverty, making this problem a central state issue for the first time. Combating child poverty is an ethical, political and economic obligation, and cannot continue to be the great outstanding subject of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.84.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. It's Mr. Carles Riera's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.85.0	Thank you, President. Just to say that we will give support to the young lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.86.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.87.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our group will also support this young man. But we also want to warn and warn: as much as we support this movement, in which thirteen of the thirteen points that I count what they ask for and demand is to give more resources to the Administration in order to try to pal·liare 28, 29_per_cent practically of the child poverty that we have in Catalonia, we must express a certain scepticism. First of all, because we are not clear that the government's priorities are precisely addressing these. We are not clear that the priorities of most of this Parliament are precisely addressing the problems of Catalans. In any case, we know that the priorities are generally other, are more partisan, are more political and do not have precisely to address the problems of the majority of Catalans; first question. And the second question – I don't think it has been talked about in all this debate and I think it's important –: when we talk about poor children, when we talk about poor children, not only does the solution go to providing more public resources – which obviously must be done and, obviously, we will support it – but also to talk about what we do because society generates enough resources, generates enough wealth as people who are part of this society come out of this poor situation. I don't say anything rare. Last week, members of the Red Cree appeared to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and explained to us that precisely 30_percent of the people who had requested assistance from the Red Cree no longer required this assistance because they found it – oh, magic word! - work. The creation of wealth, if it means creation of work, is the best antidote to fight against the poor. And in all this debate today, the word "work" and "rich" was precisely ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.88.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now, to pronounce on the papers, it has a twist of the word, again, the deputy Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.89.0	Yes, thank you, President. Obviously, this is a subject of presupposition; not only, but especially a subject of presupposition, Member of Parliament Macià. In fact, in order to reach the European average in childhood we have a few assumptions ahead, because we are less than half the European average in childhood. So, I think after that... no? , almost all the groups today we have evidenced in this debate of the data of what is the reality of poor childhood in our country, if after having demonstrated it so clearly in this debate, there is not a clear bet on the own assumptions of 2019 for, as a minimum, doubling the expenditure in childhood, no one can say that they are social assumptions. We're trying to focus on not only this young man's approval, but we're trying to focus on what happens after that. If that is to follow the roll to the government..., so, look, I think we're interested in all folds ending these hits, like doubling the immersion in childhood that we've approved on many occasions and that we're going to do again, because it's no longer a hit that we're throwing at each other like a game and we're making it happen that we're changing the reality that we're seeing – it's worth redundancy – citizenship to our country. Folding the childhood presupposition, which today will be approved in this young man, will be realized if there are real social presuppositions. We've tried to influence it and we've tried to influence the assumptions of the state. They also ask Ciutadans that, if they want this to stop being a constant hit, it also affects the State because we have resources in Catalonia to be able to do it on the premises of the Generality. And one last thought: there is no freedom to build, Mrs. Macia, on a society of inequalities, or we end up with inequalities or we don't talk about building freedoms. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.90.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. In any case, before going to the vote, I must say that, according to Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, the deputy Anna Geli, with the motivation of her hospitalization, has delegated her vote for this late in the afternoon to Deputy Albert Batet, spokesman of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Can the whole House vote together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.91.0	We would ask for a separate vote on point 1 and point 3, and the rest of points, for us, could be voted in block.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.92.0	And 1 and 3 together or...? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. We shall therefore vote in two stages; the first, we shall vote on points 1 and 3 of the motion. The vote begins. Points 1 and 3 of the motion were approved by 68 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 128 votes in favour, against, abstentions, and a Member who had not voted. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the anniversary of the end of the democracy of the months of September and October 2017]] [[302-000014/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the anniversary of the coup to the democracy of the months of September and October 2017, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.93.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, « wild beasts [[relays]] Good afternoon. We came... look, a year ago, the "crazy beasts" didn't mean anything – it didn't mean anything – we didn't know Mr. Torra, they hadn't done their blow to democracy yet and they hadn't radicalized so much that we had a president of the Generalitat who had articles called "crazy beasts" to most Catalans. We didn't know, we didn't know that we were some crazy beasts. The truth is that Mr. Torra wasn't among our big hits, we weren't Mr. Torra's readers. You did, I suppose, know that, and despite that you voted for it, just as you also voted for the lady who considers you to be instruments of linguistic colonization, Mrs Borràs. Or Mr Buch, who until recently wouldn't have let us manifest if it hadn't been because we have those Spanish laws that allow us to manifest ourselves to those of Jusapol in the Catalan streets. By the day the republic would surely not have these legal anomalies. All that is born... – Mrs Caula, goodbye, thank you – all that is born of what happened here on September 6 and 7. And you have to repeat things like in a litany. There are novels of science fiction in which the characters learn from memory a book to survive... – is Fahrenheit 451 –, to survive in memory those texts that, in a future society, dystopic, can no longer be found because it is not allowed to read. Well, here too, in Catalonia, we want to continually repeat the litany of what happened on September 6 and 7, 2017, because it is the example of when a majority abuses its power and sprays minority rights; it is a great example. On that day, you took some laws out of the drawer, preventing you from making amendments; you prevented us from going to the Guarantee Board; you missed the decisions of the Constitutional Court; you approved with seventy-two votes repealing the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy, when it takes ninety votes to touch a coma of the Statute – and we repeat it as a litany. And out of that parliamentary black magic, because that wasn't parliamentary sessions, a child came out, and that child was called "referendum." And he was an engineer with one of those two laws..., they were that of the referendum and the founding of the republic; they were not laws, they were children of parliamentary black magic. And, therefore, you could not do what you did and call the 'legal', and from that derive the consequences of the declaration of independence – of the declaration of independence – which was supported by the other engineer of the 'law, in quotes, which was the foundational of the republic, who appointed Mr Puigdemont « head of state and who could finger the judges of the Supreme Court, and that you were going to ask the officials who were in Catalonia if you wanted to be officials of the Catalan Republic or to leave. That's what you guys did that day. And you have to repeat it like a litany. And then, as we repeat every two by three, now what we want is for us to vote in this Parliament, and for democratic forces to remind us that one parliament can never again, in democracy, be the tool to abuse the democratic rights of others. We ask you to vote today and to recognize, by voting, what you recognize many times in the corridors or in the chatter: that you were wrong, that it was fatal what you did, that you ruined Catalonia, that the companies fled, that divided society. Well, that is what we want to put to the vote today, we here. An opportunity for you to think back, for you to make self-criticism. For us, what happened those days, the 6th and 7th, and that declaration of independence that has then motivated an opening of the oral trial that is being done today for that; not by voting, as you say, that a trial has been opened for you to vote. No, this is why you have been opened up, in coordination with the Government of Catalonia, which spent our money, and in coordination with the leaders to whom no one had voted, who were willing to mobilize the masses. And with those three legs, you did something that we ask you to rectify today, that you behave like a parliament of a democratic country in Europe, that is what we are – which is what we are – and that this never happens again in Catalonia, Spain or in democratic Europe. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.94.0	Next, to defend the papers presented, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress has the words. Mr. Pedret has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.95.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, advise, deputies and deputies, the proposal of Ciutadans, after the inquiry, the motion that presents us, therefore, makes a reminder of some questions that I think it is worth not forgetting. Indeed, on the 6th and 7th of September, and even though we have repeated it often since this Faristol, it has produced a certain unusual situation, which is: from an autonomous parliament, it is intended... – through a vote that did not even complete the procedures established regularly to draft a law – it is intended to repeal the Constitution and the Statute. Therefore, to leave the conjunction of Catalonia's citizenship without taking hold of its phonenal rights and to the arbiter of which a majority of Parliament had written in an articulated text that hardly deserved the qualification of law, which, therefore, was absolutely exposed, the conjunction of Catalonia's citizenship to a situation of abuse of authority. I have also said on some occasions from this Faristol, from this rostrum – I will not enter into the semantic discussion that we had in the morning – that what was done on the 6th and 7th of September hardly has anything to do with the exercise of the democratic principle. You and your predecessors in these scons believed'sympathies of the unique and authentic representation of the will of the people of Catalonia', but they believed that this was unique, and decided, speaking with the rhetoric with which it is usually spoken, to skip the wall, to pull forward, to be in a hurry, whatever they want, and to leave a good part of their fellow citizens and fellow citizens behind. And, of course, they did it so badly and so badly, I think that everyone who watched those parliamentary days had a deep feeling, let's say, of alien shame, as at least. And surely everyone made a lot of mistakes in the months preceding those two parliamentary sessions, but the parliamentary sessions of the 6th and 7th were an authentic shame from the democratic point of view, in which a Parliament that did not have any legitimacy to do so, had no competence to do so, did not follow any procedure to do so and did not gather most to do so, tried to repeal the Constitution and the Statute and replace them with a text that they said was a bit of a protoconstitution, rather a pseudoconstitution, for the lovers of the etymology he intended, huh? That he intended, then, to rule life until you arrived at that moment when there was a Catalan constitution of a Catalan republic, etcetera, right? In the background, a very little republican concept of parliamentarianism, which we saw on the 6th and 7th of September. But, well, our group wanted to present a couple of points to the text that Ciutadans presented, one of which has to do with the need to also comply with the law reform procedures, because it seems to us that neither the Constitution, nor the Statute, nor the laws can be, let us say, a straitjacket or a knife that prevents us from adapting to the change that the society wants to introduce, but what is absolutely necessary is that, in order to reform itself, the reform procedures that are envisaged, the majority necessary and the guarantees of the procedure are followed. And that's also to protect who at a certain time is in most of the hypothetical situation in which he might find himself... if he's in the minority. That's it, let's say, with everyone's assurance. Imagine a hypothetical alternative majority that at the moment the majority does not satisfy you, do not share your ideals, that you decide, with a simple majority, at last, with a vote more than the negative votes, to radically change the brand of coexistence. This would not be acceptable from the point of view of democracy, and it does not have to be. The second of the items that we have planted has to see with the council of the republic, the assembly of elects, etc. The president made a bet on these two bodies in his investiture debate. We, the past June, asked the Government what these two bodies were, if they were to encourage them, if they were to create them from the Generality, as they thought they would finance, what functions they had, what powers they might have in the absence of this Parliament or the same Government of the Generality, and they answered us in a very simple way that they did not have any knowledge of any body that they had to say to the Council of the Republic or the Assembly of Elects. And go here, we've got them. And they say to us, moreover, that the Council of the Republic is a private initiative, that it does not cease to be a little curious, as on private initiative, because all just a moment ago we have rejected an invitation to the act of presentation to the Palau de la Generalitat, with all the pomp, of which it should be, let us say, an institution or at least an organ that is found within the framework of the institutions. Rumíïn'hobé to try to replace the institutions of Catalonia, because we will always find ourselves in the front, defending the institutions of Catalonia's self-government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.96.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is now the return of Deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.97.0	Well, Mr. Carrizosa's interventions are always very happening, I'd say everything, sometimes, if someone doesn't get into the content very narrow, I'd say even fun. But what's going on is that I think they're more of the comedy club or Deluxe Save Me than they are of a Catalonian parliament, I'm also telling you the whole... [[Greetings.]] Don't clap so much, and then we'll have it for you too. [[Widow's remorse.]] Anyway, I'm the one who... I want to think about it too. What are we converting Parliament into? I am saying this because I believe that in Parliament we are perverting the words "dialeg," "agreement," "social cohesion; everyone fills his mouth with these words, but at each and every one of us, or so, we create the meaning of the words "dialeg," "agreement and social cohesion." Miri, you have thirty-six scons, you are the first force of the Parliament of Catalonia, as you love to repeat fifty_ thousand times. We are the first force in Parliament, in this case Spanish, and we are the first force in Barcelona Assembly. I'll ask them to put solutions to the table. Let us solve and respond to a problem that is obvious, that it is a political problem, that it is not a judicial problem, and that affects the social cohesion of Catalonia. « Hit democracy. "Really? « Hit? « Hit, huh? « Hit. Yeah, look, there's not two of us in this country. There was a summer in '36, and thousands of people in my party lost their lives defending freedom. And there was-there was a bit of a state at the beginning of the eighties, with Mr. Tejero. Therefore, enough to pervert – enough to pervert – the use of the words. That is to say, or that is, here there was-there was September 6 – I recognize them, if we were against it too – on September 6 and 7, there was-there was a violation of the rights of the Members of this Parliament, and the majority of Parliament was wrong. But they don't make it work. « State coup? Mirin, the coup d'état that he did..., that he snuck my besavi, that he was socialist mayor of Alia, that he was snuffed by the bexists that you, many times, did not want to condemn. That's a little bit of a state. (Applause.) Miri, here– if ex-fiscal Mena has said so, ex-fiscal José María Mena has said – the only lift there was to rise up to sing The reapers; there was no armed lift there and there was no lift there. I read textually: "There will be those who, out of electoral interest, prefer the situation to be increasingly polarized and conquered, but that will not be good for Catalonia or Spain. In exceptional situations it is necessary to seek exceptional solutions, far from insults, provocations, and even less celebrations or jokes on social networks for the entry into prison of politicians. Carolina Punset, ex Militant from Ciutadans because you expelled him or left his party. [[Greetings.]] Look, defending Catalonia is not blocking the 500_million euros of the deficit target that you are blocking with the PP, which are the PP's cross. Because you talk all day about sanitation, about waiting lists, but because of electoral interest you block that Catalonia has some better deficit targets for Catalonia. And I want to tell you, listen. That's right, we've made two proposals and we've been told no. We want to talk about everything, of course we want to talk about the violation of civil and political rights that occurred in October; we want to talk about September 6 and 7, but we also want to talk about the police charges that were there? Is that what you can talk about or can't talk about? Can we talk about the DUI, if I'm willing to talk about the bogery that was the unilateral declaration of independence, but can we talk about what the violation of rights was supposed to be, in this case of 155, or that policies of this country are in prison like the advisors or advisors of a government, like the government of the Generality, or that can't be talked about? You in this Parliament have become specialists, and on the other side of the bench too, the people of Junts for Catalonia, to see the ball in this case on the other side and not the big one on the other side. And that's what we have to try to end if we want to find a solution, if we want to find an agreement and we want to talk about social cohesion. Miri, we're also addressing the majority in this independence case. The election gave them a majority, that's right. Most escons, but they don't have the social majority to do what they want. On September 6 and 7, you were wrongly wrong, you violated the rights of the deputies, in this case, that we did not have the majority, yes. Transition Law is a genuine democratic delusion and they know it and they say it in private. And they say it in private, say it in public if they want to solve the situation. We are the first ones to defend that in this case the counselors and counselors must be out of prison. I told them personally in this case to Mr Cuixart, Mr Romeva, Mr Forn and Mr Junqueras, we will do everything in our hands to be free, but they must recognize that they were wrong. And, listen'm, on October 27th, the unilateral declaration of independence was profoundly anti-democratic and a democratic error. And if we're not able to admit this, there's no solution and possible dialog. I, the only one who asks them, on one side and on the other side of the bench, ask them, please: we have meaning and content, we don't believe what you mean dialog, agreement and social cohesion, we just let each whole thing talk dialog, cohesion and agreement because it's not what we're doing. Basically, the only thing we're doing is using the election calculator at every ple, playing with Catalonia's social cohesion to win a few votes. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.98.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.99.0	Thank you very much, President. Three very quick things, due to the short time I have. Firstly, thank the Group of the European People's Party for having accepted our amendment and then moved two ideas. The first is that of all the negative, perverse and deeply anti-democratic aspects that we had to suffer in those ignominious days of September 6 and 7, and that have been explained previously by virtually all the groups, we were only able to draw two positive conclusions. The first is the deeply undemocratic character of the process. Deeply anti-democratic because everything that is unilateral comes at a time when it has to manifest itself in that way. And I remember those days with some elements that are symbolic, beyond the Law of Transition, which has been spoken of, we were denied, even by appealing to specific articles of the Regulation, we were denied the right to speak. We were faced with a sort of authoritarian caudillism that is the true nature of the separatist process that we have experienced. The other positive element was what I like to call the spirit of the 6th and 7th of September. Those days the constitutionalists, in a more strict sense, were able to act together. We were able to defend democracy, but also the Common Group, with vibrant speeches from Mr Coscubaila, were able to get the applause of the Democrats and not what happened here today, the applause of those who are not so much. And I'd like you to think of one thing before you set up equidistance. If instead of being a separatist president who calls other opponents beasts in human form or manifests the Salvini style, clearly xenophobic politics, if instead of being Junts per Catalunya outside the People's Party, what would you do? On the other hand, you make it look like nothing's wrong. They're trying to maintain an equidistance, and that's a deep immorality. For some reason I do not know you have decided to overcome that spirit of September 6 and 7 to go to the dark side of history. You'll know exactly where you're going, but you're seriously wrong. And I tell you with all the cordiality of the world. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.100.0	Next, to fix its position has the word, in the first place, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the lady Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.101.0	Well, we understand that there are people who have felt offended by everything that has happened, but this is what happens, as David said, words and concepts are used to distort reality. In this motion for a resolution by Ciutadans, the word "democracy in two pages of motius exposure emerges six times. At all four agreements, in three, there is also the word 'democracy'. Miri, according to the Catalan Language Dictionary of the Catalan Institute of Studies, democracy is "a system of governance based on the principle of equal participation of all members of the community in the making of decisions of collective interest. Can you explain to us which more clear exercise of democratic radicality is a reference? Where can you vote and express yourself freely? Mr. Carrizosa, the empire of law can never – never – be over democracy. In its proposal it says that 'Parliament has been degraded in its dignity, from which it has not recovered. Democracy was in danger those days. And the Parliament, yes, the Parliament was degraded. Just as the rest of the autonomic cams are degraded by a state that prevents citizens from expressing themselves in freedom. Democracy, if this democracy exists in the Spanish State, is put in danger when the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court defends the banking entities before the mortgage that affects both independenceists and non-independenceists. And, what's Ciuta in front of this? So propose a mediation like they proposed with the clausules just to trick people and make people give up their rights. A mediation without guarantees and before which they were radically positioned against consumer judgments and associations. Democracy is also put in danger when the Valencian Government suspects its laws for the defense of the social function of housing; for the defense of the universalization of sanitation; when the Constitutional Court prohibits the expropriation of empty floors to the bank provided for in the Andalusian Anti-Discharge Act, or when repression is applied against the veins of Múrcia that defend the subterration of the AVE, against Jorge, who must go to prison to stop a denunciation, or when repression is applied to express ideas freely, as in Willy Toledo. You say to your proposal that ‘the loud behaviors have occurred which should cause the protagonists to smile with shame (sounds like the acoustic signal indicating that the intervention time has expired)' – I came to the end, President. I suppose it refers to you who is the protagonist of the corrupt monarchy, who is the protagonist of a centralist oligarchy that denies rights. We do not rectify or feel shame or shame, as your proposal says. And, therefore, what we feel is pride...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.102.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.103.0	...proud to have defended – I ended up, president –...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.104.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.105.0	...to have defended that it is the people who decide in which model of society wants to live, and pride of a worthy people. Democracy, Mr Carrizosa, is not in these four pairs. And this country will be the one that decides its people. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.106.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Antoni Castellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.107.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion presented to us today by Mr Carrizosa forms part of his monotheme – or his usual course – and I grow from top to bottom is an absolute disproposal, it is an absolute exercise of post-truth. As much as you repeated and repeated a lie as if it were a letany, in a democratic parliament repeating a lie does not turn it into truth. The Republican Group today will vote 'not on the whole text. It's a no from up to down, in a false, provocative and malicious report. Deputies and deputies, we deny the major of this young man. You say that on 6 and 7 September the Parliament skipped the legal order in the proceedings and in the content. We say this isn't true – it's not true. First, in the procedure. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure by urgency, single reading, and as was done, is finally endorsed by its Constitutional Court. That's not what this is about. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Greetings.]] Yes, yes... [[Widow's remorse.]] And with reference to the content, the law of reference, I solemnly see a more...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.108.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.109.0	...that is fully equipped for the international legal order. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah. The pacts on the civil and political rights of the United Nations General Assembly, the resolutions on the promotion of the right to democracy of the United Nations Human Rights Commission, the rulings of the International Court of Justice on the right to self-determination of peoples, among many others; international treaties signed for the Kingdom of Spain, which in its Constitution – Article 96 – define them as part of its internal legal order. Therefore, Mr Carrizosa, I solemnly say it: it is the courts and the Spanish Government that has blown up their own judicial order – their own judicial order. [[Greetings.]] That is true, with the aim of the principle of the sacred unity of the homeland, which goes beyond civil, human and democratic rights. The Spanish State, since the past October, is converted into a legal authority, giving the skeleton to the entire international order. You're talking about "a coup d'état or a coup d'état" in democracy. Look, Mr. Carrizosa, democracy is about ending a legitimate government and dissolving a parliament chosen for the citizens of Catalonia... [[applause]] The time of 155. Cop to democracy is saying they'll set us up with an Ulster. Cop to democracy is they'll tell us to snort our toilet. Or the police's false reports; the state locksmiths are once in a while to democracy. Cop to democracy is to limit the right to assembly, the right to express, prohibit colors and intervene communication media. Cop to democracy are the pressures of the Head of State and the Government of the People's Party to displace their employers, with the aim of destroying the Catalan economy. Cop to democracy is to suspend more than forty social laws in Catalonia, with all the direct harm to the most disadvantaged citizens, indiscriminately, whether independent or not; here the harm is for all Catalans. Cop to democracy is, on October 1st, indiscriminately beating the citizens of Catalonia, men and women that the only one they wanted to vote for. Cop to democracy, finally, Mr Carrizosa, is to undertake innocent, good people who followed the democratic mandate of the ballot boxes; to undertake them without judgment, by inventing evidence, violating all civil and human principles. Having political prisoners and exiles, that does represent a blow to democracy, and the shame of all Europe. Therefore, Mr President, today we will vote 'no, and we will vote that this motion is not to reaffirm that the law of reference is legal, that the reference of '1 October is valid, that the result of the same is clear and binding on us, and that we democraticly and peacefully will not end ourselves until the Republic of Catalonia, an independent republic where the values of freedom, fraternity and social justice are shared throughout and each of the citizens of that country. You, Mr. Carrizosa, too. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.110.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it's the turn, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Mr. Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.111.0	President of Parliament, Councillors, Members and Members of Parliament, the Ciutadans Group is late in defending a motion that speaks to democracy at a time. They spent the day repeating this idea. You, you must admit, are very disciplined, you are like a Swiss watch: repeat, repeat and repeat. You are a great daughter-in-law, a great Goebbelian daughter-in-law. Mirin, once democracy is disbanding parliaments to brave, ceasing the Government of Catalonia chosen at the polls, doing so by means of a decree applied unlawfully and unlawfully. One time democracy is about 948,000 votes, having thirty-four deputies and that the powers of the State do not accept, and that these powers want to change the majorities of this Parliament. Having political prisoners and exiles is also a time in the pillar of democracy, a time that takes place and does not guarantee a fair trial. A visit to the democracy that the saint's stomach has to present before the world convinced of civics as if they were violent activists. The Jordis are people of clubs – they are people of clubs. A reference also to Mr. Married, who yesterday was inspired, I saw, as a pyroman. In case Casado doesn't know what it's like for a while, it can now be made clear: the police and military invasion that Catalonia suffered in September, October and November 2017 is a time for democracy, an operation certainly well designed to do for and suppress; it's a time for democracy. Do they still want to talk about democracy? Do you like them? So well, point: October 1, 2017, Catalunya votes in reference. Holy shit, police barbarism. The State denies ballot boxes, the State denies the will of 2,300,000 voters. The State would like to store under the ground the 2_million votes of the independence of Catalonia. Silence of a majority vote is also a time for democracy. But there's more. Mrs. Arrimadas: as if the historians of this country need new references, as if in Vilar, Vicens, Termes, Fontana, Benet or Figueres did not have enough thick, these days Mrs. Arrimadas has brought a new version about President Company; now it turns out that he was not murdered. Good. Mrs. Arrimadas, has the points: October 15, 1940, Lluís Companies, president of Catalonia, lost for the State at dawn. This was also a time for democracy. A time in democracy was General Franco, year 36, rising up against the people; this is a time of state. I Tejero. Ah, the Tejero! Tjero is an attempt of a tambourine state, the 23rd of February of 81. Terjero was a voodoo of mostatxos, tricorns, and perhaps of a crown and all, before whom the State showed its worst face. Strong with the fevers and low with the forts. With a judgment that you do not miss the deep goals of Milans of Bosch and Armada. And who are the strong? Those who have weapons, barracks, those in the head still have – still have – eagles and eagles. And who are the fevers? In the Spanish State, the fevers are the ones who have ballot boxes and end up in prison; these are the fevers. You for democracy are the llop, the llop to watch the sheep. One hundred and fifty-five drops and a watchful guinea pig: it is well the world backwards. The younger ones, no, but the rest, sure: have they ever listened to the legends they said that the militia arrested donkeys and swimming pools? I'm sure it is. It's incredible things that Pere Calders wouldn't have dared to write in his tales. So you arrest ballot boxes to defend democracy. You, with all the love of the world, are ultimately the ones who arrest donkeys and arrest swimming pools. You, in Portugal, on April 74, would have taken to prison those who lifted the carnations. And in Berlin, on November 89, you would have put the guards in jail that didn't shake the crowd that knocked down the wall. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm done. Respect the words. Every word has a sense, its sense. The word'respects' is'respects'. And from respect, democracy. Respect the ballot box, bury the post-truth and the demagic debates that only seek headlines. That is why, Mr President, we will vote against it, because we do not believe in the Monarchic State, which is obsolete, old and repressed that you defend, a state to which we give 'yes to democracy, 'no to repression...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.112.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.113.0	... and, in Ciutadans' terminology, "not to the king, not to the greatest of the Xiringuitos, the Xiringuitos of the monarchy. And that I made myself clear...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.114.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.115.0	...faithful to the idea of building, yes to pau, yes to civics and yes to democracy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.116.0	To pronounce on the papers has the word, again, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.117.0	How long...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.118.0	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.119.0	Two minutes? The previous speaker has extended more than forty seconds, Mr President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.120.0	If it doesn't taste hard, time controls me and the Ple lead me, Mr. Carrizosa. [[Greetings.]] If you want to talk...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.121.0	Thank you, Mr. President; but, if you can put me, please, the clock to zero, now that I haven't started yet... [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.122.0	Yes, I insist, time and ple lead me. If you want to waste your time on other things, you yourself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.123.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I will answer Mr Castellà very briefly. Look, basically, stop lying. You are alone with your story; no one buys it, neither here, in the rest of Spain, nor abroad, of course, there is no international body supporting that oppressive state against smiling democrats. You gave a blow to democracy. Stop lying to everyone and humiliate our voters. Today you have one more opportunity, one more, do not miss it, to amend that tortuous path that you have undertaken. With regard to the amendments, we accept and appreciate the amendment made by the People's Party. It is opportune, because here Parliament is asked to stick basically to the regulations that bind it, and this is something that, if Mr Torrent is listening to me, he is not too much to take note of at the Bureau – he is not too much – and it is a bit of a shame that the parliamentary groups that do not have a majority in Parliament are forced to vote for a respect for the rules by the bodies that must respect the rules in Parliament. We also accept the Socialist Party's amendment, as regards respect for the institutions, which are emptied of content with the chiringuites that you are creating as a machine to create chiringuites. And finally, as far as the comrades of Podemos..., look, you are always very ready to save the face of the right-wing ultranationalists and to prevent debate in Parliament about waiting lists. About that, you have it very clear. Now, when it comes to condemning facts that happened in Parliament that embarrass us all, then you are never in the picture next to the Democrats, you are next to separatism. You always do the same; as long as you agree with each other. Among your many fights, in the end what always shines is the agreement to vote alongside separatism, as you are going to do today to avoid condemning the shame that happened a year ago, but yesterday you did align with them to prevent the health professionals coming here to talk about how we eased the excessive waiting lists we have in Catalonia. Nothing more. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.124.0	We're calling it a vote. Meanwhile, I ask you if there is any separate motion for a vote. [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa. Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.125.0	To request that the a-point of our motion be read before the vote is taken.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.126.0	The point?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.127.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.128.0	All right. What do you do for separate votes? Is there no request? [[Pause.]] Before going to the vote, following the request of Mr. Carrizosa, I will pass the word to Secretary Pérez to read the point to this young man. Forward, secretaries.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.129.0	Thank you, Mr. President. « For all this, the Parliament of Catalonia : (a) He solemnly expresses his deepest rejection of the attempt to strike democracy that took place in this Parliament on 6 and 7 September 2017 and proclaims that the law and the judgments of the courts concern us all and that no one is above them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.130.0	Let's go ahead and vote on the motion. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] One second... now. [[Pause.]] This young man was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the initiation of the 2018-2019 school year]] [[302-00015/12]] Let's go now to the next point of the order of the day, the twenty-first point, which is the Movement following the question to the Government about the beginning of the 2018-2019 school year, a motion presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.131.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, guests. This young man, as his name indicates, should have seen before the beginning of the school year, but the separatist parties decided to close the Parliament three months ago and could not have been. You can close the Parliament, but the reality is that the problems of the Catalans continue and this motion continues to hold. This place and others have been three months waiting to see if the separatist parties agree. And the truth is, they always agree on one thing, it's to skip the laws. There is one other thing they agree on, not only separatist parties, but also the PSC and Podemos, and that is that the Catalan school is a model of success. There is no indicator to support this claim, but they continue to say that "the Catalan school is a model of success, and that there is no indicator, end up calling for social cohesion, as if for example in Finland, with a completely different model, without social cohesion, but it turns out that this is also false. There are many indicators; for example, Catalonia is one of the autonomous communities where the academic results depend more on the economic situation of families. And there are no more indicators. But what's going on? That I could go there, and then they'll come out here again and say that the Catalan school is a model of success, because you live in your particular Matrix. And let's see if they live in Matrix, which has now given them for saying that the Catalan school is multilingual ( l'oradora shows some documents to the chamber), but at the same time they send the schools this document of obligatory compliance, because this is obligatory compliance, this is a toast to the sun, eh? What is done in these advertising campaigns is not mandatory. This yes, and this tells us that, in the centres, the only language that can be used is Catalan: in out-of-school activities, in the dining room, even outside the centre. In its Matrix, red pill, all in Catalan; blue pill, marquetin campaign. Red Pill, this is what Catalan families and students suffer here in Catalonia. Blue pill, the nationalist march campaign; let me tell you, Mr. Counsellor, often churro of the march campaign, because it turns out that yours now ask for resignation, and of course Catalan families and us do not deceive us. The Catalan school is a school with a single vehicle language, unlike what Citizens ask, which is what most Catalans want, which is a system with three vehicle languages. And while you are still in that Matrix where the Catalan school is a model of success, it turns out that Catalonia is the autonomous community with the most barracks. It is an endemic problem that neither Convergence, nor Republican Left, nor the tripartites have bothered to solve. Nor do we think it will be resolved in this legislature, because Mr Torra is always saying that the only thing that matters to him is to separate us from the rest of Spain, that everything else is minor issues, that he is not here to manage an autonomy. Well, it's just that neither an autonomy nor a cockpit position, because is it that someone imagines Mr. Torra thinking of something that is not the monotheme, that is not the CDRs, that is not going to sign up to Waterloo? It turns out that Mr. Torra has gone much more to Waterloo than to l'Hospitalet del Llobregat or to Rubí. And I want to invite Mr. Torra to visit Rubí, which is my city; a wonderful city, which is where a PDECAT registrar sends to live the poor of Sant Cugat. But in Rubi everyone is welcome, because Rubi is made up of thousands and thousands of working people who have come from the rest of Spain and also from the rest of the world. People like my parents with a dignity that will never have that PDECAT registrar, and that will never have Mr. Torra, who calls us "beasts mad in human form, and who will never have the counselor who calls us "linguistic colonizers." [[Greetings.]] And while you are still in your Matrix, where Catalan school is a model of success, the reality is that children with special educational needs are not well attended, the reality is that children with autism cannot stay to eat in the dining room, the reality is that deaf children do not have interpreters, because they deny their mother tongue, because they cannot bear the concept of mother tongue, if Tuesday the counselor said it in his act. If they can't stand bilingualism, not even Catalan-language bilingualism and sign language, and the supremacist councilwoman is dedicated to signing manifestos against bilingualism. Please respect the rights of deaf children, respect the right to their mother tongue, which is the sign language, and allow them to have interpreters every hour. It is a problem that would be solved with €300,000, which is much less than it is spent in its chiringuitos in France, in the Valencian Community and, of course, in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.132.0	Next, to defend the papers presented, he has the word on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units for Advancing Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.133.0	Well, good afternoon, thank you, President. Members and Members, first of all, say that we are surprised that we are voting again on a proposal that was adopted exactly 15 days ago; but in any case, we will focus on the debate on the motion. Because when we talk about education, above all about public investment in education, we start from a problem, and it is that, despite its economic recovery, there has not been a reversal yet of social detail. We are the autonomous community that the most detail made in its moment and that has not yet reversed them. I would like to remind you that education expenditure is no higher than 2.5_percent of GDP, and that therefore it is not only 6_per cent that is the same as Catalonia's Education Act, but more than that, it is much the same as the European referent countries of our environment, and, in this context, therefore, we accumulate hardships. This very week we approved a resolution to the Committee on Education in which Parliament denounced the lack of planning that has characterized the government in recent years, especially difficult in the secondary stage. And it is clear that there has been an omission of planning, from proper planning to medium and long term. The independent governments of the past few years decided to assume the cost of not making a public policy of building centres, and the proliferation of prefabricated modules, of barracks, is not the result. It was said before: we are the autonomous community with more barracks. Some centers, and even different student promotions directly have not known what it is to study in a center with a building. We have become accustomed to this precariousness of the public service, of the conditions of the faculty, of the students, which often suffer from problems of lack of space. Some centers, therefore, do not have room for the duck, do not have gymnasiums, do not have space for tutoring, do not have laboratories, and have to do, therefore, the balances that have been possible. And, therefore, it seems to me that the motion speaks of a plan to gradually reduce the name of barracks, especially because prefabricated modules have a useful life of five years, and in many cases have been, therefore, far exceeded and suffer an obvious deterioration. For what it does to the students, a reduction in rates is obvious that it would mean a better quality of education, of the educational attention of the group of students, and it is more: probably without this reduction of rates we could hardly make possible the inclusive school model that we all want but that we do not see the reality of the day-to-day school schools, because of lack of resources, because of lack of support staff doccent, not doccent, of teacher training... And we've often said this, we're surprised why the government kept the refusal to reduce these rates when we have a context of demography that could take advantage of precisely to improve this attention, that would allow us to maintain lines, that would allow us to maintain the existing faculty and that would allow us not to close projects. That's why we proposed a point in which we thought that you would agree to the mixed committee a flood of routes at all stages, that we would be pleased to have accepted, but that it has not been done. We only look at secondary school: we have desperate teachers, who don't know how to manage the class, with a lot of difficulties in developing the project before the reality every time more complex, more different from the classrooms, and, therefore, lack of permanent training, lack of tools and lack of support for the teachers, who are the ones who have endured this educational service despite the detail. For what it does to the inclusive school points, here it is obvious that it does not only strengthen and expand the permanent training and initial training of the teacher, precisely to improve in early detection, to be able to start the treatments before they are needed to develop individualized plans for the student who needs it. More support for teaching staff and not teaching at all times of education, lectius and not lectius. Yesterday we also spoke to our question: to the beggars, to the reader. And therefore, it seems logical for us to qualify a game in each presuppositionary exercise that can be opened to ensure precisely that the special educational needs that arise in each course, therefore, can give an adequate answer. So, apart from the intervention, from the speech made by the honourable Member from Ciutadans, the proposal itself, which appears to us to be a good one, and we will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.134.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And now it's the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Bernat Sole's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.135.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies..., look, Mrs. Sierra, the truth is that I have doubts about whether you read the motion before you come, your own motion, because you spoke to us absolutely less than what you say in this motion. In any case, other times, we have before us a motion that speaks to us of a series of contents that have been widely debated, widely voted in committees and, even so, in this House. I suppose that you have to have some explanation, that is to justify its intense, frantic parliamentary activity or, perhaps, I go back to saying, repetitive. I told the committee, and now I'm going back to say it in his parliamentary office, not because I put it more often on the table, not because they shout higher, they'll change our way of thinking. In fact, the position of the group I represent has become very clear in previous committees and plenary sessions, and the government's understanding to which our group gives support and, concretely, to the Department of Education, in this case, demonstrates the will and determination to give response to everything you plant. Despite all this, I would like to thank him for his willingness and for having reached agreement at many of the points of this young man. In a first block, they talk to us about one of the monothemes, the prefabricated modules, otherwise named for your barracks and, why not? , « syringuitos. We won't stop at this semantic discussion, it's not worth it, that every name as it is, because the word, in this case, doesn't make the case. As you well know, the use of prefabricated modules always responds and has always responded, in these years, to give solution to an increase in school demand, especially, to secondary school. An increase resulting from a conjunctural situation, marked by the migratory phenomenon that we have lived in our country with principles of secularism. And I say that, because precisely one of the objectives of good planning is to know how to discriminate between conjunctural and structural situations. Not to do so, not only in education policies, but in all spheres of government, is to generate a false relation and, above all, to satisfy the punctual needs at the expense of mortgageing our future. And precisely, what we don't care about or want to do from the Republican Parliamentary Group and I think from any group of this chamber is to mortgage the future of our country. It is obvious that the easiest thing would be to remove all the modules you ask for and replace them for us equipment. But have you wondered who will fill these equipments when the population progress goes down? Have they wondered what we'll have to stop doing to build all these equipment? Have they wondered if all the assemblies have made the cessation of the earthly correspondents? No, no, They didn't ask. I haven't been asked, because you only generate headlines and do so from the lack of rigor. We have tabled a motion at this point; unfortunately, they have not accepted it and, as a matter of responsibility, we will vote against it. In a _second block, we talk about guaranteeing the established rates for the current regulations. As it could not be otherwise, since the department is working on this line; although we know that the registration is changing at the length of the year for family movements or the arrival of new arrivals. Precisely, for this reason, the same legislation provides for specific increments in those cases that are necessary and that, both from the department and from all the agents who are part of the educational community, consider it opportune. It must be borne in mind that there is no universal rule that serves all social and territorial realities, and we fully agree that the trend and the will must be the reduction of ration. And we will have to make a mature debate, yes, a mature and will be debate, if this reduction has to be general or depending on the needs of each center. Anyway, thank him for having accepted our message. And finally, a third block, where the importance of investing in the means needed to ensure quality education, especially for those students with special educational needs, is manifested. We are talking about ensuring the necessary attention and support so that students with a driver's spectrum can stay at the school meals, if that's what their families decide. In this sense, from the Republican Group, we want to go further and conceive of the beggar as a more educated space, as foreseen in the proposed decree that is working from the department. In any case, we appreciate the acceptance of the message that we presented at point 6. Finally, and since it couldn't be any other way, you're tanking this young man with what we all want, but now you know that it's not possible or consumable. You ask that the government authorize each fiscal year an open and expandable game to be able to carry out the previous agreements. Look, Mrs. Sierra, this time, I'm also addressing everyone who will support this point. As you may well know, the annual law of assumptions provides for expandable credits for exceptionalities. Therefore, I place them to work so that their assumptions can continue to respond to all these demands that we share, and because this is possible, in good part, what it is that those who set the limits to Madrid are consistent with what they are asking for in this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.136.0	Thank you, Congressman. All the same, it's the turn of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Mr Xavier Quinquillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.137.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Before entering the subject, Mrs. Sierra, let 'em know that the Catalan school is a model of success and that the Language Immersion Law is also a model of success. [[Greetings.]] We would have liked a young man who brought a more global view of the reality of the school year. In any case, to say that we will give partial support to the motion, they still recognize the good willingness of the groups to agree, in this case, we will vote in favour at points 1, 3, 4 and 5, we will abstain at 6 and we will vote against at 2 and 7. Let's start with the prefabricated module theme. When we talk about eliminating prefabricated modules from educational centers, it's very easy to fall into demagoguery. Cal, on the way in, apply a little rigor. It is not a matter of simply designing a plan for the global elimination of modules or marking terms that do not respond to reality; first, to do an analysis of the globality, which takes into account all the needs in the matter of infrastructures. This happens, as our proposal proposed and you did not accept, to develop a plan of constructions for the next years that contemplates new buildings and rehabilitation of buildings, and a gradual removal of modules. Conjunctural and structural realities that have to be derived from an analysis of reality without traps or demagogic. Let's remember partial data that you donated, as is the case with..., when you talk about a thousand modules in Catalonia or three hundred in Andalusia, obliving..., said that this occurred in an alumni growth, in the case of Catalonia, of a 53_per_cent in the past twenty years and, in the case of Andalusia, of only a 9_per_cent. Priority has been given to removing structural modules. The total number of centres in prefabricated modules has fallen by 23_percent since 2008. It is necessary to remove modules, but in some cases it is more urgent to intervene in buildings that are very enveloped. We don't want to cheat or act irresponsible. It can be assumed that there are conjunctural realities arising from demand points which now, in particular, pass to secondary level and which, in some cases, pass through the existence of prefabricated modules, such as provisional solutions and time-bound. For what it does to student ratios, we have to walk towards reducing ratios, but there are also positive indicators that have a positive impact: the quality of teaching and the improvement of individualized care. I want to point out that, in the period 2010-2019, we have moved from a mid-term to a mid-term period from twenty-three to twenty-one students per group and, to ESO, from twenty-eight to twenty-seven; and, in the last five courses, the class groups that are around twenty-five students to primary..., in the case of P3 we have moved from one 10 to one 4_per_cent, and to ESO, from one 17 to one 10. All this, despite the significant increase in demand that has occurred during the same period. For what it does to inclusive school, on the second part of its motion, it is focused on some concrete aspects of the application of the inclusive school model and the implementation of the same decree. A model that, I want to highlight, has implied a paradigm shift and wants to transform a problem – the difference – into an opportunity. In this sense, we share the fact that we guarantee all students with special educational needs that they can stay to eat with all the guarantees, with adequate attention and support, and also as a step back... – we are grateful that we have collected our research – in those activities that, moreover, extend all this to all the rest of the students with specific educational needs. In the case of students with hearing disabilities, as we have already spoken in committee, say that students with hearing disabilities are attuned, that there is not a lack of resources, but, in any case, different visions respect the learning model that triage families, between the oral, majority, and bilingual model, which represents only 15_percent of the total and which is for this reason, and follow the recommendations of the professionals, that from the school is looking for a balance between the two systems, in order to guarantee the maximum personal autonomy of the students. Finally, I guess. It is obvious that in order to implement many of the measures proposed by the young man, resources are cut. Planting an open and expandable presuppositional game, they know it's technically inexhaustible. Can you imagine a law of assumptions based on open and expandable parties? I'm glad we don't have the Economy Advisor, 'cause it looks like he's getting his hair cut off. We all know that in order to advance in the deployment of the inclusive decree, to fight against school segregation or to implement a plan of construction, such as political will, which is there, but they also call for more resources. We have a repte, which is said to be the law of assumptions, but it also addresses the endemic problem of infra-financing in Catalonia. I invite them all to do politics from responsibility, with a long and willing gaze of consensus, because in this land, responsibility and consensus, they will find us there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.138.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to position herself, she has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão, Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.139.0	Yes, thank you, President. I agree with Esquerra Republicana's company, with Mr. Sole. I think it's a shame that Mrs. Sierra, instead of talking constructively and about her education in Catalonia, has taken advantage of the occasion and spent time following the monotheme, as you say. But, well, anyway, I want to thank you for the presentation of this motion and announce that we will vote for it. Because I think that when the proposals you make have a positive feeling... I think that, come from where they come, they will always find us at your side. Ara, Mr. Carrizosa..., for chrispar, no – for chrispar, no. Yesterday we got a government commitment to bring a decree in front of us to reduce the waiting lists and start reversing the perverse logic of Boi Ruiz when he was in front of Sanitat, and today we will give support to a movement in Ciutadans, which we believe, in some points, therefore, can improve the education system in Catalonia. And this is our behavior; if they like it, well, or not, too. You know, when people get into politics, they'll always find us. Now, when it comes to times of non-existent democracy, when it is spoken... – yes, yes, Mrs. Sierra, I am now going with you, but before you ask yourself and I answer it – when it comes to times of democracy that are non-existent, do not look for us because they will not find us. And, therefore, it is up to you to stay side by side or agree. And now, concretely, I'd like to say that we see it all well, but I would like to make some nuances. For what it does about the barracks, we are the territory of the State that has the most prefabricated modules, now, that we can distinguish between using them as a point tool, as the motion says and to cover certain needs or before those situations, that we have many, we have found ourselves with many situations in Parliament, with proposals for resolutions that are approved and that are not complete, where there are infants who have spent all their schooling in barracks; therefore, they have chronified and I believe that this situation must be reversed. And a couple more points on this subject. I want to highlight the good work that is done in the schools of Catalonia, whether they are in barracks or not, because there are some schools that are in prefabricated modules and that have some pedagogical projects that are of reference to the whole educational community and I believe that neither can be abused in this way and speak poorly and lower those schools that are in barracks. And, second of all, to put down a point of realism, we would vote for it, but it is that, in four years, the barracks in Catalonia will not disappear; we would be delighted, but it will not happen. Therefore, I believe that if we go and approve things that we know will not happen, the only thing we do is generate more frustration. For what he does to rats, we find that when the department presents the student data for the regular classroom to fit the norm, but, of course, this happens because, in the end, the data that are presented are a medium. We know that there are places where there are fewer students of the establishments, but it must also be said that there are places and, mainly, in secondary school, that they are very much above the desirable and what it should be. We have a hard secondary massiveity for the lack of planning of the department – we have told them many years ago, but they don't care about it – and, therefore, this ends up overloading the faculty of work, hinders good attention to the student and makes school segregation more difficult. And the rest of the points come to talk about student support with specific educational needs both during the lecturing time and for the lunchtime, which, for us– and I think this is already a consensus in Parliament – is an educated time and therefore seems good to us. Some of these measures are already collected in the inclusive school decree. It's a decree that marks a good model for us, but if we don't have money, if we don't have finance, it's gonna stay on paper and we'll still find ourselves with bloody situations for families and with the powerlessness that the teachers see. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to be gathered to the proper assumptions of the Generality. The working rights of the teacher, the inclusive school, the co-responsibility in the financing of the schools Bressol, the co-education and the struggle against school segregation. These are our five priorities that we believe are essential because our education system acts as a real tool of social cohesion, and so we hope that they will be present at the very premises of the Generality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Well, then it's the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.141.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Look, Mr. Sierra, we were going to do a good faith exercise – now I see that it was naive – because we believed the content of the motion, frankly, and the truth is that we were going to vote for it most of the points of its content. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, You have instrumentally used a motion to target the bile against the Catalan school, against the educational community, and to insist on your discourse on conflict and confrontation. And, look, in the last few moments we've decided to change our position. We will not cooperate in this vote, we will not participate; we will not participate in this farce; we will not participate in bleaching with this vote your speech against the Catalan school. It is also worth this intervention to defend our school, the Catalan school, the Catalan public school, its educational community – families, students and teachers – that every day they fight, without the necessary resources, to generate cohesion where you just want to generate division, fracture and conflict. And listen well, Mrs. Sierra, and listen well, ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans: the school is not touched. And if they want to touch it, they'll find us in front of it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.142.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.143.0	Thank you very much, President. First of all, we would like to thank the groups of Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya that in their interventions tomorrow, when it comes to barracks concretely, a debate – I quote textually, I have pointed out – « mature, responsible, constructive, rigorous and rational. Welcome, because when it comes to talking about the issue of independence, you go back to psychological adolescence, and you're all about feelings, and if you don't, as children say, I don't make friends anymore. Therefore, I return to the rational, rigorous, mature and responsible debate not only in the question of the barracks, but in all the questions of Catalan politics. Having said this point, we will gather this motion from the Ciutadans Group, because it contains three elements that in other parliamentary initiatives that we have presented in the previous legislature, in the final part, that is, first, the dignity of public educational equipment in Catalonia; the second question, trying to improve the student/educational unit ratio, and third place, being able to improve the attendance of those students who, for their personal circumstances, require specific social attention. It's three fundamentals for us, and that's why we're collecting the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.144.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, finally, it's the turn to pronounce on the exams. There's the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.145.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Solé, the young lady I wrote with these little hands. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He asked me for an explanation; I give him the explanation, if I may. We've introduced them many times, and we'll introduce them as many times as anyone else, until they end up with the barracks, the autistic children can stay and eat the school children and the deaf children have the attention they deserve. What doesn't read the data is you, because it's not true what he said. The number of barracks has remained stable, between more than seven hundred and one thousand, for forty years, regardless of the demographic situation. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, we've got all the data, those that after that cost a lot to find. And, Mr. Quinquillà, the same, you haven't read the documents, and I'm going to say it with all the love: it's not a fault; I say, "Now they're going to come out here and say it's a success model, and it comes out here and says, "It's a success model. Look, it's such a success model that I've been through the entire previous legislature asking the department – that I think they already know me, the Department of Education, that I'm always asking for things – that I'm teaching myself these documents that show that it's actually a success model! Not one! I'll start another time asking, see if I have more luck in this legislature. Mrs. Albiach, I've been talking all through the education room. The one who did not take advantage of the time to talk about the subject was you, who dedicated himself to talking to Mr. Carrizosa. [[Widow's remorse.]] And to Mr. Riera: how is school his? Why? I've studied public school all my life and worked all my life in public school and university. Why is it more theirs than ours, the school? The Catalan school is everyone's. [[Greetings.]] And what is that that Catalan school doesn't play? The Catalan school will play it as much as ever to truly hold a model of success. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.146.0	We're calling it a vote. Is there any request...? [[Bernat Sole and Barril ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Solé?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.147.0	Just like Mrs. Sierra hasn't told us about the papers... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mrs. Sierra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.148.0	Say'm, say'm, Lord Solé. Quiet, please, or don't, don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.149.0	Yeah. As Mrs. Sierra has not told us about the papers, it is to clarify that points 3 and 4 are rebutted in the emena that we have presented. That's it, huh? [[Pause.]] Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.150.0	All right. Any more cheers? Any separate request for a vote? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.151.0	On behalf of our parliamentary group, we would call for a separate vote on points 2 and 7, which could be taken jointly by us, and point 6 separately. She's left, together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.152.0	All right. So, if there's no other separate motion for a vote, we'll vote. We would vote first on points 2 and 7, together; later on, point 6, and finally, the rest of the motion, huh? The vote on points 2 and 7 begins. These points are approved by 64 votes to 61, with no abstentions; three Members present who have not voted. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. This point was approved by 63 votes in favour, against 60 abstentions; three Members present who did not vote. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. This motion..., the rest of the motion is approved by 125 votes in favour, against, no abstentions and three Members present who have not voted. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the social, economic and labour consequences of the tourism model]] [[302-00016/12]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, the twenty-two point, is the Movement following the question to the Government about the social, economic and labor consequences of the tourism model. Presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, the motion is exposed by the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.153.0	Good afternoon, everyone. In this plenary we have spoken more than once about tourism. What is certain is that we have done so from various and very different points of view: from one band there are those who respond to the logic of continuous and excessive growth, and we try to do so from the conviction that only touristic decline policies will be able to put a stop to the difficult consequences of extraneous tourism on the territory, on the housing and on the working conditions of the working class. Tourism and climate change go hand in hand and will forever change the human, political and economic economy of our country and the Mediterranean. In view of this, in recent years there have been many plataforms and collections organized to denounce the severe consequences of the current tourism model. They all agree that it is not a fight against tourism or tourists, but against the extractive model and the way it has been managed so far. Platforms like Ciutat for whom l'Habita, of Palma ; Entre Barris, in València ; Aturem Barcelona World, of Vila-seca i Salou ; Més Barri, of Girona ; the Assembly of Barris for a Sustainable Tourism ; Las Kellys ; the platform SOS Costa Brava, and many other branches of the country. On the other hand, and against his voice, against the voice of the veins and of the organized workers, we have the lobbyists and the institutions that are dedicated to glossing the excellencies of the tourist industry and to ignoring and shutting down their misery, conflicts and cruelty that are more and more intense each day and are more evident: the gentrification to the barrel, the expulsion of the veins, the massification, the contamination and the destruction of the territory, the precariousness of the labor, the loss of identity, the destruction of the vein tissue and the transformation of the cities and municipalities of this country into sea scenes, in parades. It is urgent to establish a general moratorium on any type of new construction of tourist accommodation throughout the territory. It's one of the proposals we make. Tourist activity in general, and especially tourist accommodation, has a direct and negative impact on housing. The total prices of products, services, from food to transport are evidence. But I insist that perhaps the cruelest reality is that it has consequences on housing, which prevents the veins that can continue to live in their barrels. And this cruelty is greater if the investors, who are the same people who speculate with the soil and the habitation, do so with the view of the institutions and the emperor of the law. The price of the lloger in Catalonia has disappeared a 49_per_cent in the last four years. Since the sixties, 70 percent of the Principality's coastline has been urbanized here, and it has been folded with dramatic consequences for the pre-charitable working class, which we have more than once laid on the table. 37_percent of tourism contracts are less than one year long. The Kellys collection, for example, covers two euros and a half an hour; this is the result of labour exploitation, and is the result of the extractive model that has been defended in this country for the last forty years of neoliberal policies. Presenting proposals for productive alternatives to tourism, based on the development of the local economy, respect for the environment and the dignity of work places, is simply an exercise of responsibility. It is a clear compromise for long term policies different from those that, as I said, we have known in the last forty years of an autonomous community. Autonomic policies to serve speculative interests, is what we sadly see in the daily action of this government. That's why we're presenting this young man, and we're doing it side by side, to give him a look, of the movements that are behind him, while you basically want to hear the needs of us. As I've said more than once, we don't want to live in trimmers, we don't want to live in city trimmers, and we want to live in cities that are worthy and that don't drive us out of our barrels and that we can work in jobs with all dignity. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.154.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, Mrs Eva Baró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.155.0	Well, thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Councillors, from the Group of the Republic we have already explained in the final plenary, a couple of weeks ago, what is our tourism model; and, of course, it has not changed. Our model is based on three main axes: to guarantee the quality and sustainability of the services to tourists and visitors, and all that entails; to promote as well as to preserve our natural cultural heritage, and all that entails; to understand that the Barcelona brand is key to enhancing the tourist activity of the country, and all that entails. This motion we are debating today was already debated on June 2, 2017, last parliamentary term. He had fourteen points. Various groups – Common, Citizens, Together for the Yes at that time – we presented reviews at that time, but the fact is that they ended up trading a little and approved only a few points of all fourteen points that were above the table, mainly those that had to see with the working conditions of the workers in the sector; the rest were not approved. Since then we have had a few few government months: the last five months of the previous legislature and the first five months of the present; between me there was the aberration of 155. For those who have blanks and surprises of memory, we had a 155 thanks to the votes of the PP, of Ciutadans, of the PSOE; a 155 that paralyzed us and mismatched the institutions and, for the rest, the country, for seven long months. With a few months of government, things can't have changed much yet; there hasn't been much time. And, also, the companies of the CUP present again a motion of tourism that does not cease to be a déjà-vu; it is exactly the same motion as then, the same fourteen points, identical, and five of us added, certainly. As in order to transform reality, more than insisting, insisting and insisting, later or by the time to generate consensus, arriving at compromises, giving up perhaps a little to gain a little more, I considered – it seemed to us – that the companies of the CUP returned to present the motion for, this time yes, having a little more waist and being able to pull it forward with a little more success than at that time. I do not know how they must have interpreted the rest of the parliamentary groups, bearing in mind that she is a long-term young woman, on an important subject, and no one else has presented a single question. Of the fourteen points that have been debated, thread by thread, at June 2017, we will again vote in favour of exacting the same three points that have already been debated and approved in your parliament at that time, referring, as it cannot otherwise be, to the dignity of the workplaces of the sector, to public enterprises and to the audits of ski resorts rescued with public money. We have not succeeded – we have not been able to succeed, I admit – in the papers presented. We will not, therefore, support the remaining eleven points. And for what he does to the five points he adds, huh? In order to reach the denou of this long and extensive motion, we have presented papers to all of them and we will vote in favour of the emena, of the only emena that has been chosen. Mirin, from the Republican Group we think that the Catalan tourism model sure – sure – is better, because there is always room for better. That is why we like to listen to ideas and proposals from other parliamentary groups, without prejudice. But one thing is to make contributions to want to improve the model, and the other is the involved baton of this movement, in which there are calls for moratoriums throughout the territory, cancellations of plans, deletions, reduction to zero, reiterate, stop subsidizing, not executing, etcetera, etcetera; practically, no concrete proposal that allows you to discern possible outputs, solutions, alternatives, a little light to compensate for what, according to you, is so bad and so bad. There are several reasons that prevent us from giving support to a good part of the young person's points. In our view, some of us do not seem sufficiently viable or realistic; of other assemblies we see counter-productive – the moratorium on constructions throughout the territory may harm areas, given that the touristic reality of the whole territory is not, in absolute, homogeneous–, or it seems to us that some points do not comply with the normative will that precisely should allow you to regulate certain questions that you pose– and I refer to the forward coastal planning project–; in some cases they propose to deregulate – not to modify the existing regulation, to deregulate; in the appearance that it is an area that you cannot afford –; of others affect municipal autonomy – when, for example, they demand that all the Costa Brava joints review their plans, etcetera. I look, in any case, from the Republican Group we think that, in order to influence and transform the reality that surrounds us, sooner or later I may be willing to reach enough consensus and majority. Any other approach is legitimate, but sometimes it seems to respond more to the desire to please voters, parishes, more than anything else.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.156.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.157.0	It's over, Mr. President. And all this, at risk of falling into, if I may, a certain day of the marmot, insisting, insisting, insisting. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.158.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return to the Juntas Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it's the return of Congressman Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.159.0	All right, thank you, President. Well, he's described to us a tourist situation in Catalonia that we can't share in any way. With all this, and before we begin to explain our sense of vote, I would like to greet the President, the Councillors, the Director General of Tourism and all of you. Listen to me, we will vote yes to study whether the Costa Brava..., to study which measures can apply on the Costa Brava, whether or not the limits of tourist load have been exceeded. We will vote in favour of his proposal for points 10 and 11, which deal with the dignity of the tourist sector's job places, as it could not otherwise be. We are in favour of people working with dignity in the tourism sector and in any other sector. And we will vote in favour of conducting audits at the Generality's ski resorts. The rest of us cannot vote in favour, absolutely. And, look, I brought them a magazine. [[The orator shows it.]] I brought them a magazine, I brought them a study, huh? It is not a magazine..., nor a catalogue of tourism to talk about tourism, is The Observers, the onze study of the Red Cree about the poor, The poor in Catalonia. And this girl from here – a lady already –, this lady from here was getting help from the Red Cree. The Red Cree formed this lady because at some point I could find work. This lady is said to be Bianca, this lady is forty years old, she has two children kissing, she has a sick mother, and she lived in Roses. He'll find work. And Mr. Enric Morist, the other day, to the Labour Commission, Social Affairs and Families, told us that the exit from the poor was a question that did not only compete with third-sector entities, but with society as a whole. And in particular, he talked about the businessman who hired this lady, who let him in and out of the hours she was getting along so that I could take the kids to school. So, not all of them... it's from Roses, to be able to get the Magda to know her, if she works for the Terrace group. Not all the externalities of the tourism model are painful, years the other way around. And we agree that there are some, and there are some in the field of tourism work. Tourism wages, for example. They are wages that need to be raised, but because they can raise wages in the tourism sector, the first thing we need to do is to have a quality tourism. We have to have a quality tourism, a quality offer that can generate more resources. We must be able to de-seasonalize tourism, which we have tourists throughout the year, which will be able to generate resources for entrepreneurs in order to be able to pay the workers. And we have to be told that tourism is displaced, that we don't have it all concentrated in certain times of the year, in the same place. And it is clear that we must do so, but all the measures that you propose are against these three requirements. We need the policies of the Catalan Agency of Tourism. Why? To have a sustainable and competitive tourism. I would just miss, of course we need the Catalan Tourist Agency. We need to regulate tourist use habitats. It was a field that was able, before the regulation of tourist use habitats. We need to have tourist municipalities in order to be able to donate a suitable commercial offer to the tourists we have here. I'd just miss it – I'd just miss it. We need to have the tax on stays in tourist establishments, and we need the Government of the Generality to be able to make policies of seasonalization and redistributive policies of tourism. If all the state tax in tourist establishments in the joints, 78_percent of the tax would be in the hands of fifteen municipalities. How can we contribute to what we said before we need to share the tourists? Of all the ways, 53_percent of the tax has gone to petar in the municipalities, via direct input, or via foment plans. In short, they have detected the problems; we believe that the solutions they provide are not the necessary ones. We are to have a good governance of tourism, but we are not against tourism. We have to order the tourism, not eliminate it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.160.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.161.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Well, today we are here to discuss the ecological and diverse consequences of tourism. I personally believe that, like society, it is a great thing that some people want to plan or present tourism, that it is a great source of wealth for Catalan society, as a problem. And, in fact, that's where it was said. The deputies of the CUP..., Mrs Sánchez, in fact, in her previous intervention, has presented, in form..., without beginnings, tourism as a problem. I want to remember that tourism represents 12_percent of Catalonia's GDP; it gives work to 13.6_percent of the occupied population of Catalonia. There are half a million Catalans and their families live thanks to tourism. Therefore, presenting tourism, which is a great source of material and spiritual wealth for Catalonia, as a problem, seems to me, if not, alienated. I think we need to raise the problem or the question in a much more constructive way. That tourism can generate externalities that some may consider negative, or that tourism can generate inconveniences? I don't doubt it. Talk to us. But let's talk about it. I believe that the way to try to resolve these externalities is not precisely the attitude they have had, for example, Young people of the CUP, of Arran, attacking, assaulting tourist buses with gas pots or punching the wheels of these buses. I think that the way, precisely, to continue to feel like a society of collide, like Catalan society, is not precisely with these attitudes of hostility towards tourism. I ask them, to the Lords of the CUP, I imagine that they, who are people traveled, like many of us here, ask them: if they went to London, to Paris or to any other city, how would they feel if they saw the painters of « tourist, go home, « tourists, who leave, who invite them to go outside, who say they are not welcome in these countries? I think that, really, it's an attitude that makes us feel like society and it hurts us enormously. It turns out that we have a party that stands for itself by representing the exclusion and abuse of the interests of Catalans, and they get to make out of Catalonia the tourists, the same way that the President of the Parliament of Catalonia, Nuria de Gispert, does, with the leader of the party voted the most for Catalans, Inés Arrimadas, to whom he systematically invites to leave Catalonia and to go to Jerez. I think that this supremacist attitude, that almost cataloguing of nativism, of pretending to be the authentic Catalans, as if the rest had nothing to say, I think it's..., of course, it's not new, but it's very dangerous. It is exactly the same approach to the progress, to the advent, to the cosmopolitanism that the Carlins of the 19th century had, throughout the first half of the 19th century. And that's why medieval guildism is the tuf behind the CUP's proposal. It is obvious that the CUP's approaches to tourism are very similar to what I was saying, to these Carlinade approaches. And I can only see his last point from the motion: "Stop subsidizing with public money those events addressed to tourists and allocate public resources to the promotion and access to culture addressed to residents. Whatever this culture is meant for the residents, I imagine that this will be decided by you; that the rest of us will have nothing to say and you will be the one who determines the criteria. But what are these criteria? I believe that Catalonia can perfectly allow us to continue encouraging and promoting holidays – which, in fact, are the immaterial tourist heritage of Spain –, such as the Berga Patum, and this is not contradictory with promoting tourism, with promoting tourism, which, I insist, is one of our main riches. You will already forgive me, but you, with your approach, remind me of the anecdote that explained..., or rather the character, Román, a character of an article by Unamuno, which in a correspondence with Ortega and Gasset gave to him so chaste of « that they invent them. This attitude represents the essentialism, the way of hearing the self-referential world of the detractors of the European Union of Spain. One community was very critical with the idea that, insofar as the Spaniards were given to philosophy, literature and other arts, so we didn't have to invent, we didn't have to do science, because that was done by others. Well, we are much more in the line of the Ortega and Gasset plantation with its Europeanism, with its willingness to build a united state of Europe, because we consider that, in the same way that we can, as before, promote popular culture, the local values, I have nothing against localism, nor, of course, the Berga Patum, but I believe that this is perfectly compatible with the promotion of tourism. I think they're obsessed with presenting a reality with parameters, in my opinion, past fashion, static, conflict, class struggle, from Catalonia to Spain, so we'll vote against your motion, precisely because we're betting on an open society, a cosmopolitan society, and a friendly society, which has always been our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.162.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it's the turn of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. Mr. Rafel Bruguera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.163.0	Thank you, President. President, councillors, deputies and deputies, the June of the past year, the CUP, as it was said, presented us with a motion on the tourism model, with fourteen points. Today we debate these same fourteen points and five of us on the coast and the Costa Brava. I refer, therefore, not to repeat myself, to the intervention of the past year, in which he argued the enormous distance between the tourist model of the CUP and ours. Today I will try to bring some new reflection to the exhibits last year. In the motion, you propose measures such as a general moratorium on new constructions; the cancellation of urban management plans, the declassification of urbanizable soils; the elimination of the qualification of tourist municipalities; the disappearance of the tourist promotion; the suppression of the Catalan Tourist Agency; or the cessation of subsidizing events and acts directed at tourists. And these proposals are coherent, I recognize them, with the tourist model that is derived from the inquiry, which is based, and I use their own words, in the following points, from our point of view. U. Tourism is a myth that needs to be disassembled; that is, tourism is, for you, quote from the dictionary, "a fabulous, long-lived relationship that has been magnified and has become a model or prototype. Two. Tourism, as the problem itself, and not as a repte or a better opportunity. Three. Generalised decrease in tourism, not as an option but as an obligation. I, four. A clear interference in the principles – from our point of view, sacred – of local autonomy. We can't disagree more. Does tourism have problems that need to be corrected? Yeah. Does tourism generate negative externalities? Also. Is the coexistence between the tourist and the city complicated in certain places? Effectively. Does tourism have to tend to quality and not quantity? Clear. Does tourism have to be diversified and specialized? Of course. Does tourism have to be sustainable? So much! Does tourism have to generate decent and stable jobs? Necessary. We cannot forget that the tourism sector accounts for 12_percent of Catalan GDP, and, as a minimum, 14_percent of employed people. It is true, however, that in the course of the past few years there have been significant debates and changes in the perception and opinion of residents about the phenomenon of tourism, both in Barcelona and in Catalonia. The later questions tell us that no one doubts the potential of tourism for the development of the towns and cities, but it is undeniable that the debate on the negative effects and the need to govern it properly has been opened. If tourism, as is concrete in the different reports and plans, there has been a collective issue, the first thing we have to do is take action to treat it as a generic thing, to promote activity, necessary to position Barcelona and Catalonia as a tourist reference. Therefore, it is necessary to do a work of awareness to recover the concept of tourism in a positive sense, bearing in mind that it has become a phenomenon with an affluent complication due to the events of these last times, and that it has had a negative impact on its growth. I repeat: let us talk again about the tourism phenomenon in positive, donating, or trying to give an image of stability and trust. And I'm done, Mr. President. And I want to do it as my group's cultural spokesman, and I can't be saying that yesterday Mr. Batet – I don't see it, but they'll explain it to him already – wanted to make an appointment, presumably attributed to Josep Pla, and that was grossly wrong. For your information, I'll explain the good date. [[The speaker shows the book The gray notebook in the chamber.]] Indeed, in The Grey Paper, concretely at the entrance of September 28, 1918, Josep Pla tells his father – read the book –: "He thinks that he who assembles more to a man of the left, in this country, is a man of the right. And Josep Pla's father, when he was talking about his country, was not referring to Catalonia nor was he referring to Spain, he was referring to his country, that is, to Palafrugell. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Batet, I advise you to change the alderman of literary quotes. I want to think that the mistake he made yesterday is the result of the lack of knowledge and reading habits of Pla. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Because, if not, the qualifiers will be a little higher than all. Certainly, Culture Advisor, yesterday, October 24th, was the day of the library. I'd advise you to advise Mr. Batet to visit a little more libraries, he'll do less ridiculous. Thank you. [[You're saying, "Very good! The applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.164.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.165.0	Thank you very much, President. I believe that, in the same way that José María Aznar's Law of the People's Government alone opened the door to deregulation and speculation that led us to the real estate bubble, the problems of our tourist model have a date of iniciators and are responsible. This disembarkation, coinciding with the first year of the Government, is completed seven years of the approval of the famous" laws, those laws which modified a few previous laws, and which together with the presuppositional details, assumed a true doctrine of rock in Catalonia. That Catalonia, led by the government of the best, which, while dismantling the welfare state, privatized public servants and came public heritage, encouraged young people from this country to go to London to serve coffee. This Catalonia, which Councilwoman Elsa Artadi knows well, led by Mas-Colell, opened our cities to tourist deregulation. Seven years after making efforts here and in Madrid to deregulate our cities, The Newspaper headlined: "Why do Airbnb hosts in Barcelona earn more than 84,500_euros a day? These people, who are the pampered speculators of Councillor Mena and Mayor Trias, bought tourist loans at 230 euros a month, which today are worth 80,000, and the great speculators of Airbnb, get more than 2 million euros a month, while Airbnb pays their taxes to Ireland. That's right, at the expense of expelling our veins and our veins from our barrels. The best technocrats of that government didn't change their faces when those who came to demand protection and regulation weren't the visions or the Platform for mortgages, the White Sea or the Grog Sea, they didn't do politics, they only received science. That's right, he was changing their faces when they were stuck with the dogma of deregulation to rescue tourist businesses. He headlined, last year, the public newspaper: "The Generalitat is following millions to rescue ski resorts, and with an astronomical debt. In less than a decade the ski resorts rescued by the Generality accumulated losses of 60_million euros. Enric Ticó, the president of Ferrocarrils, the company through which they were rescued, said that, once rescued and healed – and I quote textually – "we are prepared to some kind of public-private collaboration to improve the yield. Six rescue stations without the generality having chased the debtors, and emboldened already with a latch to return to private hands when they are profitable. In front of Catalonia, which deregulates rights and protects privileges, there is a Catalonia that faces the lobby to protect rights. A Catalonia that has already closed more than 2,400 illegal tourist flats, which has managed today to adopt a decree to protect the Uber and Cabify taxi sector and the returnable foundations. And who defends the territory of Catalonia. A Catalonia that, from the regions and from the territories, requires urban plans to regulate speculative interests and not to feed them, to protect the natural and agrarian spaces from urban pressure and desperate tourism. A Catalonia that demands that workers in the tourism sector be protected from precariousness, subcontracting and the loss of labour rights; that demands, too, that the right be protected to a habitat worthy of the facets and the deregulation of the market of the loguer. In short, that the government broke down with seven years of deregulation, protects Catalonia and allows the territories to plan and order the tourism model to balance the right of the whole territory to be an economic motor and to ensure the coexistence of the rights of the people. Companies and companies of the CUP, we share most points. In some we may not share the style or share some point elements, but most of the points in the motion we share them, and we share something that is fundamental, which is a critique of the current tourist model. We believe honestly in those points that we will not share today, that if we work for them, both from here and, above all, from the territories, we will be able to build wider consensuses that allow us to work together to defend the territories of the fundamental rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.166.0	Thank you, Congressman. Ara, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.167.0	Thank you, President. Three very brief questions. The first is to express, on the part of our party, the recognition of the workers, technicians, and also political leaders, although it may seem surprising, both from the Directorate-General for Tourism and from the Catalan agency. They're good professionals. I have had the pleasure of working with them in stages in the Diputación de Tarragona in its Board of Tourism and in the city hall, and they are not sadists who intend to "trenx the territory and I don't know how many more things, or exploit the workers, but quite the opposite. They want the sector, one of the most powerful economic sectors, to be able to generate employment and to give prestige to Catalonia. Therefore, our recognition. Secondly, all utopian ideologies that promise a new world always have a problem: the idyllic new world never arrives and, in the transit to that idyllic world that never arrives, they make life impossible for you in the only world we have, which is today, here and now. If we applied all the policies that the tourism sector was asked for in this motion, thousands and thousands of people would immediately go to unemployment. I have many friends..., I come from Tarragona, Costa Dorada, that their first jobs, therefore, have been jobs... Obviously, they are not extraordinary jobs nor perfectly paid, but it was what there was. And when you ask them what alternative they propose... no, in five years we will build a new world. No, no, five years, no, and tomorrow? What are you going to do tomorrow? Because, it's that you send thousands of people into unemployment with these kinds of policies. So, leave the new world for your dreams and let people work quietly. And third question. There is a happy expression by Carlos Rodríguez Braun that refers to ultra-left radars; forgiveness for those who consider themselves ultra-left, but I believe that in this chamber we could talk about the CUP radars. Those radars are especially intense, because when there's one thing that works, they find it quickly. If there's any activity that generates employment, wealth or whatever in Catalonia, hey, it's that they go after her in an indescribable way. [[remorse of the voice]] , to destroy the: "It is speculative! It just blows people up! And so on. And the worst of all – the worst of all – is that Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, in the name of sacrosanct independence, have to endure insulting the workers of the Catalan Tourist Agency in the name of I don't know what, instead of saying clearly that you can't go there, that it's the most powerful economic sector in Catalonia, that there are thousands and thousands of people who work there and they don't deserve to be called « speculators or to be said that they are trying to destroy the territory. Please, a little decency, let's put things in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.168.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word, again, the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.169.0	Okay. Some considerations on their interventions to different groups that have expressed themselves on this motion. A point, Mrs Baró: I don't know if you were here last year's legislature, I don't, but it's that we're actually presenting the same points again because the motion is down with the end of the legislature, there's no control report, so I guess you'll know that's it. So it's not that we haven't had time to do the few measures they're going to give it to support, but it's that I couldn't because the young man has fallen and I'm informing you about this. Want to please parishes. Well, today we're next to the people of SOS Costa Brava, who are here. It's not our parish, but it's autonomous movements, the same way we've been on the side of the people of Barcelona World, the people who want decent barrels. This, if I want them to say, "minystentenient, is our parish. Its parish is that of the "Caixa", that of the ridiculous ones with Barcelona World, for example. For example, how is this topic? How do we get the Barcelona World theme? Have they just made a real estate agent for the sale of the land of the Box? , "The Box, sad paper that did the right to self-determination in this country? And finally, to the Deputy of Junts for Catalonia: if you have read this report you have taught, you will see that the situation is that a good part of our workers do not come from the poor, and that, moreover, these workers who do not come from the poor, let's see if they come from which sector? Of the great and miraculous tourism system that you have carried in this country and that has condemned working classes to a great precariousness. Two euros and half an hour to clean hotel rooms is what kellys do every day. We're not making this up, we're not some weird monsters that we're against tourism, it's a daily reality. The coast today of the Costa Brava is threatened with de_ thousand habitats us; a C-32 that is willing to unfold to trench the territory; four buildings us in Cap-roig, five luxury hotels, a golf camp, 272 more moorers in Marina Port d'Haro and a camp at the Massis de Cadiretes. We don't make it up. We're on the side of the view of the territory, which is lifted up because it's sick of this situation, and you don't give them an answer. And of course it's a class struggle, and it's a class struggle that we travel with a lot of people know that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.170.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.171.0	...in Venice, in Donosti, in New York and the world is coming to this idea, and that's a touristic decline. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.172.0	I generally remember, to the Members and the Members, that this is back to position itself on the issues, and usually they don't, and then we have trouble hearing what we're voting for. Therefore, the warning for proper fulls that, please, use this return for the thing that was conceived, which is precisely to position itself to respect the reviews. Mrs. Granados, I was asking for the word. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.173.0	Yes, to ask for separate votes. For one band, 10 and 11, they can go together, and for the other, they can go together, 3, 6, 7, 15 and 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.174.0	If I wasn't wrong, he was pointing at me while you said, 10 and 11 for one side, 3, 6, 7, 15 and 16 for another. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Any other separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Alamany?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.175.0	Yes, all separately, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-25-1802.176.0	Okay. Let's vote, therefore, point by point, separately, this motion of dinosaur points. Let's start voting for point number one. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 116 against and 8 abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. This point is rejected by 4 votes in favour, 115 against, 8 abstentions and one Member who has not voted. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. This point was approved by 107 votes to four, with 16 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. This point, the fifth, is rejected by 12 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 99 against and 17 abstentions. Let's now vote point number seven. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 99 against and 17 abstentions. Let's go now and vote point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8 was rejected by 4 votes to 116, with 8 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point number nine. The vote begins. Point 9 was rejected by four votes in favour, 124 against and no abstentions. Let's just move on to vote point number 10. The vote begins. This point was approved by 126 votes to two, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number 11. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to two, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point 12. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 116 against and 8 abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 13. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. And now we're going to vote point number 14. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 124 against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point 15. The vote begins. This was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 63 against and 53 abstentions. Let's go now and vote point number 16. The vote begins. This point was approved by 109 votes to two, with 17 abstentions. Let's move on to vote on the 17th. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point 18. The vote begins. This point, the split, is rejected by 12 votes in favour, 115 against, no abstention and a Member who has not voted. Let's go now and vote on the new point and get past this young man. The vote begins. This new point of this motion is rejected by 12 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. And if we didn't leave any of this young man behind, we would have voted it all out. There is no more point in the order of the day to deal with. Therefore, the session rises. Thank you very much.
