ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.1.0	Good morning, let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government on the administration of propitious resources and the fight against social inequalities]] [[300-00015/12]] [[The new item on the agenda is the Government's inquiry into the administration of propitious resources and the fight against social inequalities, presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The question is made by Mr Antoni Morral.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.2.0	Good morning, President. Deputies, deputies, members of the Government, President of the Generality, very good morning to everyone. The government has started the political management of this legislature for a few weeks now, and this Parliament, therefore, has also started its activity on an ordinary basis. From Juntes per Catalunya, at this moment we also want to take advantage of the opportunity to ask the government, in the sense of underlining what we consider to be one of the priorities in this legislature. First of all, we want to pose as a manifesto, too, that this is not a normal legislature. We follow what is the repression of the State, in its legal version of 155, which is still in force. And the government, which, in fact, should be here, we have in prison and exile. In fact, this is not a normal situation; at what point, that our own parliamentary group would not exist today if it had not been for the October 1 events. Well, I assure you, I wouldn't be here myself right now talking to you. This legislature will inevitably be shaken by the conflict between Catalonia and Spain, while the question of funds is not addressed politically. As long as the question of funds is not addressed, this conflict will remain alive. We're still today, however, resilient, we're a few days away from what the dial is about with the State. But until Catalonia is recognized as a political subject and its right to self-determination, which today should go, under the circumstances, coupled with the judicialization of the proceedings and the release of political prisoners, the situation cannot be normal, from the point of view of the way. The conflict begins..., and here many times it is mentioned that September 6 and 7 is when the conflict with Catalonia and Spain begins, the conflict we have, open, at these times, with the State. Let us remember that this is not the case, the problem that has arisen from the table begins, when the same Constitutional Court raises the voice of Catalans in relation to the aim of the Statute of Autonomy. It is from here that everything that has happened starts, it is from here that it is justified on September 6th and 7th and the moment where we are. Inevitably, this legislature is marked by this fact. Tanmateix, this legislature begins in an economic context full of uncertainties. Conventional indicators tell us that we are in the post crisis, that economic activity is growing, that gross domestic product is growing and exports are growing. But, at times, we observe structurally situations of chronic poverty, social inequalities, job insecurity, long-term unemployment, difficulties in taking a stand. We see how public services are collated, in sanitation, in social services. Today we are talking about the problems of the disabled and the local people, who do not have the skills to solve them. This must be a legislature of maximum ambition in social policies, betting on equal opportunities, fighting the poor, promoting employment, promoting access to housing and the boost of guaranteed citizenship income. And it will also be up to us to innovate in social policies to look for new responses to our emerging problems, derived from the multiple factors such as the demographic trend to aging, the multiplicity of life forms, the presence of technology in the productive spheres, the gathering of refugees, the energy crisis, a new need for time management, and so many changes that affect the daily life of people. And, in this sense, it will be necessary to open the social debate about the country we want; a constituent and republic debate, from nearness, with the people. Social ambition, debate and proximity is the antidote to combat the risk of social fracture. And so, let us expose those who, from a premeditated and planned political will, claim to break the Catalan society for identity feelings, posing borders on freedom and qualifying as partyists the deep bonds of solidarity with whom he suffers from unjust imprisonment. Yesterday, Congressman Ferran Pedret expressed it in his own way. He said: "Those who want two communities, those who want two reports. Okay. So these aren't us. A community alone, a relationship alone, a country determined to build its future in freedom, to have more progress and more benefit. Benvingut follows the debate, however; legitimate, he follows the model of country that suits us, if independent, federal, autonomous, unionist, but in no way – in no way – that of identity segregation. Let's talk about it and decide democratically, just like mature countries do: democratically. In this way, in this legislature social ambition will be closely linked to national ambition; to play, with a known expression, the independent Catalan republic will be social or will not be. Today, the conquest of the most sovereign, the most sovereign, is a necessity. It will have to be defended for everyone that the wealth generated by the country is destined for the citizenship of the country that needs it most. It will have to be defended for everyone that the legislative instruments adopted in this room are useful and not left to the Constitutional Court. So, it will be the people who will not fall into the paranoia of the identity fracture, which today has not yet happened, because the resilience and strength of the Catalan society is incredible. The culture of respect, of coexistence, of pau, of the will to gather has been imposed. Values of a country, ours, knowing that it has been built, its identity, from respect for difference and mestissatge. This is a deep set of arrangements, which we must aggravate to the authentic structures of the state, which have cultivated it with effort and daily compromise, such as our Catalan school, the associated fabric, the conjunction of public servants, a good part of the civic compromise, which keep alive the values of freedom, of human rights; values so present in these moments in the streets and in the places and public manifestations before the repression that we suffer. With this strategy, the government will not be alone, it will find us accompanied, it will find it accompanied by the city power, advanced in the mandate of '1 October. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, the Vice-President, Mr Pere Aragonès, replied.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.4.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Generality, Counsellor, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies... Deputy Morral, thank you for your intervention. I coincide, I mean I coincide with what you have expressed here today, in the chamber, where the risk of the left, the risk of the fracture that may be in our country, is a risk not based on identification, not based on identities that we have each other, not based on origin, but on inequalities. In fact, it's not new; in fact, it's not the only one in Catalonia. We are a society, like the rest of the societies around us; a society that is seeing an increase in inequalities in this accelerated process of economic globalisation, economic integration, in all senses, that causes a lot of movement. And among others, too, an increase... and above all, if we look at it with a historical perspective, in the long run, in the last twenty, thirty years, there has been an increase in inequalities. Therefore, the importance of not leaving anyone behind, the importance of building public policies so that society is as cohesive as possible, in accessing the resources that will enable it to manage its life plan, to guarantee equal opportunities, is fundamental. So, where there are..., the problems that we should be dealing with, we understand, obviously it's not that false fracture depending on the origin, because you haven't felt, because, if not, some of us would have to break ourselves, but the question of inequalities, the need to reduce these inequalities and, therefore, to guarantee access by all citizens to a dignified life, right? As you said, there is a speech that is made by some political spaces where what you say is that this country is socially fractured by language, by identity, and it's not like that. As I said before, the diversity of origins in our country isn't from now on, it's been... a long time. Catalonia is a society that has characterized itself, from more than four hundred years ago, for successive waves of incorporation of citizens, of people from other territories, who have been configuring what is today's Catalonia. And Catalonia in fifty years will be the result of the new processes of incorporation, of arrival in the country, of departure from the country, of intercanvi of citizenship, of citizens who are born to us, that are from other areas, right? And as I said, the..., surely, therefore, this Parliament is the clearest show that..., the risks of division in our country, in our society, of affecting social cohesion, are not the origins, of the ways; because, I insist, if not some of us would be fractured personally, because we all have origins, therefore, of many different areas, if not the need to guarantee social cohesion. The government is committed to ensuring social cohesion. In fact, we are compromised, and that is why we claim to have all the tools to guarantee this social cohesion, to be able to have all the resources to guarantee this social cohesion. Catalonia, therefore, allocates just over 20 % of gross domestic product to the area of expenditure and social investment; therefore, what the Generalitat does, in terms of fonamental, and the pension system, in terms of fonamental. These are the two great axes. When we compare this with the territories of Western Europe, the EU-15 with which we like to feel identified, we see, therefore, that this percentage increases to 30_percent. And that's not because of the lack of capacity to manage expenditure on the part of the Generality, but precisely because of the lack of capacity to generate resources, the country's workers, which we generate as consumers in this country, and the benefits that this country's businesses generate, so they don't revert to their totality as much as we want. The persistent tax deficit of 8_percent of GDP is not a good show, is it? In fact, we also need other tools to be able to face the risks in social cohesion, and I will put two indicators: we have a 12_per_cent of the time, but we have a 20_per_cent of the population at risk of poverty. How can you do that front? So many ways, in a way, and the honourable Member mentioned it a short time ago, with the deployment of the guaranteed income of citizens; of this, we can say that we have recourse. For another band, with the action, therefore, in areas, especially, in the area of childhood, in the area of large people, in the field of public policies, that we are pushing from the government; but also in the area of wages. And that's important. In fact, the wage contraction in Catalonia was greater than in the rest of the territories of the State; in fact, it was 5.3_percent from 2008 to 2016. The wage mass in the complex of the country's wealth has declined in the past few years. So the pes of wages is lower, in line with other economies like ours, right? We also have a price differential, which means that public benefits are equal, or, also, at wage level, if they are equal, if there is no such adjustment in wages, through the collective bargaining of the territorial area, so a wage in Catalonia or Madrid does not allow access to the same level of resources as the same wages in other territories of the State, where the price level is lower, also in public resources – also in public resources. We have a financing system that does not incorporate the question of the priests. And the priests in Catalonia are much more cars. And, therefore, with the same euro, Catalonia can do less, because here resources are more cars; wages, although they are not what we want, are higher than in other territories. The price, therefore, of services, of goods, of goods is higher. There is a level of living, therefore, of higher cost of living than in other territories. Therefore, with the same euro, therefore, the Government of Catalonia cannot do the same as a government of some other territories of the State. Therefore, as the government, obviously, the question of inequalities concerns us; it is one of the fundamental axes of our governance plan, the struggle against inequalities. And, in this sense, as I said, the inn on the way to guaranteed citizenship income. In the past few years we have generated nine tax figures to advance towards a fairer taxation, both socially and environmentally. It is obvious that we must guarantee, and therefore we are open to studying all the changes that need to be made to ensure that the tax system, therefore, has the progress it deserves. In the area of access to habitat is compromised. The latest announcement, therefore, of this allocation of credits worth 250_million euros, from the Catalan Institute of Finance, to obtain 1,800 dwellings to social loguer; an increase of 30_percent of the contract with the special centers of work; the fight against school dropout; vocational training, which is a phone book. Therefore, we have all these challenges. In order to have these challenges, we need decision-making capacity and resources. We are convinced, this government, and therefore we agree with Juntes for Catalonia, in the sense that these decision-making tools and resources will keep them as independent as they are. It'll be the ones who... the ones we need will only have if we're an independent state. And this is also one of the elements, one of the main elements, that moved us to get involved in the Republican project of Catalonia's independence. In the road, in this way, so obviously, we do what we do is fight for all the resources we can have, for all the tools to improve the living conditions of our people. In recent years, the financing model of the autonomous communities has produced a debt increase in the pool of autonomous communities of €85,000_million for lack of funding, due to poor application of the financing model. The Government of Catalonia did not say this, the Valencia Institute for Economic Research said this. Therefore, there is a part here that will need to be corrected, mainly in application of the principles of the current model. In addition, the State has 6,000_million debts, outstanding commitments with Catalonia, on the basis of agreements already made, and elements forming part of the legal order. Therefore, in all these aspects, we will obviously be fighting. And we will – and I will end this – also with civic participation. The policies of civic participation are fundamental, not only for the drawing of the country to come, of the country we want, of this country which was clearly expressed on October 1st, of this country which is already being built, this foundational element which is on October 1st, of this country which is a republic, but also for the policies of the day to day. This is why transparency policies, open data and participation are one of the axes of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.5.0	Thank you, Vice President. For the answer, it's Congressman Morral's turn again. From the escho, I interpret, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.6.0	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you, President. I'm giving up the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.7.0	Thank you. [[Asking the Government about the public communication media of the Generalitat]] [[300-00010/12]] We continue with the following inquiry, therefore, which is about the public communication media of the Generalitat, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The honourable Member, Mrs Andrea Levy, explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.8.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mrs Artadi, it is an honor to be able to greet you personally for the first time since this legislature began. This is the first time I have addressed you and I am questioning this Parliament on this issue. But the issue is not new, you will know that I have already taken it many times, on repeated occasions to this plenary in the previous parliamentary term, also in committee. And the object you pour is not new, because it is repeated in time, and perpetuates what are our fears, our doubts and our reservations about what you are going to do with the public media in Catalonia. And it is, this reservation, because, I know you surprised me that you made the first ad – and if I'm wrong, it corrects me – but one of the first ads you made was just that extra money injection to TV3, those 20_million, over 20_million_euros to TV3, as if the TV3 budget, right? , was little, and even more money was needed on public television in Catalonia. I know I'm going to try to have a good tone. I'm gonna try to make this a... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I'm telling you, Mrs. Artadi, we have an opportunity today to greet us for the first time, look what it's going to be..., the tone is going to be constructive. I'm glad you look me in the face for the first time. I know, I think it has to be constructive because I don't want the media in Catalonia to be yours alone. On the contrary, I believe that you should ensure that the public media are a reflection of that plural and diverse Catalonia. But that leads us to have doubts and reservations when, for example, we see that on public television in Catalonia, documentaries are issued to whiten, for example, Mr Sánchez and Mr Cuixart in a..., which we believe is a further argument of defense, of defense that should be made by his lawyers rather than on public television in Catalonia. And, look, if we can have doubts and reservations that TV3 does not comply with that pluralism – and please do not confuse me with pluralism with quotas, that of that, if not, I can explain it to you and I can tell you because they are different –, that the electoral board gave us the reason twice during the election campaign, because that political pluralism had not been fulfilled especially in those editorials that they do from Catalunya Ràdio, by a professional who seems to us far from having that objectivity in which he should give his opinion, therefore, from the mornings. But, I know, I'm going to tell you one thing, and that's why I want this inquiry that I'm doing to you at least this first time, then from here I'm going to do my opposition in whatever you think. You know that more and more public television, and television in general, have a relative influence on political opinion. For this reason, perhaps it would be good for TV3, for example, not to be cooped up by the four producers of independence friends, and perhaps it could be opened up to other producers of a very powerful audiovisual sector in Catalonia, and that you are precisely killing by giving the producers « friends those programs, that what you are looking for is not..., it is not, fix se, a neutral television, objective and of everyone's taste, but that what you are looking for is just doing agitation programs at a time, in our opinion, that what the public media should do is call calm and tranquillity. And when the public media should call for calm and tranquillity you – you – in your position on TV3, what you have dedicated yourself to is charging the television grill with programs of political agitation in which you already by contract tell them that you should not be objective, that what you should be generating audience. Public television is not to generate audience, it's okay to generate audience, but what you have to be, as objective and plural as possible. If you ask those programmes that, in the end, we do not need the names, we know them, to give a hearing, they are not actually generating a political content that we might like or that might seem interesting to us to encourage debate and political pluralism in Catalonia with neutrality, no; they are looking for that agitation. And I don't say that. It's just that, you know, one of the biggest producers of TV3, your friend – let me just say it like that, but it is – it's the same one that says in that TV3 program that TV3 is an independent television, which is at the service and transmission belt of independence. So, are you going to keep putting your hands on TV3 so that it's the last cut you have left where you hang the falsehoods, lies and whitenings of the independence process or are you going to have, I think, the good intention of making a television that's not just for your share, for yours, for your sector? Because, I know, I already know what he's going to say to me, he's going to say to me, "It's just that TV3 is a lead audience. You're right, but you know why? Because it is a television that has specialized in the concentration of a particular audience: its own, that of its voters, that of its voters, that of the independenceists. That's not public service because it leaves a whole part of Catalan society out of tune TV3, and you know it's true. You know it's true because I'm convinced you'll have friends who aren't independents and sure you don't watch TV3 anymore, I'm sure they've already detonated it. People like me, who I have always defended and said that there were high quality programs and programs that were also referent – referent – because it is the audiovisual sector in Catalonia, that were referent of TV3 in other times, now they are no longer, we no longer have those exportable programs, because they are only programs designed to be a channel of party propaganda and politics of independence. And to the facts I refer, the non-independenceists, believe me, we have detonated media that are expensive, oversized and that do not bring neutrality to the political debate. I insist and say to you, you know the least influence these media have at the moment, and you have the opportunity to actually do a public service; a public service that goes beyond the necessary debate of political pluralism and be a reference for its information quality. It can also be an element that helps the necessary dynamism of the audiovisual sector in Catalonia, which, as I have said, is very important and which has producers besides that they would be grateful and young professionals who would be grateful to have this opportunity to work with TV3 and which is now vetoed by the concentration of four producers in particular who take all the cake from the cake. I ask you, and if I can reach that compromise with you, Mrs Artadi, that I am very glad that we look at each other for the first time in this legislature... [[remorse of the voice]] I ask you, for the first time – with many of you... [[the remorse of the voice persists]] Well, man, we've already looked at each other, but with Mrs. Artadi...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.9.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.10.0	... well, I didn't have that pleasure and I celebrate it, and besides, you already see that I have and I bring good tone – but I would appreciate it if we would commit ourselves to not agitating social tension at least in the coming times on TV3. I'd ask you to feel on TV3 or we could all feel recognized. I would ask you on TV3 to stop doing business with the friends of independence and I would ask you to finally TV3 be a TV that could tune up in all Catalan homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Councillor of the Presidency, Mrs Artadi, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.12.0	All right. Good morning, everybody. Thank you, honourable Member, not only for all that I really appreciate, but also for the inquiry. I made the appearance today a week ago in Parliament; we should have had the opportunity to debate this issue as well. To their party they dedicated twenty-three seconds to this in the first intervention and exactly zero in the second, because they decided to leave in the middle appearance. Therefore, I thank him, and I sincerely say to him, that today we can talk about communication media. There are some of the fears that you have commented that I fully agree with it: the communication media objective and the object. And the way we understand them, not only from the government, but I understand that also from the Catalonian Parliament, it is that they must improve the democratic quality and, for this reason, they must be able to provide plural, true information, opinions that enclose all sensitivities; they must be a motor – and you must be a reference – of the Catalan audiovisual industry – we continue to export products: Merli, for example, now you see Netflix, the programme Elforster has copied to state-run televisions... – and you must also be an impulse – that seems to me to have not made a reference, but sure that we share it – from the culture and the Catalan language. It seems to us that these tasks are essential, and that's why you have the assumption you have, TV3. Indeed, it refers to the 20,4_million that were for Mr. Montoro, in the face of the interference of interpretations that had been made about VAT and that were scandalizing not only the corporation, but the televisions of other territories of the Spanish State. Before I mentioned it, you already had this subject in the last legislature. I invite you... in all that we can improve, I'm at your disposal, and I honestly say so. It also seems that you are not the only person in your group – and it is normal – who talks about TV3. His company, Mr. García Albiol, in the middle of the campaign, made an ugly reference to having TV3 closed and – I quote – « open with normal people. Well, I guess there was an intention to do it through 155, which finally couldn't be. And you talk, it seems to me, doesn't it? What kind of television model do we have? Then I also ask them: what television model do you think you should have? Because when you have ruled, in the case of Spanish Television, we have had an extraordinary enough fact: that the same Spanish Television Information Council, that is to say, the same workers, have denounced to the European Parliament Spanish Television for lack of plurality and manipulation of television, which has originated the names – and that we all know; I suppose that all – « become blacks, where the presenters must dress black, dol, to denounce the lack of freedom in their expressions. I'm not going to quote everything the Spanish Television Informatius Council says, because we'd be a long time away, but explain, right? , as if it were to stop his work, as there is an unworthy manipulation and a censorship of events, especially referring to '1 October, it is to say, if it is to prevent, from the writing of Sant Cugat, to issue information, it is to say, to do his work, which is not the first time; they speak of the distortion of the reality that is offered to the citizen, giving a ridiculous image and grotter. And, I repeat, I don't go on, because we'd be a long way off. Then I'm asking you what kind of television you have. I guess you don't have to be the model of Castella and Lleó, even though your escort company also made reference during the campaign, right? , to say – and you also talked about the presupposition – : « How does TV3 have a presupposition of 300_million and Castella and Lleó have thirty? Well, Castella and Lleó are thirty because it's a private television, which is owned by two builders; it's not a public television. And it's a private television... you said audience isn't important; well, I think it is. The audience of the television of Castella and Lleó, for example, at a central moment, as could be the bells of Cap d'Any, made a screen quota of 0.0, a zero technical. But it's that during the year the screen share medium is the lowest of any of the territorial televisions, with a median of 1.8, compared to the corporation's, which is 18.4, that's to say, sometimes more. Maybe his model is Channel 9, which they decide to lock. Or maybe his model is Telemadrid, in which they make a documentary – and before you refer to documentaries – they did make a documentary about the 11-M tempts that ended with an ETA logo at the end of the documentary. Or that they give rules of how to refer to the political parties to Telemadrid stating that, obviously, Telemadrid cannot be spoken in català and that the Catalan political parties must translate to the castle – « Catalonia Yes You Can –, and with a look on the off they give the instructions said: « Podemos' white mark in catalúña, which I think was not a hijacker. I don't know if this is his model or not. We try, from the part that we can, to the part that we can influence from the government, from the part that we can influence as Members of this Parliament, but always with the independence that they must have. Since the government we don't make contracts with producers, we don't sign them; I guess that's clear. In three axes: audience – to you it did not seem that this was uplifting; we believe it is – quality of information and plurality. Hearing. This month of June is the 11th consequence that TV3_has returned to being the leader of the audience, two points per envelope of Telecinco, four and a half points per envelope of Antena 3, 5,6 per envelope of Four, 6,7 per envelope of Sixth and seven points per envelope of Spanish Television. They match data – and it's certainly not random – with a comparison at European level on the credibility and confidence generated by European state television. And it gives the chance that Spanish Television is the one that gets the lowest score: 40_per_cent of the citizens of the Spanish State distrusts Spanish Television, twice as much as in Italy and France, which are the following, and thirty points above the Nordic countries. Quality. It's true, it's not just the amount and the audience that's important, it's also the quality. There are different studies of independent entrepreneurs who are dedicated to conducting market research in Europe, such as the GfK consultant, and systematically show that TV3 is the most valued generalist channel for viewers of years ago and that in this 2018_has established a new record both at global level and in the quality of its information, much above any other television that is seen in Catalonia. Panels also say that it's not just that of the highest confidence, but that they're the most credible. The CEO, who TV3 continues to feel the preferred channel to learn about Catalans; but also the CIS, not just the CEO, says so, in case you don't like the CEO – I don't know. Pluralism. You know..., and if you want to talk more about it and if you want to look at any of these days, at a work session, the reports that the CAC does, but TV3 and Catalunya Radio are audited every month, with studies of observance of the pluralism that the CAC does both in which they are the informants, with the presence of different political actors, the time to write and the proportion of each of them. Reports are public, they have data, they're accessible to everyone. And what they show or show these studies is that TV3 as much information as they do in Catalonia Radio are not just the leaders in the audience, but also the most plural and diverse. This is done, the same, also, with the tertules in specific days, as they were, for example, October 1 or December 21. All these studies can be consulted. You mean you don't have to do any more work? Of course, more work needs to be done, and it is clear that any citizen or deputy, especially the CAC, can be called upon to improve in these studies, in the methodology, etc. The majority of the decisions taken by the CAC, I am sure, are unanimous. So... well, I guess we're not that different, but any better, I repeat, forward. Cal's still getting better? Yeah. The last legislature had a joint debate on the new Audiovisual Law, which went on to work in two lines, one short term and one long term. Obviously..., then, no hindrance, on the contrary, because this joint pose is taken back and the work is done. And now, when I play again, keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's the congresswoman's turn again. Lady Levy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.14.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Artadi, I ask you for wheat and you say to me, 'Rodrigo. It's okay to be a counselor, I understand your role, but don't lose the freshness that sometimes, by carrying the written notes, the Member will surprise you, change your tone, and you pull forward with an intervention that had prepared you or prepared yourself and you haven't responded to anything I had told you or in the tone I had told you – in the tone I had told you. Because you have told me about the televisions of Castile and León, you have told me about the televisions of Madrid, you have told me about many televisions, but I ask for your model! So, your model is against it? No, your model has to be positive. So don't explain to me what the others are like, the bad thing, always the enemy outside of nationalism who has to always seek to complain and say: "We are such. No, listen, be self-critical, because I think we've come to make an inquiry, and that's my job as an opposition, just – just – to improve TV3. You told me about the European Parliament. Yes, you also know that complaints have just been made in the European Parliament, and they are currently under discussion, because of the lack of pluralism on TV3. That, I insist, is not quota, it is not that you look at how much the Citizens' Lords, the PP Lords or the Lords of Podemos in Catalonia speak. No, it's just that there's pluralism in the eye. And pluralism in the eye is not that they make programs of political talk of agitation in which the issue is only independence and the process, in which the mental framework, when you plug in the TV, is teleprocess, because that is not pluralism. That's not pluralism, that's not making modern television, that's not making quality television, it's not. That's having producers and friends who make us the programs that are the transmission chain of what the Government of the Generalitat says. You tell me about the complaints on Spanish Television. Well, let's face it, maybe it's because there's pluralism on the staff in Spanish Television; just like TV3 workers don't complain because they all think the same thing and they all think the same thing as the government. [[Widow's remorse.]] Maybe, maybe that's why. Otherwise, what are you hanging yellow ties from, just like you on the benches, on the facade of the TV3 building? Call the audience. I do not say that the audience is not important, but it is that, when you focus on a particular audience, you are leaders in Catalonia but because the dispersion of the rest of the generalist channels, if you add it to where those who are not independent can feel reflected, do the same audience that makes TV3, in which only the independentists are watched. That is why he said to him: "The model has to be changed. And it's no use for me to come here with all the TV clippings he doesn't like. I want to know, Mrs. Artadi, what you like, what your model is. I think you should have it. Not that I'm pointing out the TVs he doesn't like. Look, there are a lot of things I don't like, but I'm a politician because I have a model of my own, and that's the one I want to defend. Those are the words of change that I would like to hear from this new government, which marks the difference in these public media. Now, TV3 is true that it has had for the non-independenceists a black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black black Let us hope that Mr. Torra's new alliances with Mr. Sánchez will not now cause the blackout we had on TV3 to be held on Spanish Television, where you, for the first time, have taken away the majority parties to sit the independenceists on this public channel of all Spaniards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Again, it's the councillor's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.16.0	Thank you again, Congresswoman. It's my model is that of the corporation; it seemed to me that it was clear when I gave it that, by quantity of audience, by quality and plurality, it's our model. When the intervention ended, he said: "There are things to be improved, because we have an old law that is to be improved, it has to be adapted to the new situation, consensus is to be improved, and this was the work of the last legislature. And I agree very much: we need to improve funding, we need to approve the new programme contract, which was not able to deal with the attacks on the part of Minister Montoro through VAT. But this is our model; a model that has to be adapted, that has to be adapted to the new circumstances, also to the plurality that there is now of information sources and, before you make reference, each time have less impact, and it is true, have less impact because there is much more diversity. For the fact that it is repeated vagina, things do not turn into reality. You said and said in the first intervention... that you didn't give me time to comment on it, and I would love to make a point of it, just, quickly. I say again, all the will to work folds, if there are concrete proposals. You said it affected... I don't know what exact words you said, it affected coexistence, and, in fact, in the past you referred to TV3 as a media CDR. Well, it's hard for us to believe that you're actually going this way. Actually, the news we have about violence, about agitation, is very clear. Before yesterday, a Lledoners night that ended up at the hospital; I don't think that caused TV3. Or, on June 21st, a girl riding a motorcycle to Barcelona, carrying a stellate to the helmet, they wanted to throw it to the ground, because she was wearing a stellate, to the crit, when they tried to attack her, from "Live Spain, pussy! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. On June 18, Santa Maria d'Oló, two young men attacked at punches, who finish at the Hospital de Sant Joan de Deu de Manresa. Canet de Mar Platja, that attack a vie of eighty-two years, etcetera. I think that doesn't cause TV3; I think it would be quite a thrill to think that this is the consequence that TV3 exists. It seems to me that this is not the consequence of TV3, this is the consequence of the factism that we still have in our society; a factism that goes on in the streets with impunity and continues to violently and generate by society, because, while a mechanic, a teacher or a ball is led to justice, as this happens, what do we find? So from a case that we know a lot about because we've been living in the first person like Blanquerna's other people, that they're being convicted but that they haven't been through anything, or this very week, that we knew that the leader of Falange, that they detained him for hate crimes and possession of weapons without permission, and, more than that, repeat, they let him go free. The problem of violence is not TV3; the problem of violence is that the fascism remains unpunished and goes on the streets of our country without control. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. The next item on the agenda is questions with an oral answer to the Government. [[Ask the Government about the outsourcing of services that are the competence of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families]] [[310-00011/12]] The first question is about the outsourcing of the services that are the competence of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, and the formulation of the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.18.0	Yes, good morning, everyone. Good morning, Counselor. They are based on the two Sense Fiction documentaries, the two Desemparats programs, on TV3, and the report of the digital media Critic, and also on the analysis we have made of the expenditure assumptions for the programs of the Directorate General for Children and Adolescents, we find that there are some companies in the third sector that are profiting, that are acting as real entrepreneurs, with a lot of work, and that, in addition, are playing with the patience of many families. We also note that there is no control on the part of the Generality as to how these services are being managed and how they are being monitored and controlled by these services and their quality. Counselor, what do you think you're doing before this situation? And, please, we also ask you if you can explain to us what percentage of places directly manages the Generality, residential places of foster care, and what number of places or what percentage of places manage other entities or organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.19.0	To answer, has the word Lord Chakir El Homrani, Counsellor of Work, Social Afers and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.20.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. President... With regard to the contract that is done to the department and the contract that is done because of what we call contract with the entities of the third sector and all the social model that accompanies in this country and that has a very, very important wealth, it is a contract that we are reviewing its functioning, according to the entities, that they are also aware that we need to review this function, in order to promote the social contract and improve it. Around the elements of transparency and information, we are at your disposal in any request for information. And what we're working on, basically, is how we review the model and how we incorporate more elements of transparency and more elements that help boost the social economy of this country. We think that it is essential that, around people's services, we can work with a very powerful fabric that has this country around third-sector entities, that there is a lot of diversity, around cooperatives and social economy. Currently, now, in childhood entities, there has been almost one-sixteen types of entities that serve the department.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member, Sirvent, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.22.0	Yeah. Mr. Counsellor, we asked you about the percentage of seats that the Generalitat directly manages. We, according to the information we have, more than 80 per cent of residential places of protected childhood are managed by private entities or organizations. Talk about social economy when people are paying public money for flats and houses that work as children's homes that, at least, apply the market prices of the local shopkeeper and go to real estate that are of the same foundation without work, of social economy, that are managing this service, has no sense. We see how social educators don't cover and wear mesos de entarreriments, in this and other foundations. We also see how they relate to services such as, for example, out-of-school activities or medical services that do not enter public health for children or how they are privatized to services such as gossip and cooking. We also see that the foundation conglomerate of the Education Platform, of the private foundation Resilis and FASI have rejected more than 100_million euros during the stage of Mr. Ricard Calvo as Director General of DGAIA to manage centres of under eight years of age. I don't know if you know that Mr. Calvo was a founding partner of the three and he was a three-and-a-half manager of Resilis and also director of the Education Platform. I don't know if you know that while he gave all these awards, he was out of date...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.23.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.24.0	... – I ended up – I was out of work at this business conglomerate. Well... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.25.0	There's the word The Homrani Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.26.0	Thank you. In 2014, the European Parliament adopted Directive 2014/24, which, from 2015, started to apply to the Generality in open tendering and in competition and advertising. We can discuss the model, we can also discuss in what way that the response capacity we give our infants in emergency situations can give them. A reality, and it's a reality that I think is public and that I know everyone, is, for example, that we've gone from underage unaccompanied from around 400 to 2015, 700 to 2016, 1,700 to 2017, and this year we're going to over 3,000, and we need to be able to act with a point of agility. As far as I was concerned, there is an investigation that is carrying out the patronage of the foundations. About all the requests for information that have been made to the department, we bring them first and give them as much information as possible, because the most interested in transparency are us. Now, what I also think we need to take care of is a very, very important social and associated fabric...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.27.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.28.0	...and that he has made a great effort... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.29.0	The next question is... [[Ask the Government about tourism policy]] [[310-00015/12]] ... on tourism policy, and the formula Mrs. Elisenda Alamany, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.30.0	Thank you, President. Madam will advise, we are already in the summer and it is when, now, you see clearly what the tourism policy of this Government is in such a strategic sector that it moves 12_percent of national GDP. We ask ourselves whether this government will do the same tourism policy, which has led to precariousness, of previous governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.31.0	To answer, has the word Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, Conseller of Enterprise and Coneixement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.32.0	Thank you, President. Member, reality changes and the tourism sector also, and it evolves, and that is why we will not, we will not do the same policies, we will adapt to elements such as the new technologies, the changes in tourist destinations, but we will also do so by integrating a series of principles, which are the ones that inspired us in this plan that was commented on yesterday, the Tourism Plan and the Marketing Plan that we developed this year 2017 and that, briefly, we will also consult with all of you. And to illustrate some of the principles that inspire this plan, therefore, of entry, as you have indicated, this tourism sector that represents between 11 and 12 of our economic GDP also represents a 14_percent occupation in Catalonia; therefore, it is a sector to which we give all and all the value, neither the minimum nor the minimum. And, starting from this reality, we also understand that it must always be based on criteria of economic, social, cultural and environmental sustainability that we need to develop our tourism plan, in order to ensure a quality occupation and fair remuneration. That's what we're up against. We also want a territorial redistribution to be integrated, which we do not advocate, and I also said yesterday, because of this excessive concentration on the coast, in some areas of the coast, and in the city of Barcelona, because we have to take into account the diversity of the country and we have to respect it. We also want a model that when talking about benefits we stick to the ticket and not to the number of tourists who have come; where knowledge and innovation are also key elements. We also want the participation in the governance of these new models that we want to go to establish as well, therefore, taken into account. And, at the same time, it also creates synergies with other economic sectors; tourism is economic activity, but it is also very linked to other economic sectors. So, therefore, attentive to the effects of tourism, which have an economic outlook, but also considering the social, environmental, etcetera outlook, which he commented on, very soon they could know in detail what our tourism plan is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.33.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.34.0	Yeah. He talked about data. Last year, I think it was 19 million people who came to Catalonia to enjoy our country, our culture, our gastronomy, and I think it's a proud move, but I'm still worried about what this government's tourism policy is. And we'll give him some data, too. To begin with, basically, the tourism sector has been and is the kingdom of precariousness: 97 per cent of contracts are temporary, subcontractions arrive practically everywhere and they are under misery. An example is the Kellys, those people who clean hotel rooms and cover two and a half euros for each clean room. The second example, surely, would be the free bar of the touristic floors, which has done nothing more than to shoot the price of the loguers to the great cities of Catalonia, and, therefore, here, too, to put order in the uncontrollability of these touristic floors, which have only made great enterprises. And the third example, and to make a little bit of history, in 2013, the Government of the Generality doubled to the design of a speculative group..., which lowered the taxes of casinos from 55_per_cent to 10_per_cent; the touristic segell of the Government of the Generality is said to be Barcelona World. And this continues to feel that way – this was done to compete with Madrid d'Esperanza Aguirre –, continues that way and a Catalan worker currently pays more for his son than a casino for the benefits he got. And, therefore, it seems to us that this situation needs to change, that this government has to deal with an economic model that overcomes – which is what has done with many occasions – the exploitation of low-cost tourism with large quantities. We believe that this Government must work for a tourism of quality, which is based on the potentialities of our country, and, if we are admiral in Europe, therefore in countries with Holland, France, that make an ecological, family and cultural tourism. And it is time for the government to understand that citizenship also claims to open up our horizons in this sense, for a country ahead of us, and that it is not a destination, especially for many workers, of the sun and of the plagiarism. Therefore, we would be pleased, madame, to advise, that in this area we should be told that Catalonia's economy from now on will be strong, diverse and relaxed in the country; but above all that it is a tool of progress for the people, because Catalonia's tourism must be done not against the people, but in favour of the people. In short, we believe that there is no tourism model...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.35.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.36.0	...without being clear which Catalonia we want... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.37.0	I've got the word again, the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.38.0	I suppose you've listened to what I said and the principles I said to you, and I think that in many of them we agree. So, what I'm going to do now, or I'm going to take back aspects of labor contracts from... I just told you that we want a model of socially inclusive tourism, mediatedly; we've talked about governance; we've talked about skilled jobs and decent pay. I think that's exactly what I just explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.39.0	The next question to the government is about male violence. [[Ask the Government about male violence]] [[310-00014/12]] And the formula Mrs Beatriz Silva, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.40.0	Good morning, Counselor. On May 4, this Parliament made an institutional statement in relation to La Manada's ruling, in which it expressed its commitment to the feminist struggle to change the structures that perpetuate gender-based violence. Since then, several cases of sexual assault have occurred in Catalonia, which have led to the indignation of the citizenry. I would like to know what his Government's position on this issue is, and what measures it intends to take to combat macho violence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.41.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency, Ms. Artadi, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.42.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Actually, you're very right. It took a lot of media impact in the case of La Manada to which you referred, which was then made a statement from here, from Parliament. But, indeed, we have had cases – and recent cases – at our home of this chakra. We've got, for one band, the law that's been going on for years... that's been a pioneer, that we think it's still a big deal. We understand that work must be done and, in this sense, not only in the sexual violence between the couple, but in the family, in the work area, in the field of the oci, which is where we are having great problems. The first measure we have to take is to reconvene the National Commission for Coordinated Intervention against Masclist Violence, which is what the new strategic plan has to be approved, and from here to a national pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, Congresswoman Beatriz Silva has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.44.0	Yes; I thank you for your response and we welcome the fact that it is among your government plans to implement a Catalan pact against macho violence. But I would like to recall that since he took over the current government..., several agreements have been presented and none of them have been in relation to male-based violence. In fact, we heard a few days ago that the Councillor of the Interior stated that the verbena of Sant Joan had passed with normality and without notable incidents, despite the fact that there had been four complaints of violations, one of them to a minor. Asked by this parliamentary group, the Councillor apologized, which we appreciate, but his reaction does not suggest that this is a concern of the current Government or that he has assumed that demonstrations and movements in recent months indicate that this is a top-level concern. In December 2016, this Parliament adopted a motion urging the Government of the Generalitat to create and lead a pact on gender-based violence at the Catalan level that never took place. Since 2012, the budget for women's policies has been cut from €9,626,000 to around €7,500,000. My group wants to propose here today that a Catalan pact against macho violence should be deployed as soon as possible, but that it should also be accompanied by shock measures to tackle this problem; measures that are up to the level of those that are being deployed by the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez. There are communities like Valencia, Balearic Islands and five others that already have their own pacts working. We want Catalonia to have a feminist government too. If your Government has this plan on the table, I would like to know what priority it will give it and when it will become a reality. I would also like to know whether your Government appreciates that four allegations of sexual assault in one night may not be considered significant incidents. Because not only did the councillor say so, but the interior councillor also said it in her official Twitter account.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.45.0	To answer, you have the word "adviser" again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.46.0	Well, thank you. It seems to me... I also followed the intervention of the Councillor d'Interior, and I think when he referred... well, I say when he referred to no incidents, he referred to the topic of traffic, he referred to what is close to Sant Joan's setback as regards fires, etcetera. He himself explained these four sexual assaults, and therefore... and he himself, in fact, communicated it to the members of the government, with great... to warn us that this had happened precisely. Neither he nor we understand that this comes from normality. The national pact you were referring to... when I was at the committee last week I also talked about it and, therefore, I am glad that we agree. I think we all agree. We understand that it is to be transported through the National Commission of Coordinated Intervention against Male Violence, which will now be a year..., which, in fact, is not called and cannot be called, by obvious motius, to the month of generation. We understand that this is the place to drive, that there are not only departments, but also other administrations and civil society involved in the struggle against male violence. So we understand that it has to be there. We understand that, besides – and you have made reference to assumptions – you have to go connected and follow up, which is now not being done, of how many parties, of what the Generality's overall assumption..., because it would not only affect what would be appropriate to the ICD, but also of various departments of the Generality. And, therefore, we need to be able to do this. And in this march, and in the next few weeks, the better, we can also publish the question that's been done since the Department of the Interior...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.47.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.48.0	...of male violence, which must help us... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.49.0	The next question is about policies to prevent sexual assault. [[Ask the Government about policies to prevent sexual assault]] [[310-00012/12]] And the formula Mr. Francesc Viaplana, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.50.0	Thank you, President. A few days ago we knew that the defendants of La Manada, with a firm feeling, were set free. Meanwhile, Catalan political prisoners – some after new prison months – are now being transferred to Catalan prisons, in compliment, by the way, of the right they have to be close to their families. Some are rapists; others are social activists or politicians who allowed debates and society voted. It hurts to see those who have to share justice and protect you are the ones who believe the most uncertain and make you feel unprotected, because the victim, far from feeling comforted and being able to begin his recovery, see how his evil is on the street, free. With this feeling, the message is very clear: group rape of unprotected girls out of the box. In addition, this case reveals a hidden reality, such as drug sedation to commit sexual abuse. Fortunately, La Manada's case has involved a point of inflection; the women, the society in its conjunction, are making passes before we ever go back. In the last few months, great feminist struggles have been achieved, as in the case of the actresses who have raised the veil captivating the #MeToo campaign or the giant rau demonstrations of the world on March 8. And this state of opinion has meant that, before a feeling like that of La Manada..., it has been translated into great mobilization and indignation. Now, as policy makers, we don't just have to give support to mobilizations, but we have to contribute to the struggle of this social cast, we have to ensure that the victims are never more guilty and are not the protection center of all our actions, prioritizing prevention and taking into account how we later contribute to recovery, when it is, unfortunately, necessary. It must be borne in mind that Catalonia is the place where fewer orders for male violence are issued, in order to put a data that shows in the figures the defence. The specific resources allocated to the fight against masculinist rapes have been significantly reduced, and even one of the best professionals in the country attached to it has been lost. The Mossos are making a big pocket, but we need to prioritize the fight against masculinist violence again. Our society, counselor, is male and heteropatriarchal. This is why it is important that some of all departments are taking steps to correct this fact. Consequently, therefore, we congratulate you on the announcement made on this line the other day, at your appearance, on the creation of an integral plan against sexual assault. And we want to ask you what this plan will consist of and which other measures you think will take from your department to end the social terrorism of male rape. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.52.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. Already Constable Artadi has explained it and has gone more for the transversal plans of the Government, and for what it does to the strict and exclusive matter of Interior, yes the integral plan against sexual assault has various powers. I won't announce all of them, but yes, so, from the start, a protocol of action applicable to the private space of the oci, right? And that means, therefore, that we need to train, we need to work with the private agents of these spaces, because they are not old enough for security, but they are going one step further and already predict situations or possible situations of risk of sexual aggression. This area can also count and contemplate, therefore, audiovisual materials and support for young people in these areas; training in male violence and sexual assaults on all police in Catalonia – not only at the Mossos d'Esquadra, but also local police in this country –; monographic study and realization of awareness-raising days. And that would be a big deal. And to announce that on July 17 is already convened a commission that we have created new, a commission on sexual assaults, that joins the sector of the oci, joins the collections of victims, joins the municipalist entities, the unions; to understand us, all that is around which is the sector of the oci, of the security sector, concretely in this matter. And, in any case, as I see that I have a little time left, let it be clear that in this matter, not the Home Office but the Government in full will not doubt, in any case, that we are working preventively, but also that we are working in the event that, unfortunately, situations of sexual assaults occur; that we never spare any effort, we are working all folds to prevent any sexual assault. It is part of a sham and shame that we suffer as a society and that all folds – the government, deputies and society in general, weaves association, participates – we have to conjure ourselves to eliminate from our society episodes of sexual assault and male violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about maritime strategy]] [[310-00013/12]] The next question is about maritime strategy. And the formula Mònica Palacín, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.54.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Counselor Jordan, the uses they have in place in the marine environment are endangering their sustainability and survival of many species. United Nations has already positioned itself before the need to conserve and use marine resources in March and oceans in a sustainable manner. The 2012 European Commission, through the Communication on Growth Blau initiative, focused on developing the potential of March as growth and prosperity generators. More recently, the initiative for the sustainable development of the black economy has also been launched in the Western Mediterranean; an economy that gives work to Europe around 3_million_i_mig people and generates 500,000_million euros per year in volume of negotiations. In Catalonia, the middle maritime power of the Euro-Mediterranean area, the Government has approved the first Maritime Strategy. A tool of country that will allow to give coherence to our maritime action and that to put on the table the sustainable white economy as an economic motor, claims us as the maritime country that we are. The government action of this new legislature is given to the democratic mandate of which the government emerged from the polls of September 2015, which could not be completed as a result of the fatal application of 155. This is why it is twice important that this new government recovers and continues the work begun in the previous mandate, in order to dignify the work of the previous government and to recover the policies that have been lacking for eight years, thinking that it was the government that was affected and not who it really harmed, to all Catalan society and, in this case, to our natural environment and to our people in the Catalan maritime territory. The Generalitat Maritime Action Programme was approved in September 2016, under the mandate of Constellera Serret. Our thanks go to the first agricultural adviser, Ramaderia and Pesca for her work with the territories. The program involved, as a central result, what today is already raising this government: this maritime strategy. For all this, counsel, now that the Maritime Strategy of Catalonia has finally been adopted, what will be the implications that it will have for the maritime action of our country? Who are the areas of action that will mark the strategic agenda for the next few years? And what sectors will be asked and how will these and the city council participate and see in this process? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the Agriculture Advisor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.56.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Catalonia's Maritime Strategy has a horizon until 2030; in fact, it's a starting point, it's the starting point for a full country maritime policy, huh? A policy which, in essence, addresses the whole matter of the government's maritime action in all its spheres and which, to say the least, is admirable in a similar initiative which has led to the creation of no mass in Quebec. The objective, however... the objective, in short, the ultimate objective is to improve as the Catalan society, the whole Catalan society, the bulk of the Catalan society, is related to our sea. This is the defined objective of this maritime strategy with this objective in 2030. All in all, four great strategies have been designed for the entire finalization of the Strategic Platform, despite the fact that there is a multi-annual plan, from the year 2018 to the year 2021, with eighty-new lines of action, but which will allow me to excuse that in a twenty-first minute I cannot explain them - there. But yes, these four great axes. The first is sustainable development, integrated and harmonious, of the evil economy, respect, obviously, with the conjunction of the uses of the sea. The second, the resilient and fully functional marine ecosystems. The third great issue is the best quality of life in the city, since it also incorporates, and very important, because many times we do not forget, the whole field of reading and blessing linked to the sea's pleasure, which is very diverse. And, lastly, a quarter, which is the mark of governance, which is a very innovative mark, a mark that gives impetus to the strategy we have designed and, to put it this way, with a very advanced model based on participation and also on the empowerment of the different actors around, in fact, a co-governance board. Here the different actors join together, and that's why I think it's the key to success: the fishing sector, in this case, the Administration, the scientific world and also civil society. So, are we talking about being a republic? Talk about iron republic. And we did it in a republican way and with a fully horizontal focus. Here too we place the emphasis on this hortizonal democracy. And I look if the sector is innovative, and I finish, that on the 25th and 26th of September, in the mark of the high-level conference on sustainable fisheries that is celebrated in Malta, therefore, we will go with a Catalan fishing company to collect just one prize...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.57.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.58.0	...as the model of this co-management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.59.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the public workers of the Generalitat]] [[310-00018/12]] The next question is about the public workers of the Generalitat and is formulated by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.60.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, are you going to introduce any new developments in public management regarding the management that your predecessor, Mrs Borràs, established?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, has the word Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.62.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. It is precisely at these moments that we are drawing up the plan of government, which I hope we can present, therefore, very quickly and present the lines of action in committee. Of course, the fact that there is, for the first time, a consultancy of digital policies and that, moreover, it has been decided, in this consultancy, to add to it the whole field of public administration, will enable us, among other things, to move much further towards a digital administration, which is one of the objectives that we will have in this plan of government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.63.0	Thank you. Ask Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.64.0	I know you're very interested in the digital administration, but I was specifically asking you about those 167,000 public workers who serve 7_million Catalans. And I remind you that you have received an inheritance, and that that inheritance is, first, two payments from the years 2013 and 2014, that there are already resolutions of this Parliament that forced the previous government to pay and has not yet done so, and for example a 36_per_cent temporality, when the normal thing is that there is an 8_per_cent in an administration. Officials with such high job insecurity, public workers with such precarious work, are vulnerable workers – they are vulnerable workers – and we sometimes suspect that you already have such a high vulnerability and precarious rate. I was asking if I was going to follow Mrs Borràs' line, because embarrassing things happened in the previous legislature. Mr Lluís Llach said that ‘the working people will suffer and the previous government applauded these demonstrations. They asked for a party so that they would throw Mr.Artur Mas, Mrs. Borràs, for the officials to ask for a party. They put – their government, the previous government – the Mosses between the sword and the wall: either obeying illegal orders of a government or obeying the orders of the judges. Look, you have the opportunity today to recognize here that it is outrageous and intolerable what was done with public workers during the previous legislature. And we ask you, as a counselor, today to commit yourself to something very basic in democracy, which is not to pressure officials, to ensure a neutral working environment for officials. Do you feel that the 167,000 public workers enter public buildings with the yellow lace and all think like you? Is this what you think? Do you believe that this respects neutrality and a working environment for officials? And a second and third basic question: comply with Parliament's resolutions, pay what they owe and already call for civil servants' places to put an end to the precariousness they have, shamefully, in public employment. We ask you to work to improve the working conditions of civil servants, not to use them politically. And Citizens will do everything they can to avoid...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.65.0	Mr. Carrizosa, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.66.0	...that another legislature act more... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.67.0	I'll get back to the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.68.0	Thank you, President. And thank you, Congressman, for making one more point. In any case, tell him that this government and this councillor, in the first place, is concerned about public workers. He doesn't care about all the feelings. Don't worry because, since we came in, the first one we've done has been listening to who the repercussions have been on these 155 public workers, things that you say, we're still waiting for some word, some good word in this sense. I want to thank them, and I want to thank the Generality workers, precisely, so how they maintained the institution's dignity during these months of 155. To tell him also that one of the first things I have done as a counselor, today, precisely, has already been calling the General Bureau of Public Service, because it has already presupposed to the State and, therefore, this will allow us to address many of the questions that you raised – commitments, increased remuneration, etc. – precisely at this table, which is where things are to be done. And so, out of respect for the unions, the workers' representatives, so that's what this is going to do on July 20th, which is why I've called this civil service table. And, finally, I see that until now we have known that you were very concerned about the deep loops that were in this Parliament, and you are also very concerned about the deep loops that are in the street, and you are very concerned about the deep loops that we are carrying Members and people... [[Funnel veils]] Yes, they worry, yes, because some of them are assaulted and you don't reject it. [[Greetings.]] We'll see what they're worried about. So, well, for your peace of mind, I have to tell you that we don't have any complaints or complaints about the fact that you... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, we don't hear any complaints or complaints about what you're talking about, say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.69.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.70.0	...of the Generality's spaces or of the public workers who carry the ties. We don't know about any complaints, so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.71.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.72.0	[[...to tell him...]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.339.0	Quiet, and please. [[Ask the Government about the health model]] [[310-00019/12]] The next question is about the health model and the formula, Mr Jorge Soler, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.73.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. He will advise Vergés, in the short time that you have been in the council, there are two very surprising decisions. The first is to give the order to close hospital beds in the summer, practically two thousand five hundred retaliated beds. The second was to leave the empty chair of the Catalans to the interterritorial meeting of salvation. Will this be your way of abandoning the salvation of the Catalans, closing beds and emptying the fall of the Catalans in questions of salvation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.74.0	To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.75.0	No, Mr. Soler. Actually, the backups are there and, if you want, I can explain. And, in fact, it was very clear the agenda of the Inter-Territorial Council, to which the new minister was called on 28 June, which was to speak of a single theme, which was the universality of salvation, in which this Parliament was to pronounce with a majority consensus, with the support of all groups, the negative vote of the People's Party and its abstention, in favour of shielding the universality of salvation by law – shielding the universality of salvation by law. And I asked the minister that, in respect of this chamber and the Catalan society and its consensus, what was to be done from the Spanish State, and what we hoped to do from the Spanish State, is to withdraw the appeal to the Constitutional Court that had our law. And that, I believe, is why Members of this House will be very proud that, like the Councillor of Salut, you intend to defend the sovereignty of this House and of Catalan society. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.76.0	To answer that question, Mr. Soler has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.77.0	Yes, thank you, Counselor. I can see that this is why the beds have been closed. And I have to say to him: closing beds is not the solution, to reverse the shortcuts, not to keep them. In any case, with your answer, I believe that you too are acting as a counselor, and this implies going to inter-territorial meetings representing all Catalans. And precisely while you, that said, left the empty chair, to Congress, the congresswoman of Convergence, Nogueras, presented a good initiative for patients affected by esophageal athesis. Surprisingly, he asked to facilitate the diversions of malalts between communities. According to her, it shouldn't be difficult when we talk about people who are between life and death. And we gave him the reason and there we gave him the reason. It shouldn't be difficult, Counselor, but you're stopping it here. And it's important not to leave the fall empty, because you have to do a lot of things, starting to collect equal benefits, to guarantee the freedom of citizens to move freely between autonomous communities. He will advise to defend a health system that is not distinguished by the place of residence: that a hospital in Valladolid can be accessed by a hospital in Valladolid without having to be a displaced one; that a trempole can go with its health card to a hospital in Cadis, and obviously, and vice versa. Counselor, and go there with a common clinical history, which can access his X-rays, his latest electros, his history, his electronic receipt. And for this, she advises, that you did not leave the empty cadira of Catalans when it comes to such important questions as the common clinical history, a tape of the 21st century, a tape of modern societies that guarantee equality between all citizens. Counselor, do not hide hospital beds, go to meetings and posts for modernity. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.78.0	To answer, you have the word "adviser."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.79.0	President, Member of Parliament Jorge Soler, referring to the difference between autonomous communities and that patients from other communities want to come to Catalonia to be able to be operated and to be surgically intervened, to say that here, always, and to all falls and to all papers, bilaterally we will fight, like Catalonia, to say: ingegue the guarantee fund, pay the health cohesion fund, because Catalonia, by luck, with the health model we have, is attractive and a lot of people from other autonomous communities. It is 28_million euros that you give us the Spanish State for the attention of patients from other autonomous communities and, therefore, we will continue to claim them wherever you need them. And we will continue to work for the salvation of Catalans and Catalans. And that's why I said, the reinforcements are there, this counselor doesn't close the beds. Hospital centres – hospital centres – organise beds annually. You know – you know – that in the summer the surgical interventions are lowered and the beds are adapted to this. But this does not mean that if more beds fall, and for unscheduled interventions, there will be all the necessary beds and, if more than the scheduled centers fall, they will open. Therefore, that the whole country is calm, if more beds fall, open, as are reinforcements at the primary care centers, especially in coastal and tourist areas, with more professionals to be able to attend to this increase in demand in the summer months. The compromise is, from this department, the compromise is from the councillor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.80.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.81.0	...and all of society. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.82.0	The eighth question is about the external delegations of the Generalitat. [[Ask the Government about the external delegations of the Generalitat]] [[310-00020/12]] And the formula of Mr. Fernando de Páramo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.83.0	Thank you, good morning to everyone. Thank you, President. Mr Maragall, Councillor, we have known that your intentions are to open even more embassies, and that, moreover, the first action you have done has been to place a fugitive from justice. We want to know if you're going to continue to convert the embassies into fugitive placement agencies, and who's going to be the next fugitive you're going to place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.84.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Ernest Maragall, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.85.0	Miri, that you abuse the concept of ‘fleet from justice' does not give you the reason. There is no escape from justice – there is no escape from justice – with no responsibility. [[Greetings.]] Mrs Serret is a Catalan citizen who resides in Brussels with full freedom, with full freedom of movement, responsibility, capacity, and, of course, with full competence of professionalism, experience and personal value to exercise the function for which she has been appointed. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.86.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, has the word the Lord De Paramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.87.0	Mr Maragall, with all due respect, we prefer the criteria of the judges rather than the criteria of a counselor, in this case. And, yes, they are fugitives from justice. Look, all you're worried about is winning the story. You said it in a few statements a few days ago, that you worry about winning the story. That's why they set in motion those independent propaganda machines around the world that are the embassies. What happens is that the embassies have a cost, Mr Maragall, is that they are paid by all Spaniards and all Catalans. And we asked him for that information. And we talk about 600,000_euros, 1_million_euros, 632,000, 500,000, 1,151,000, ultimately millions of euros paid out of the pocket of all the Spaniards so that you put away fugitives from justice, and that you lie and use those embassies to speak ill of Spain, to rot from our country. And it's amazing, because it's the world backwards. You use the money of the Spaniards to have organisms that speak badly of the Spaniards. You are the revolutionaries who seek to liquidate the state through the agencies of the state. That's his revolution. That's right, paid for by everyone. If you want to have chiringuitos, which is legitimate; if you want to have chiringuitos to talk about the process, which is legitimate, pay for your pocket. It's that easy. Make a collection, which is given you good, make a collection and pay if you the embassies and the chiringuitos. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But don't pay it with all the Spanish money. Look, you have to admit that now they have it easy – they have it easy – they have the process's colloquium, which is Mr. Pedro Sánchez. And with Mr. Pedro Sánchez [[remorse of the voice]] They're gonna have it a lot easier, a lot, a lot easier. But I tell you one thing... – yes, that of normality, that of opening embassies and saying that nothing happens here; that of putting a fugitive from justice in embassies and saying that nothing happens here, Mr. Pedro Sánchez – but I warn you one thing, Mr. Maragall, and I say it to you with all institutional respect: with us you will not have it as easy as with Mr. Sánchez. We're not going to make it that easy for him, because he's going to have an opposition that's going to tell him to stop spending all the Spanish money on talking bad about Spain. Mr. Maragall, there's life beyond the yellow bow. And there are thousands and thousands of Catalans we want to remain Spanish, we want to remain European and, of course, we want to remain Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.88.0	I'll get back to the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.89.0	Yes, thank you, President. I insist, the concept of justice has escaped, isn't it, eh? It's not, absolutely, right. Sometimes, justice has been made available to you, as you know perfectly, and, surely, legal justice has so far given you all the reason, systematically, huh? (Applause.) Miri, we don't really talk about anybody, do we? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We will devote ourselves to speaking well of our country, to defending the interests of Catalan society, of Catalan citizens. Do you know what percentage of Catalan GDP corresponds to the trade surplus? More than 12_per_cent. That is to say, this means that Catalonia has a presence abroad, mainly in Europe but not only, very important. It is our obligation to accompany this presence and this reality, economic, cultural, professional. So there is a public service of explicit and specific interest for all these citizens, for all these entrepreneurs, for all these cultural representatives; that is, in all dimensions. And that's what we do with a scarce assumption, which I, Pere, Mr. Vice President, will try to increase. Do you know what the external action assumption of the Government of Catalonia is? Not above or at 0.1_per_cent; it is just at 0.1_per_cent of the generality's total assumption. Do you think that's what's worthy? Miri's presuppositions of autonomous communities, Miri's presuppositions of Bavaria, Miri's presuppositions of Quebec, Miri's presuppositions of any national, suprastate, national entity that is respectful of itself. And you'll see how we're still so far away. And that is why, indeed, I will want to open many more, some more, cautiously, with respect to the presuppositionary limitations that we have, but with the highest ambition of presence, representation and defence, yes, of the general interest of Catalans and Catalans. And we will do this in collaboration with all the European institutions, with all the multilateral institutions, with all the Spanish institutions we find on the road. Yes, we won't lock the door to anyone, Mr. Paramo, we won't lock the door to anyone. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.90.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about public refugee policies]] [[310-00016/12]] The next question is about public policies for the gathering of refugees, and the formula Mrs. Saloua Laouaji, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.91.0	Hello, good morning. My question is linked to a crisis of European, structural values, with a part of the world's population in extreme vulnerability. We would like to know, precisely, the forecast for the reception of young and non-accompanied refugees. What mechanism do you have in mind, Mr. Counselor, for your protection, welcomed and linguistic, social and cultural insertion? We ask this question in a precise way, as young people's unaccompanied policies are in a crisis linked to a deficit in the first attention, in the gathering with adequate guarantees and protection, and in the lack of legal competence and, sometimes, coordination with regard to the Spanish State, because the latter does not facilitate access to information, among other difficulties. We would also like to know what attention you have planned for refugee women, especially in the field of legal and psychological support, in view of the difficult reality that has come and the hardships that have passed. In fact, there is also a lack of gender perspective on mediation, because so far most mediators are men and do not take perspective when there is attention to a situation of violence. With regard to refugee families with young children, who would remain outside the specific programmes of the State for the care of asylum seekers, of resources, what residential resources had been provided for them. That said, and once, also, passed the first phase of the gathering through the media and rent-a-face bubble that was done with the topic of the ship and Open Arms, we congratulate all of you on the initiative, the rebuff and the rescue of people at risk. And we also welcome the cross-cutting work that has been done between the Secretary of Equality and the Secretary of Sport for the opening of the Blume Residence, of Esplugues. But as it is an eventual space for summer, we ask about what forecast we have at this level and for a permanent equipment once past August 31st. Let us hope that this punctual tension of a ship does not follow a deviation in order to lay down new solutions that are more durable and to deal effectively with the situation of thousands of people who have migrated for whom, in fact, there are many refugees among them. Because denials...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.92.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] To answer the question you have the word the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.93.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We are talking about a triple migration crisis: that of young and young people without family references, that of refugees and that of the southern border of the Spanish State; border, which is the border of the world where more people die. And we also have to remember this from time to time: it is the border of the world where more people live. Around this, in relation to young people and adolescents, two governments approved a contingency fund of 10 million euros that would allow us to create 418 new seats in the system. It's a very complex situation. We have gone from 377 young people in 2015; 1,700..., this year has been a prospect of exceeding three thousand. We also take advantage of this creation of places is to try to change the system, to vary some elements of the system. We've reinforced the whole side of educators and chauffeurs. Why? To see that in the center and in the first session these children are still educators. We work together with the Interior, but we think it is very important that the first report is not about identifying security and law enforcement forces, but about educators. And that's the things that go to a center and solve the reality of the WCO and the City of Justice that is a concern we have. For another band, this will mean that this year we will end up spending more than 70 million on these young people. For another gang, I'm talking about the refugee crisis and the migration crisis. Look, I think we can be very happy with the management around the Open Arms and the work that entities and administrations do in this country, and in a coordinated way; but busses arrive every day with a lot of people in this country. And, from the first week that I arrived at the council, the first I did was to call the Barcelona Assembly, the municipalist entities, the entities of the third sector, Red Cree and we are working in the opening of services to give response to this. But it cannot be joined without rights of refuge and rights of citizenship. These people arrive directly with an expulsion order, which means they are expelled from the system. That's what we're also claiming from the Spanish State. She's a disgrace. The gathering is like what we've done in the Aquarius, like what happened with Open Arms and not like what it's done on the southern coast of the Spanish State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.94.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about gender policies]] [[310-00017/12]] The next question to the Government is about gender policies, and the formula is Mrs Anna Geli, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.95.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Honorable Councillor Artadi, second and last Observers Igualtat de Genère 2008-2017, every year died of male rape every year, there was a small number of attentioned women after eight years in the Service d'Atencion e Informacion des hemnes a statu per aguest motiu. These are the numbers that we and our family have, it's ours, it's our mayors or it's our daughters and daughters. It's rape, it's abuse, and it's assault, and they don't understand class now. I will deliberately bind you to this herd: José Ángel Pregna Martínez, Alfonso Jesús Cabezuelo Traina, Ángel Boza Florido, Jesús Escudero Domínguez and Antonio Manuel Guerrero Escudero. It is deliberately easy for us to rebuff now and for five people to condemn them to sleep every net in their house and, worse still, to walk by their chariots; otherwise, you do not. To this end, I will be able to doubt a journey within the time of your Spanish judicial system. And he said that he sought all the instruments of what we had at his service to correct the masculinist and patriarchal social structures that still dominate our society and that forced journeys for us through this silence we all became accomplices to the social problem. A silence that squeals on me is denunciations and on me was a vote. Eth toag # Count it accumulating, in ten days, it's stories of a month of 2 million hemnas at the end of this sexual rape. So from this perspective of equality between omes and hemnes, it was justicia espanòla mos stofe. How can it be explained, if not, that it was the judgment of the Constitution that it was the law of equality that suspended twelve articles? Let's hear from the Republic, because we all need tools to minimize the current plague of gender, sex and wage abuse, for example – it's a 23 per cent monthly average wage; it's also a domestic sound or a sleeper. Counsel, they've been celibrating for ten years now the Law of Masclist Rape, before attacking tanben is the cause of gross rape and gender inequality. In a word, you ask: what instruments will eth Govèrn deploy in the field of gender policies, then perform and deploy will the Law of Equality? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.96.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Councillor of the Presidency responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.97.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Thanks also, again, to Congresswoman Silva, to Congressman Viaplana. I believe that today is also a demonstration in this session of control of the import we give it, of the recognition that this task we have to do among all, men, women, government, parliament, civil society, entities, etc. Certainly, we live in a patriarchal model; a model that has not helped in the advancement of women; a model that we must break. On March 8th, I've already made reference to you now too, we understand that it can be before and after. We understand that we need to be able to take advantage of this March 8th, this impulsive, this awareness to push forward with greater force what it is to have a fairer society, a more egalitarian society. Feather reference to the Tell me. I think that this also helped a lot of women, it helped us a lot, because we read many stories in which we felt reflected; we felt reflected on why, not only in the extremes of what you can go through, from violence, that you would have died in this country at the hands of a man to be a woman, but also the micro-violences, that come from all this politics..., policies of gender. Since the Català de los Dones Institute, but in collaboration, obviously, as it cannot be otherwise, with all the departments of the Generality, but above all with the 390 entities of women forming part of the National Council of the Dona, a participatory process has been developed to develop the Strategic Platform for Gender Equality Policies 2018-2022. The proposals have been collected, we already have them, we are doing a technical elaboration, then we have to go through the committee of experts to finish doing this strategic Pla. It has to include assumptions, which we had previously commented on, but also an assessment, through the Observers, through the Idescat, through the Ivàlua, of what impact these measures have. We spoke of transversality, yesterday the Health Counselor explained the impact, for example, of the Health Counselor. With the ICT theme we have a lot of work to do, together, also, with Conseller Chacón and Conseller El Homrani. The Administration has to be exemplary, we have to review whether it really includes quotas or not to finish the jump; we are making a board of equity training in public workers, and make reference, also, to the Constitutional Court. What we can't do because they want us not to, we have to work through the unions or we have to be able to take advantage of a contract guide that the government has to approve to assess who is being contracted, but also in grants. "Where the women are, we must also visualize them in the acts, in the councils, of those entities that we give them... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.98.0	Counselor, time has run out... [[Question to the President of the Generality on the treatment of the question of the referendum agreed at the scheduled meeting with the President of the Government of the State]] [[317-00008/12]] Let us now begin the questions of the President of the Generality. The first question was asked by Mr Xavier García Albiol, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.99.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra..., we are aware that the next day you have a meeting with Mr. Sánchez, President of the Central Government and has already stated that he wants to make an agreement to hold a referendum. A reference, you say, agreed with the central government. I would like to ask you a double question: the first one, will that be so? Will you go to Moncloa with this plantation? And second, if you do this and there is a refusal on the part of the President of the Spanish Government, you, as President of the Generality, what will you offer to the Catalan society?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.100.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer that, the president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.101.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, it's not so good, I'll go to Moncloa for a while, see the Spanish president too to set him up with the point of the political situation we find ourselves in. That is to say, as the people of Catalonia intend to culminate in the exercise of the right to self-determination that began with the self-determination referendum of October 1 and the political declaration of independence of October 27.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.102.0	To answer the question, has the word "Mr. García Albiol".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.103.0	Mr President, I will tell you with all sincerity, to me it seems a dare that, in a matter like this, you spoke on behalf of all the people of Catalonia. You can speak on behalf of the majority of Parliament, you can speak of the names of these two_million Catalans who vote for them, but you cannot speak on behalf of the entire Catalan society in this question, because, quite the contrary, we are more that part of the Catalan society than we agree that you or no one should put forward a reference to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain. We believe that it is urgent, once and for all, that the Government of Catalonia emerges from the loop in which it is installed with the independence process. But we are also aware that, at these times, you are on a door that, until now, you were not contemplating. Until now, you knew that it was literally impossible for a plantation such as you, directly or indirectly, as you have given us to hear, to plant it to the President of the Government, to have been planted with Mr. Mariano Rajoy. Now, with Mr. Sánchez..., they have been allowed to include in the order of the day the direct or indirect laying of the right to the celebration of this self-determination reference. We believe that this is a very worrying aspect. We would like to..., we would do him a prec; we would make him a petition, Mr President, and it is: pass the page, steps, as is fashionable at these times to say the screen. And since you're taking advantage of seeing the president of the central government, talk to him about the real problems that Catalans have, about those 800,000 Catalans who are in a list of expectations of sanitation; about those thousands of children in Catalonia who are going to be studying in barracks because their conditions do not allow them to study in buildings in conditions; that's the best they can do and the best they can for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.104.0	Congressman, time's up... [[Pause.]] To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.105.0	Thank you for your intervention. I think you're right, huh? ... in which you expose, it is to say that, effectively, until now, we have not given opportunity, his party had not given us the opportunity to go to Moncloa and to speak of everything and, in change, the Socialist Party, but it does give us this opportunity. And I value that, I value it very positively. So, it's a first step, it's a first step that I think society, in general, huh? The Catalan society, in general, and I think that the Spanish society, in general, also appreciates that, for the first time, the government of Catalonia and the government of Spain can talk about you; they can talk about everything. And today I am also pleased that this evening, so we will vote on a resolution in which we also urge all parliamentary groups to be able to dialogue and talk about everything. Because this is the first step, huh? It's the first step to be able to agree, that we can talk about everything, because if I'm already going to a meeting knowing that I can't talk about second things, well... from the inside, it's that I won't go, because it's impossible, isn't it? , that we get to the top of the negotiation, the dialog. I'm already insisting that in order to talk, you need two bands to sit on the same table, huh? And God's belief that few like Catalans have practiced the art of the covenant until extremely, truly, absolutely magnificent. So, listen, the first step is to find out where we are. And what we're going to ask President Sanchez is, precisely, for our band, explain to him why we think we're where we are. Why, why do we have deep ties, anyway, huh? I mean, why did we get to a self-determination referral? What happened to the King's speech on October 3rd? What happened then, in the declaration of independence policy and the application of Article 155? All this is what we will discuss, and surely Mr. Pedro Sánchez will propose his alternative to me, which I hope, therefore, will explain to me in full detail what is the proposal that the Socialists have, their project for Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.106.0	Thank you. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the issues to be raised at the scheduled meeting with the President of the Government of the State]] [[317-00011/12]] The following question is made by Mr Xavier Domènech, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.107.0	Good morning, Mr. President. It seems to me that today he will answer a lot about dilluns; indeed, dilluns, you and Mr. President Sanchez will start this path for the dial, as we have learned, without clippings, that it has been the magic word that has allowed the election of the direction of Spanish Television to be unlocked, that last week it seemed impossible and now it seems that it is. But in the set of statements and counter-declarations that he has made about this, and also in the press, what came out is that you, which will ask him will be three things: Francoism, historical memory, for which I understand; taken and right to self-determination. I'd like to know if that's the way it is, and I'd like to say, if the only things that you'll bring to the wallet, in this first meeting, are these three themes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.108.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.109.0	I carry the fears that I believe that, like the Government of Catalonia, I must bear. And also, this late we will adopt a resolution in Parliament that I think also gives the clues for where most of Parliament's independenceists want to focus this meeting. But it is obvious that I must raise three essential issues, in our opinion, to the President of the Spanish Government. And he probably planted yours, huh? And we're still talking about this... Constable Artadi and Minister Batet. Who are my fears? How we exercise and culminate in the process of independence. I mean, does the Government of the Spanish State have a proposal for us to know how we have just practiced and made this republic fully effective, or doesn't it? This is essential for our point of view. Therefore, I insist: where are we coming from? Why did we get here? And how do we exercise, the Catalans, our right to self-determination? Second point, the sovereignty of Parliament, of this Parliament. I will lay down the whole relationship of suspicious laws and replace it – to President Sánchez – to which I have committed, therefore, to raise this suspension, on many occasions, the Socialists voted in favour of it, and therefore, I understand that a left-wing government respects this conjunction, this package of social measures, it must be in favour. Third point, I'll tell him I'm open to the whole dialog. I've always said the same thing, I think one of the best conclusions of this meeting is that there was a second meeting of the Palau de la Généralita in September, huh? And that, therefore, this Roman dialect has no doubt, from the Catalan side, we will do everything possible because this dialect is maintained.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.110.0	Thank you, President. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.111.0	If Mr. Sánchez has a proposal as to how to complete the independence of Catalunya avisi'm, that will be a notice [[relays]] Impressive. That said, I am glad to know that they will bring the whole subject of the laws suspected for the Constitutional Court, because this is also representing the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia because, indeed, they were approved here. It is also to represent the sovereignty of the Catalan Parliament that the Government of the Generalitat develops the non-suspended part of these laws, which in many cases has not done... Now, I'm also worried – and I have to say – that..., we stay – because it's a theme that will be central to the debate of the future months – is there the theme of the own history? You had defended your own history, defended it as the state structure, plus, and seemed to have abandoned it completely in the debate on finance. It is one of the basic tools for making public policy in this country. And, for all we know, you... in the midst of many proclamations about everything you do and what you don't do, the financing debate has decided that the band and the argument, basically, is that as Mr. Pedro Sánchez has decided, failing to complete the update of the financing that had been made in 2014..., he has decided that in this legislature there will be no new funding, you have decided that you will respect... It is also curious to see people who have defended non-submission to the design of the Government of the State who now respect the fact that there will be no funding proposal from Catalonia, because Mr. Pedro Sánchez has decided not to talk to us. We know, too, that, in the case of the PSOE, they have also decided not to touch the labor reform because they assume that you do not want to talk about it either. This mutual respect is an absolutely impressive thing, at these times, between the two governments. But beyond that mutual respect, look, I, basically, just wanted to say one thing, counting on not being accused of making autonomy, that end up making the worst autonomy possible that is that of: "As we wait for a window of opportunity, we don't know when, we don't know how, we don't do absolutely nothing for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.112.0	Congressman... to answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.113.0	Thank you. Look, I have here the document you presented at the last meeting that President Puigdemont held with President Mariano Rajoy on the famous forty-six points, right? I will not go to the meeting with President Sánchez with these forty-six points, these forty-six points, that all are basically incompletions on the part of the Spanish State, or chronic deficiencies of which the Catalan society, therefore, by patenting the consequences, can be solved perfectly at another level, at a bilateral level, of the commissions that we have paid. That's where we have to keep the answers to all these problems. But it is that we go to the higher level, we go to the issue that is worrying in this country, that from eight years ago, it is the force on which the policy of this country is soft, which is from the right to the self-determination of Catalonia. This is the answer and I still don't know what Mr. Pedro Sánchez will tell me; I don't know. For now, I do know that you share the same foreign policy as the PP government, which I'm quite concerned about, but it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.114.0	President, he's running out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.115.0	...we only know some insights. See what you're telling me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.116.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generality about the strategy and objectives of the Government for the next few months]] [[317-00009/12]] ...the formula Mr. Miquel Iceta, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.117.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Many honourable President, it was precisely Xavier Domènech who asked me not to condition his relationship with President Pedro Sánchez in the previous control session, and therefore I will not ask him about the meeting of dilluns. However, I would like to begin by congratulating a decision of the Government of Catalonia, which was, precisely, to appoint its representatives to the Bilateral Commission, the Joint Commissions and the Commission for Infrastructures. And in this sense, yes, and applied and projected on these commissions, I would like to know if the Government has set a strategy or some work targets for the proper months.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.118.0	Thank you, Congressman. The president's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.119.0	I'm sorry, I'm always getting ahead of myself. Mr. Deputy, the government obviously has some objectives, but all these objectives, all our strategy, must know what position it is on the great issue it occupies at these moments..., and this is the central debate in Catalonia. I insist... I'm not going to do the elephant half-way again, but I insist that there's... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Huh? That's right. But we have to start trossing this elephant. And one way to do it in trossets, too, is that one part, we know how to bring it back, the debate, through these bilateral commissions. But you certainly wouldn't get along, would you? I, like the president of Catalonia, who once spoke of questions that is not the question that at these times, therefore, the Catalan society is about to know... What is the Socialist Party's project – PSOE version – on the right to the self-determination of Catalans?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.120.0	Ask Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.121.0	Yeah. Mr President, allow 'un petit clip publicitari: if you want to know my own, there is a book published very recently, The third way: bridges for the agreement, edit The Books of the Cataract, divided" eurites. [[Widow's remorse.]] But I was referring more specifically to what can be deployed from bilateral commissions. And in this sense I would not want to need those elements of institutional reform that can be pursued, but I do think it would be good for the Catalan society to see the great problems of the country clearly reflected. In these moments we still have a very important problem of attunement which is concentrated on long-term and youth-related events; we have some need to improve our ability to manage migration flows; we have the opportunity to strengthen our skills and skills in work inspection as a mechanism to bring about fraud that has occurred in the contract and that is seriously damaging the working rights of workers or those who want to access a work place; we have a topic that is pending, not just as far as the model is concerned – in which the Generality is competent in the matter of active employment policies, and we have some very serious problems of finance, not just as far as the model – in which we can coincide with the definition of the word. And that's why I used to encourage government action in this sense, thinking about mixed and bilateral commissions. And lastly, and on this return also of graces, I know that his position has been very, very important at the time of acceptance of a message that this late is to be seen, with a motion that compromises the presidency to establish mechanisms to reach agreement, to an internal consensus, that I think essential to advance...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.122.0	Mr. Iceta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.123.0	... at any point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.124.0	Thank you. Responsive again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.125.0	Thank you, President. Clip aditari versus clip aditari: I also published a book about the last hundred_metres, which related what I thought was how to approach the last hundred_metres of the process. I also recommend reading. In fact, I think it's still valid – I think it's still valid. I mean, when I'm talking about creating a moment, I think this book about the last hundred_metres continues to feel valid, I think we'll probably have to do something very similar. In any case, I was reminded of the companies – I didn't have them present – that actually last year they also appointed these presidents from the different bilateral commissions. The problem was that the PP government did not name its own and, therefore, was completely ineffective. We're willing to actually make this dialog possible, which is something we've repeated to all the members of the government, and I personally since the first moment I went out to the Faristol in the first investment speech: dialog, dialog, dialog, politics back to politics. Xavier Domènech commented: until we get to this first meeting? So, exactly, I don't know, we might see where we are, but we've talked about everything, and it seems to me that this is important already to get out of a certain ass-of-a-bag that we found ourselves in. And in the second meeting, which I want you to do to the Palau de la Generalitat, and President Sánchez seems to have an opportunity, so we'll have another opportunity to keep moving forward and to keep discussing. If all this is done with this policy of dialogue that you propose, and if all this is done with these bilateral commissions as well, I think we're starting...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.126.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.127.0	...to focus on a certain dial scener... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.128.0	Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the planned meeting with the President of the Government of the State, the right of self-determination and the withdrawal of charges against political prisoners for the prosecution]] [[317-00010/12]] The following question is asked by Mrs Anna Caula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.129.0	Good morning, President. Fifteen days later, we ask him again for the coming meeting of dilluns – we know that we are not very original – which he will share with President Sánchez. In the last few days we understand that there have been three very important facts that they have to see. In the first term, the meeting that you have said is prepared for the previous committee, with Councilwoman Artadi and Minister Batet. Good news: we don't want a courtesy meeting, but an authentic work meeting. The political situation in our home is years of being normalized. This is the background of the find of dilluns. Secondly, as you know, the PSOE finally agreed to go to the meeting to talk about everything, without any renunciations. In this sense, we believe it is essential that it is placed on the table, as one of the most important elements of the meeting, the right of self-determination of the people of Catalonia. Now, the dialog needs to be practiced, and it's going as far as it goes, with active listening. We know who so far has never won and continues to contaminate coexistence. Just remember the last statements of Sáenz de Santamaría, Cospedal, Married, Albert Rivera or Inés Arrimadas, but also Borrell. Aviat, however, we would find out if the rest of the PSOE will want to make an art of dialogue and negotiation. Ours, yes. Now, what we're asking from Esquerra is not just talking, but being able to skip this stage as soon as possible, and move on to the negotiation phase. For all that, we would be pleased if you could explain to us where we are, President, in all this matter, and who are the prospects for the meeting. And finally, the petition: yesterday we went to the prisons of Lledoners and Puig de los Basses, where there are already the Catalan political prisoners and the prisons, even though we still lack some. Approximation – we have repeated it many times – is not a concession, it is not political gesture, it is a legal obligation, a right. We ask you, President, to ask the Spanish Government to order the Prosecutor's Office to withdraw all charges against Catalan political prisoners immediately, some false charges, some charges invented through a fabricated report. There was no rebellion, because there was never violence. There's no misappropriation, because there's no payment. There's so much injustice, so much revenge. The Spanish government should be aware, moreover, that repression will not solve anything. I may have a certain sentence in the short term, but it's a long and long term that still gives us more and more reason. Only one question is asked: what have they achieved with repression? In short, to begin with, right to self-determination and removal of charges to Catalan political prisoners. Coratge, President. It's not a simple task, but the future of this country can only be decided by its people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.130.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.131.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. I agree with everything you said, and I especially like this final sentence. We have always said that only the people of Catalonia can decide their future. And we're in this and we're in this, aren't we? I think I have already clarified or tried to clarify a little our starting point, which is what we are going to put to the President of the Spanish Government, focused on the right to self-determination, the sovereignty of Parliament, you suspect. I had forgotten, indeed, that there is a whole package that we are very concerned about, that it is this glimpse of the fascism that we are seeing in our streets, and of the Francoism that we are seeing in all the streets of Spain, with advertising tanks where there is the figure of the dictator, which seems to us absolutely aberrant; we have not just heard it. And I think this is a point where... that Spanish Republicans who will always have the support of the Government of Catalonia, because it is intolerable; any show of fascism is intolerable, any show of frankness. As Mr. Borrell said, who said the other day, he says – and these are some kind of strange statements to hear –: "Let's go campaign to prevent the Catalans from raising the question of Spain as a Francoist revival. And he said it the same day that the title of transmission of the ducat of Franco was granted, with which there is an authentic contradiction that I think has to be addressed, and has to be addressed already. It is that Catalan independence has re-emerged all of Europe..., that it remains focused on what is happening in Spain and that effectively here there is still franchising on the street, there have been fascist outbreaks, and there is an intolerable democratic regression to any of the levels. In any case, the fears are clear. We, too... obviously, I must ask President Sánchez about the situation of political prisoners and exiles. That's why we're in this fight that we're actually in. I will also insist that political prisoners are not a change of heart. It seems to me that it is also very important for us to be present, because we consider that his commitment to prison is absolutely unfair. In fact, I always set the same example: I have embraced myself in freedom with counselors who are in exile and in change I have to hug a prison with advisors who are hired. So, who has a problem...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.132.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.133.0	...you are the justice of Spain, in the justice of Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.134.0	Thank you. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the planned meeting with the President of the Government of the State and the incidents at the Catalonia America Council and the repression of the Government of the State against Catalonia]] [[317-00012/12]] The following question is asked by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.135.0	Thank you very much, President of Parliament. Very Honourable Mr. Torra, well, we will also ask you about the expectations, the longings and the hopes that you have retreated from the meeting of dilluns, now that the word "dialeg seems to be very fashionable, that is written and pronounced rau and at all times. We're celebrating that there are people who talk about dialogue. Actually, we've always claimed it. He claimed President Puigdemont on the same October 1st, the day of extreme violence by the Spanish State against Catalans and Catalans. Also the complaint after a speech that endorsed the repression of '' to them of the 3rd of October. We have always called for a dialogue, from day one, from the moment that the same Jordi Turull or Marta Rovira were born at the Congress of Deputies to claim a reference for Catalonia. We've always asked for a dialog. So, until today, and despite a change of government, we see little dialogue and much to maintain repression. I don't know if Mr. Iceta's book already mentioned that on the third road there could be political prisoners in Catalonia and exiles, such as President Puigdemont, such as Councillor Comín, Meritxell Serret, Lluís Puig, Clara Ponsatí, Anna Gabriel, Marta Rovira, such as political prisoners Mr. Oriol Junqueras, Mr. Raül Romeva, Mr. Jordi Turull, Mr. Josep Rull, Mr. Joaquim Forn, Mr. Jordi Sànchez, Mr. Cuixart, Mr. President Forcadell or the Lower Dolors. We'll always remember them every day here at this control session. And this third way, I don't know..., may be these senseless million dollar finances that we see being imposed; that they are holding activists on behalf of the Spanish State, in Girona, to paint "Llibertat, Puigdemont ; that the economic intervention of the Generalitat is maintained ; that they are kept decrees, like the law of the flight of enterprises, to facilitate and encourage the flight of enterprises; or that the repression is also maintained at the international level, when crossing the borders, with defamations. We have seen these days as Catalonia at the Smithsonian, a cultural festival so important in the United States..., we saw how the ambassador tried to advertise and lie in this sense. And Minister Borrell himself said that he demanded that the ambassadors act like Mr. Morenes with independence. This minister we saw who was also claiming this from the consulate in Stuttgart. What's his capture around this visit before this repression, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.136.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.137.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Actually, we're all talking about dialing, and now we'll need to see, at this meeting, whether dialing is just words or dialing is done and concrete proposals are made about the table. We are bringing concrete proposals to the table. And we are waiting to see, on the part of the Socialist Party, who will be their answers or who will be their alternatives. Because this is about..., a dialog that is converted into a negotiation, so it will depend on that: which are the two projects that are on the table and, therefore, what are the possibilities to move forward. I would also like to say that we may find ourselves unable to go further than finding out where we are. In any case, I would already appreciate it positively, because we are going through a situation of..., we are starting to unfreeze a situation that seems to me that the Catalan society and the Spanish society are demanding of us. Look, I'm going to visit the first Scotch week, which you know a little bit about, to negotiate, because they had the opportunity, in a peaceful, civilized, reasonable, democratic way, to agree with the government of the United Kingdom and the Scottish government to launch a binding referendum and that all parties will accept peacefully. Can anyone imagine that the British police entered the Scottish electoral colleges to stun Scottish citizens who voted freely? Can anyone imagine that Scottish politicians are in prison or exile for organizing a referendum, the referendum they organized? Can anyone imagine that the Queen of England has never made the speech that the King of Spain made on October 3rd? Why do Catalans have to resign to not having some standards of respect, plurality, democracy, like other European citizens? Are we less European than the Scots? Is it that we have fewer rights than the Scots? So let's wait for President Sanchez, so the same answer that President Cameron gave when they went to propose it and when they were negotiating, so how the Scots exercise their right of self-determination. It's just that we're not making things up. We simply want Catalans to have the same solutions, the same proposals that other Europeans have had. It's exactly that point, isn't it? And therefore, I do not think we can go any further than other European citizens have been able to enjoy with complete peace, peace and democracy, which is how things are settled in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.138.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the defence of the interests of non-independence Catalans at the scheduled meeting with the President of the Government of the State]] [[317-00007/12]] The next question, the formula inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.139.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Torra, we have already talked about Monday's meeting, but I am going to ask you a very concrete and very easy question. Would you mind explaining to the non-independence Catalans how you intend to defend your interests at the next meeting with Mr Sánchez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.140.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.141.0	I will explain to you that, actually, at this time, I think that as much as you and I share that there is a theme for Catalan society, there is a political problem, that it is as Catalans exercise their right of self-determination. It affects you, the non-independenceists, as well as us, the independenceists, because this is a theme that brings years mobilising a majority of Catalan society. You too, an important part of Catalan society, have mobilized against it. So, this is the issue that is now the central theme of the country, or so, it would be absolutely... And precisely, because we are as interested in you as we are in having an answer to this issue, I was going to put the right of Catalonia's self-determination to President Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.142.0	To answer, you have the word, again, Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.143.0	The concern of Catalans is unemployment, corruption and job insecurity. Get out of your process bubble! [[Greetings.]] They live in a big bubble of a yellow loop. Don't you realize that when you can talk about everything, you only talk about the same thing, about the monotheme, Mr. Torra? He's obsessed! Catalans are interested in many more things. You don't want or can represent Catalans. How will he do that, if he does not even consider us Catalans who are not independentists, with his xenophobic and supremacist articles? To defend all Catalans, all of them, Mr Torra, because it is true that we are divided, thanks to you, it would be to talk about financing, it would talk about public services, it would talk about infrastructure, it would talk about dependence, it would talk about Rodalies, that the other day your spokesman said that, man, how are you going to go to Mr Sánchez to talk about Rodalies, something that affects hundreds of thousands of Catalans every day to go to work. No, no, You're going to charge Mr. Sanchez the mortgage, because Sanchez owes you the presidency of the government. And you will also be able to go high, because you know that you will be able to continue doing the barbarities you want and that you will find a Mr Sánchez who looks elsewhere and who says to you: "Yes, yes; come, Mr Torra; here you have your mortgage. Why? Because you open political bars for fugitives from justice, with everyone's money. They clean the dome of Mossos, while covering up the espionage to the non-independentists. You continue to exclude millions of Catalans with symbols that do not represent everyone. And today they are going to reaffirm themselves in the CUP motion on illegality and confrontation, again! , in independence. What a talent for dialogue! How normal, Mr. Iceta and Mr. Sánchez! And you, yesterday, face prisons as if you were, not the president of the Generalitat, but the president of a CoR, of a separatist command. Do you not realize that it is absurd, when, moreover, you yourself have the management and control of those prisons, Mr. Torra? Sánchez should not be confused in his meeting, because dialogue and negotiation with you is not dialogue and negotiation with Catalonia, but with separatism. But above all, Mr Torra, you do not get confused, because your illegal breakup plan does not have a weak Sánchez government that owes you the presidency, no, it has in front of more than half Catalonia and a consolidated democracy, of the twenty-first century, of the European Union, which is called Spain. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.144.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.145.0	No, I admit that I do live in my candy, but at least it's a candy a little more calm, there's not so many crits, it's a much nicer candy. Yes, yes, no, I assure you so. [[Greetings.]] I insist, I'll keep talking, because I think it's the issue that worries me. [[remorse of the voice]] to the Catalan society and that we need... if you'll let me finish... [[Pause.]] Perfect. Yeah? Are you all right? [[Pause.]] Perfect. No, it's just that her candy is a candy a little cry. So, to me, if you'll let me finish... I'll keep talking about the right of self-determination, because I think it's a topic that interests both independent Catalans and non-independent Catalans, huh? I went yesterday to see our fellow prisoners, I insist, politicians, honorable, democrats, huh? , prisoners. And I went there on two conditions: in the condition of president of Catalonia and in the condition of maximum representative of the State to Catalonia, which I would like to stop being and hope to stop being as soon as possible. [[remorse of the voice]] Because that means we're in an effective republic. It's not a worry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.146.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.147.0	And if you wanted to humiliate me, you said, "Home, if you already have them in Catalan prisons... ; surely; surely that was his intention, wasn't it? – so you know you're not humiliating me, huh? , who knows that there are Catalan prisoners, indeed, but Spanish legislation applies to them. And you know what we want to change? This Spanish legislation, this unjust Spanish justice. That's why we want the Catalan Republic, because we only take our prisoners with the Republic, huh? [[Greetings.]] And I hope, therefore, to have the opportunity, when I have gathered it, to explain it to all of you as it has been, which is the Socialist Party's proposal to our demands, which is its alternative, when I also hope to know one day, so what is the alternative that Ciutadans has for Catalonia's right of self-determination. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.148.0	Thank you, President. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia in support of the Gypsy people]] [[401-00003/12]] Once the control session is over, we will proceed to read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia in support of the Gypsy people, which has been signed by all parliamentary groups and sub-groups. To read it – and ask for silence, please – I give the word to the second secretary of the Bureau, Mr. David Pérez, who will read this statement. Mr. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.149.0	Thank you, President. Lacho dives. « Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia in support of the Gypsy people. On June 18, 2018, Matteo Salvini, Minister of the Interior of the Italian Government, declared his intention to set up a census of the Gypsy population in Italy with the aim of expelling the Gypsies in an "irregular" situation, and justified it with difficult defamations of economic, educational and social character to the Gypsy people. These statements are in addition to those of other international leaders, who, even in plenary session in the European Parliament, with the motto of the International Day of the Gypsy People, stated that there should be an international day to "victims of the problems caused by Gypsies". These positions violate the European standard mark in terms of equality and non-discrimination, such as the Lisbon Treaty, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union or Council Directive 2000/43/EC of 29 June 2000 on the application of the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, and also omit the European mark of national strategies for the inclusion of the Roma community in each Member State. The Catalonian Parliament cannot maintain the institutional silence before these discriminatory attacks against the Gypsy people, which fuel and reinforce a stereotyped and negative image of Gypsies and Gypsies and incite citizenry to rebuff, neglect and hate respect for the Gypsy people. The Gypsy people are a more European and Catalonian people, the largest minority on the continent, who have suffered a constant repression along its history. In this sense, the commitment of the Parliament of Catalonia has been clear and unequivocal at the length of the years, with the adoption of various motions and resolutions, the creation of the intergroup of the Gypsy people or impulse from the Government of the Comprehensive Gypsy People's Platform 2017-2020, with the aim of achieving great advances in this cultural recognition and in the social and economic equipping of the Gypsy people in our country. For all this, the Parliament of Catalonia expresses its rejection of anti-Gyptanist declarations and policies, a specific form of racism that can be fought institutionally and socially. Thus, it expresses its full support for the Gypsy people and for the mobilizations called before the discriminatory attacks that have been and continue to be rejected. At the length of its history, Catalonia has characterized itself as a land of collide, diverse and multicultural. For this reason, the Parliament of Catalonia calls on Catalan society to combat social anti-gitimism and to add to its efforts to work for coexistence and equality in Europe. Palau del Parlament, July 5, 2018. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.150.0	Thank you, Members of Parliament. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the health model]] [[302-00001/12]] We're still on the order of the day. And the fourteen points is the motion following the government's inquiry into the health model; a motion presented for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. I, to expose her, has the word Mr Jorge Soler. As always, I take advantage of it to ask you that if you have to go out, you do it quickly and quietly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.151.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, we have before us the first motion of this legislature, a health motion. And now I was commenting to the very honorable president that I would start with him, not talking about his book, he asked us to leave for another moment, even though there are interesting fears, huh? , an analysis of the report in which he uses the base of his literary structure – he insists on this – and surprise, then, spin it, right? When one Member asks another why one part of the chapter is missing... but you told the President, as I said before I went out, well, he just needed to explain, right? What they wanted to do after a hundred meters and, obviously, therefore, was forgotten, in that essay, which they used to use as a beacon. And I say he started with the president because this young man starts when Mrs. Arrimadas, at the address of the very honorable president, made him two very sensile questions. He said to him: « Mr President, you... – well, at that time you were not « Mr President –, « Mr Torra, you, therefore, will you want to recover the OPRs from the professionals? Is he going to pay back what you give the health workers? And another, according to the question, as simple as the first, was: "What will you do to reverse and improve the waiting lists? As you know, he did not answer; I recovered these questions the other day with the counselor, nor did he answer me, and, as soc insistent and persistent, so I return here to the Faristol and continue with this subject. And to continue, I want to bring another person here, I think very interesting, Dr. Sisó, president of the Camfic. Before yesterday he made some interesting statements to the radio force; I think that everyone who wants to improve the health system should listen to them, and I think that the president should do it to have arguments for, the very time that Mrs. Arrimadas asks him a question, so also have health facts. And I end up with one of the reflections that Mr. Sisó is making on the radio, he said: "Professionals need good news. And precisely this young man has this intention, to bring good news to the professionals, because we come from a detailed health system, where the first action of the Government has been to detail more: 2,500 beds closed, we have closed consultations, emergency closed, under enough closed and detailed, all told, a detailed structure. And, therefore, we understand that it is necessary to return to the workers who surround them. Indeed, we are aware that much more needs to be done. Yesterday we saw how you, Counselor, once again denied reality, the most obvious things. He explained to us how an exception is a rule: there is also a waiting list to access the primary meth of attention; this is common. And, after feeling it to the question, so, look, if you don't know how to get better results than other communities, I insist: go to interterritorial meetings and talk to your companies, surely that could get better results. And upstairs the estuary. And for this reason too, because new substitutes are being used to avoid col·lapse. Counselor Comín, in an inquiry and a motion like this, did not fix it; you inherit it. I said: "Shut up beds to enter the patients; some tank them. Well, we think we need to get involved in salvation, because the professionals – and they listen, I insist, the interview with Dr. Sisó – are full of chips on the stage. Call substitutes for you to come out of the job with dignity. There's plenty of detail. And what about the waiting list? So, look, everyone is not well aware, that there's a huge list of waiting; that it's not normal for a patient who suffers from trigo-schematic pain six months to get an MRI, and that when he's down and he's still following the process, he goes to his meth and I send him to the pain clinic and gives him a year of waiting. That's not normal, this patient's not eligible. We do not accept that there are patients at the calaixos, amagats, without programming, waiting for a trick, the famous trick: « We will trick you. Look, the citizenry has a right to know when she's going to visit her, because transparency is the best action for anyone who doesn't store anything. And I honestly believe that some of them store a lot. In short, President, Members and Members of Parliament and a very honourable councillor, we have a great opportunity here today, it is the first moment of this legislature because the workers can get back 100 % of the OPR, because the centres in the summer are still open, because we are going to hire replacements again and because, once in a while, there is transparency from the waiting list and there are no more patients left to the fall. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.152.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.153.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr Soler, for bringing a motion on the subject of health to the plenary. Allow me, however, to tell him that he is a harmless, insipid and painless young man. If what is needed to improve the health system are replacements for the summer, paying the DPOs to the cent_per_cent and transparency to the waiting lists, as at least it is a simplification of what is the big problem or the thick of a big system, and therefore of an important complexity, of what is the health system. Are these three measures that you have proposed? Yeah, shut up, and so we'll vote for it. Is that how we fix the system? No, no, Therefore, let'repeat' him: innocent, insipid and painless. I think that if they wanted to set themselves up better to improve the system, then they should have put forward some precise planning proposal respecting how we resolve this lack of professionals that we have throughout the system; respect how we redesign the system because we reinforce what is the gateway and what is more effective for the salvation of the citizenry, which is primary and public salvation. You should have, perhaps, raised something that respects how global transparency works in the system or the contracting system, as we reverse the mercantilization of this system... Well, I didn't want to make a new motion and, therefore, I only put two items in it, willing to add some of these elements of background that I thought were missing from this motion. One, on the waiting lists. Your plant in a point, therefore, more transparency and vision of genera, much needed – much needed – in the data of the waiting lists. Obviously we agree, but it seems like a little bit of light if we don't add something else, and this is one of the points that we have made to the motion and that has been accepted and, therefore, will be voted on today, again – because we have already voted for it in this Parliament and we have approved it – that what we need is to reverse that order of 2015 that carried the maximum time guarantees for surgical interventions, to make a new order that does not only recover the maximum time guarantees for certain surgical interventions, but also for the visit to a specialist, medical evidence or primary care. And that, while we do not have this new order, as at least the department makes it complete those reference times that there is to the order of 2015, which are not being completed, as the same deputy Soler, therefore, denounced in his inquiry in the later Ple. The second point was to incorporate a subject that makes great consensus in this Parliament, which was also discussed this morning at the control session of the Government, which also makes consensus in our country, and which I believe that in this case we are also talking about an essential element to improve the system at the present time, and it is the need to regain universal access to salvation, for everyone, as basic right, humane, and unconditional. We made a statement in this sense, it could not be incorporated, therefore, because, again, it was clear that we do not share this same concept of basic right, human, without conditions, to access to salvation. You, Citizens, want the people who live here but who come from other countries and who, for an unjust law, foreign law, restrictive, do not have papers, for these conditions we do not consider them citizens, citizens, with basic human rights that must be guaranteed for our systems and public services. You want us to lay conditions because you only access some of these people's services. Evidently, this, let me say, is more of the same as the speech of the People's Party that made that Royal decree 16/2012, that Rajoy government that with this very argumentary, or very seemingly, justified not everyone has universal access to salvation to our country. This was a key point for us; he explained it last week at the Councillor's appearance to the Health Commission. For us, the main objectives, the axes that will link our proposals in the field of salvation in this legislature will be equity: social equity, territorial equity and gender equity. And equity is empty, it's an empty word if you don't understand that the main cause of injustice is income and it's the social class. I, obviously, talking about equity policies is talking, therefore, about left-wing policies, it's talking about progressive policies. And I go back to the iniquitous: this is a painless, insipid, innocuous young man, of those who pretend not to be left-handed, but not to show that they are straight. Acceptable points, those of your young man, but you have zero will of transformation, Mr. Soler. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.154.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, of Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.155.0	President, to speak from the escho... – we have two minutes and a half; let's go for work. First of all, to explain our position with regard to the motion presented for Ciutadans, but we wanted to make a consideration, some preliminary considerations. The motion is referred to as a health model, and we think that the motion is not being discussed as a health model; or, to put it first, as far as the content proposed is concerned, neither in the original nor in the transactions, it actually modifies a health model. The CUP - Cry Constituent we say last week to the Health Commission: the Catalan health model is characteristic for private companies that go to manage public, public services managed in private spaces and public spaces that are used for private health enterprises. And, unfortunately, the later decades have transformed this, the Catalan health system, into confusion of interests, into a model of rotating doors, into models that facilitate corruption, and in the transfer of inputs or public resources to private interests. To value it in a very quick way, both our reviews as the transactional text. The first of the accords. From Ciutadans it is a reference or a reference to urgent planning in the summer and coastal areas; in fact, the original text is a reference to tourist areas. From the CUP - Creed They still don't know why. Obviously, there is an overload on the summer stage, but this would come to whitewash the problems of public health, because it is not a problem that has a natural conjunctural nature, but it is an absolutely structural problem. Second element. They started with a proposal to pay the DPOs and they ended up with such a generic issue that collective bargaining can treat the DPO. So that may be very good, but we don't have to plant it in this house, the Parliament of Catalonia, they will already do it for the representatives. And even today we don't know if what is being asked is that it's paid or just that it's negotiated to pay or not to pay, that it could be two different outcomes. Third contained. It is very well that we have the lists of hope or, rather, the data of the lists of hope for this breakdown by sex, as it appears in the writing; but having knowledge of the reality I believe that we have it as far as we are concerned, we already know who is the reality of the lists of hope. What we need are clear policies that end with waiting lists. And the fourth or fourth of the agreements that we might have raised more doubts, and we'll explain why. Obviously, we are talking about going to terms, but we do not think that these terms will be the maximum in a potential modification. Therefore, since the CUP - Cry They constitute what we consider is that we have to do a much deeper action. Here's the situation, for sure...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.156.0	Ending vagi, Mr. Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.157.0	...the Cat Salut – and I ended up, Mr. Vice President – but we think it shouldn't be the Cat Salut, but the ICS. And if we don't set up the Cat Salut, but the Siscat, we've denounced it many times, we can't keep three lists of waiters at public centers for class questions: the one to which those who are able to pay a guarantee, those who come for each other, a little...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.158.0	Ahabi, Mr. Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.159.0	... – and now I'm finished – and that one, the real one, the actual one, that we kick back or we have to pay back public health, that we are those we don't have any other type of insurance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.160.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, in order to position itself in relation to this point of the order of the day, has the word, for the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the lady Assumption Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.161.0	Thank you, President – or Vice President. Before we get into the matter, even though it is not usual to follow the sectoral themes for television, now it is possible that our political prisoners, those we have in the Lledoners prison or those we have in Puig de les Basse, can follow this parliamentary session. Therefore, if you see us, a very strong hug, which I hope I can make physically quick, and you have the certainty that we will return home. [[Greetings.]] And, going into the matter, I could almost sit down, Mr Soler, because many Members of Parliament who preceded me have kept the first part of my intervention, because, certainly, the motion spoke of a health model, and strictly did not speak of it. But I'll do the job, because when you talk about the three points of your young lady, we want to understand that when you were talking only about the summer supply in primary school and in hospital, you wanted to talk about accessibility. Or when you, in the second place, were talking about the DPOs, we understand that you wanted to refer to professional salaries. And in the third point, when he was talking about waiting lists and transparency, we understand that what he wanted was to know all the data, in a transparent way, about the health system. Therefore, three minutes if this is his model of salvation and the party you represent. But as she entered each of the three points, the councilwoman advanced the summer reinforcements to the control session. Encany has increased, the summer reinforcements; 83_percent of the reinforcements go precisely to the primary and, above all, to the coastal areas, which are certainly the most touristic, where more will have 410 professionals more in the primary, than the total of 481 professionals, and this supposes an increment, respect to 2015, of 180 professionals. As in the hospital we also wanted to talk about opening and closing beds, I would ask you, from this Faristol, to start deleting this concept of opening and closing beds, because beds are neither opened nor tanked, but they are and are being used or not used, according to the use that is to be given, especially in the interventions that are programmed. But in any case, this year there will be a mid-bed availability of 90,1_per_cent, too, with a much higher percentage of eight points compared to the previous year. And also speaking of the number of professionals, so also the increase is a 43 and a half percent respect also that of the past year. And you don't refer to it, but I'll explain it to you: the Medical Emergencies Service is also increasing, it wants the 31,000 hours of more services, the advanced life support service and the basic life support service. According to point 2, you were talking about the DPOs, and I understand that you, like us, know that this is not the competence of the Government of the Generality, because it is a matter that certainly focuses on collective bargaining and, when it is debated in the ICS world, this is on the table, at the sectoral sanitation table, and now, at these times, there is, therefore, the second Agreement on the working conditions of the 2006 ICS staff, which makes a precise reference to how these variable remunerations are paid. And that when you go to the Siscat world, so here is in application the first convenient collection of work of the hospitals of Aguts, of the hospitals of primary, socio-sanitary and mental health concerted with the CatSalut, that there is also a specific distance that explains how to deal with these payments of this variable remuneration also in the world of the Siscat. And it's true – and so we've done the puzzle – that there will be a meeting of these negotiating tables in this area and in this debate and that, therefore, before the end of the year, there will be a precise meeting of these negotiating tables in which it will begin to put a thread to the needle to draw some concreteness on the variable remuneration of the DPOs. And for what you do at point 3, you were talking about transparency, and it's certainly a concern – it was already in the last legislature, it was also in this beginning of the legislature – to improve system management and primary care. But transparency is not only good for the management but also for improving the quality in this health care, which we believe is still excellent, and above all in the aspect that you were talking about, which is of the waiting lists. And, therefore, we also appreciate that you've accepted this. And for what you do – and to finish – at the last item that you accept, in addition, from Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. In her intervention yesterday, if I do not recall correctly, she answered an inquiry from the Socialist Group, which also spoke of this aspect, the Councilwoman already talked about reviewing reference times for surgical procedures and consultations with specialists, especially from the clinical perspective, and with the participation not only of clinicians but also of experts and users or patients who are affected by all this. And for this reason, as we did last year's legislature, and in the hope of this new review, we at this last point would abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.162.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then again, to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Lluís Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.163.0	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me keep a record, too, and on behalf of Junts for Catalonia, as did Mrs Laïlla's fellow Member, for people who were deputies and who are in prison and for people who are certainly in exile. In politics, there must be dialogue, there must be a precise task of political seduction, and it is obvious that the politicization of justice or the judicialization of politics is absolutely negative and pernicious. And, therefore, I wanted to leave that fact on the table at this time. For another band, there is a question that affects very directly the salvation, and unlike other spokespersons, who negatively qualify the motion and, in change, will vote practically in favour of this in an absolutely acritic way, we positively value the weighted amount of the deputy Soler. Salvation should be one of the strategic elements of a government that would need to find consensus in this Parliament with the majority or practically all political forces. We want Parliament to follow, precisely, where the doubts are raised. And it has already become clear that, certainly, Catalonia's health model has a consensus from a point of view, above all, I insist, strategic, advanced and consolidated strength. Obviously, it is the Parliament where we need to do better, and the proposal made by the Deputy of Ciutadans is to do better to fall concretely and to fall conjuncturally. Home, we do understand that there are certain areas of the country that need..., « xoc plans may not be the proper word, but they do need, for basic questions of population increase, increase of means and increase of personnel. And on this scale, it was said, I will not enter the data, but there is certainly an increase in respect for other years. Respect the DPOs. Certainly, it has also manifested itself, surely it is not the right space, the Parliament, to define and define who are these better ones that can be done for what it does to the DPOs. But obviously, as they have economic consequences from a presuppositional point of view, it is obvious that in the sectoral months corresponding to the best that can be done in this area and that then there is a translation at the presuppositional level. Because the one who does not accept the staff working above all in public areas – not only in the case of salvation, but in other strategic areas of the public sector – is that it does not complement expectations from a theoretical point of view, which is: we will do a lot of things and we will do many better, and then the presuppositional translation of these things sometimes has not just arrived. And, therefore, it is much better that it coincides interest and willingness better with the presuppositional statement. And, therefore, to opposition groups I also say that sometimes I come here to explain to Parliament that we will do a lot of things and that we will do many better and that this will have some very good consequences for the citizenry..., these better have only perpetuation or consolidation or clear definition in the assumptions. Therefore, they also require responsibility in the elaboration of the next assumptions. It is not enough to stand against certain policies if, in the end, when the assumptions are to be voted on – which, certainly, in some parts can even vote on certain sections of assumptions in a concrete way –......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And the other question, and important: transparency, transparency in all spheres, and especially... and much linked to equity, which has also been said, from a gender point of view, from a territorial point of view and from a social point of view. We need to improve equity in salvation, but we need to achieve something else, that in Catalonia, unlike other parts of the Spanish State, also fem, that is that we defend, defend and have no doubt about defending public access and free salvation for everyone, for absolutely everyone. This is a principle I understand that absolutely irrevocable both from a political point of view and from a social point of view. Therefore, we would certainly vote in favour of point 1, because the shock plan is necessary, because there is an increase in population and because there is a need to resolve it. And this reason, obviously, did not intend to question the system – I understand, Mr Soler, nor to question it –... because this system certainly has characteristics that the very defendable fan, especially, among other things, and ultimately, for the work that the professionals of this sector do. But, for another band, too, from a social point of view, this is a system that no one puts total reviews on its layout. And, therefore, from here on in Parliament, we will help, with the collaboration of the Government and the Councillor, to improve this system of health which is important, above all, for the whole of the citizenry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.164.0	Thank you, Mr. Guinó. Then, to fix her position, has the word, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the lady Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.165.0	Thank you. The Socialist Group has not submitted any papers to this House, and in the background – in the background and in the form – it shares the transactions that have been made and that have been made by Mr Soler, and, therefore, we share the text that is presented. Deia, I think that one of the interventions that preceded me, on which it is one of the first motions – also said Deputy Soler – that are presented in plenary. I want to remind you that Motion 2/XI, from the previous legislature, was also a motion on sanitation. Because it's obvious that it's not just a strategic issue, Mr. Guinó said, but it's a matter of concern to people, huh? Because we are not talking about the salvation of a country but about the salvation of the citizens of that country. Because we actually put the system... that we put at the center of the system is the person. And that's why I don't think we should ever forget each other. We're talking, too, and he's been talking here about universalization. And the truth is, I think we all share it, because we voted here for the Universalization Law. I already told the Councilwoman: I was pleased to see her in the interterritorial council defending the position of the Parliament of Catalonia, that she was a defense and that she was a defense in favour of universalization by many groups and that, therefore, she knew that she had the support of many of us to be there. The motion – which, as we have said, we will support –, well, it speaks of three very concrete aspects; it can speak of many others, but at least three aspects that worry and worry at this time. It is also true – that I also gave it yesterday to the presentation of our inquiry – that the generality of the Councillor's presentations, therefore, makes it possible for us in the motions to make certain things concrete. He's worried about the strengthening of his mind as he's always worried, and he's worried more about the retailing, and so, how he's been lying. Because there's something I'm worried about about this young man because he's talking about coastal areas and reinforcement. And we also speak of a lot of inequities, which I have heard in the interventions that preceded me. Well, then, there are also many territorial inequities in the summer reinforcement. And, therefore, if it is already small, because I would like to remember that it is only growing with professional dissension compared to last year and to give more priority, obviously, to coastal areas, it is obvious that the interior will be very thin; go on, they will practically remain exactly the same. So you're going to have to go to the car cover. Lleida's professionals told us a few days ago that her lack of beds, resources and staff, and resources in general, defined her position as being a burden on her history. And I think that here we should also bear in mind that when we do summer reinforcements we think of many areas of the territory because it doesn't just go all the way to the coast. And if you delete services, it's clear, because they're suppressed. And, Mrs. Laïlla, it's a bed tank like it's a plant tank, and it's the term used. You know that, and so do I. They're tanking beds. And this year, 1,285 will stand, and, possibly, if we add them to the weight of the already closed, then we are in the number that is already said. But he was talking to her about the removal of servants. So, look, you should just go to the door of the Prat de la Riba CUP, of Lleida, that there's a magnificent sign, a CUP, a primary emergency center, that says they'll be serving again to five and that, besides, the rest of the hours, no, and that, besides, there will be a few days that will be locked. Official paper, Generalitat de Catalunya. You're less of a waiter. And I think that's a little something we should have. To go through with it. There's the subject of the rest of the young lady. Very much in agreement with the DPOs. And it's true, it's a collective negotiation, but what's true is that we have to work on the salaries and the discomfort of the professionals. The Catalan Society of Family Medicine gave the other day that 68.3 manifested a high precariousness in its place of work. And that's important. But I would like to refer to the last point, which is that of the waiting list and that of the recovery with Moció's slogan 2/2011, where is the guarantee time and the reference time, and today we also say so. And I was surprised by the intervention of Mr. Aragones, I'm sorry, and I'm addressing you directly, because I was talking about the fact that the dates don't come true. Clearly, we cannot say the guarantee time, which must be in every intervention and surgical procedure. But somehow we do want to make it clear that when we talk about reference it's indicated and when we talk about warranty time it's about right demand. And in this sense it is in which we defend the motion that we brought to this plenary at the beginning of last parliamentary term, the question that we made yesterday and the content of the question that Mrs Marta Ribas presented in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To finish this turn, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party, Mrs. Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.167.0	Thank you very much. Briefly. We will vote in favour of the motion. The problem is that they usually repeat every summer the confinement of hospital beds, that's why the young lady, about the management of the services that the Catalans get. And, therefore, we also believe that emergency services are collapsing. The waiting lists, which are today the main problem, require a management effort but above all a resource effort. And of resources there are, the problem is to place them in the right places. We have felt in this House how they want to reopen the Generality's embassies. Perhaps when we talk about resources for waiting lists or hospital beds, the councilwoman would do well to know who are the priorities of Catalans and who are the urgent needs of the public services in Catalonia; surely in the first place there would be sanitation and not those propaganda cells from the world, which certainly do not serve anything. Finally, we call for the transformation of reference time for guaranteed time as the maximum expression of compromise with people. With all this, we give support to the young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.168.0	Thank you, Mrs. Levy. To pronounce on the papers, finally has the word the proposed deputy, Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.169.0	Well, thank you so much, again. Well, now I was thinking, listening to the interventions: "If in this young man I have said that what we want is more money in embassies, that we have said that what we want is more millions in TV3 or that I have said here that what we want is more millions and more money in mourning, I am sure that many of you have not told me that I am inconcrete, or that we do not have a health model, or that we do not have, well, a strategic model. I think it's pretty simple. Does this government want to pay the workers or does it not want to? This government wants to bet to have summer substitutes, because it is when there are especially problems – also at other times obviously of the year –, or not? Or does this government want health transparency or not? So, it's much simpler. And you tell me we're talking about the Ciutadans model. I love it; I mean, if instead of giving five minutes for a young man, you let us, so we'd be delighted. In this case, they are advances. So let's go ahead trading, so, with Congresswoman Laïlla a few points. The first is what we accepted because we agreed, it improved our writing. The second, we wanted to stay a concrete date and, in my case, and that is not a threat, I'll go back, I'll go back to making sure, after the summer, that what you promise here is complete. And, obviously, I will do the same with the lack of transparency, which is notoriety, of the waiting list. Congresswoman, you said this was painless, insipid, harmless. Miri, for me, harmless is not to pay; to pay me, Congresswoman Ribas, to pay me, I say that it is not painless, anaesthetic. You're talking about this being insipid. For me, becoming substitutes is getting salt to the system, necessary, by the way, for the homeostatic balance of the body. And it's not harmless, the waiting list, if we stay there, save lives. So I think it's clearly different. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, I am pleased that the first health minister, even though with an interesting debate that began with the president, may be interested in resolving these issues. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.170.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. We shall proceed to the vote. Is there a separate request for a vote? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.171.0	We would call for a separate vote on point 4, which is the additional item.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.172.0	Okay. Can you vote from 1 to 3 together and 4 separately? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So, let's start the vote with the points from '1 to 3: 1, 2 and 3. The vote begins. These points – 1, 2 and 3 of this motion – have been approved by 125 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. We're voting a quarter point now. The vote begins. This was approved by 62 votes in favour, against and 68 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the reconciliation of the vast differences in the lives of families with infants between zero and three years of age]] [[302-0002/12]] Let's move on to the next young man, who is the next young man to ask the government about reconciling the differences in the lives of families with zero- and three-year-olds. [[remorse of the voice]] – Silence, please – presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.173.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, MPs, MPs, advisors, advisors, public to accompany us. The Generalitat carries four years devoting zero_euros to the schools of Bressol. Money for your political syringuites, to bribe your friends, money for your embassies, so there's always a lot of money, huh? The house is big. Now, for the bressol schools they haven't found any money in four years. And since the schools are to be paid for, the money that the Generalita does not put them must be put together and the families. What are the consequences of this leave of the governments of converging and republicans? So, on the one hand, justice has already told them that they have to pay their debts together; and on the other hand, many families have not been able to bring their children, their daughters to school in Bressol and one of the family members has had to stop working to get rid of the scoundrel. And we know that normally when one of the family members stops working this is the woman. We work for policies of reconciliation of work and family life, and also for equality between men and women, while the governments of Republicans and convergents, with their zero-euro policies on child education, have radically opposed these policies of reconciliation and equality between men and women. The truth is that when they talk a lot about being a republic, I would say: what does that mean to being a republic? Because it turns out that Mr. Torra goes down for Germany and says he's making a republic. The fan sports and says: "This is making republic. They must think the Nordic countries don't do sports. Okay. Now I am clear what it means to be a republic: what it means to be a republic is to dedicate zero_euros to the schools in Bressol. On the other hand, according to numerous studies, education from zero to three years is very important for the subsequent school success. In fact, Mr. Bargalló recognized it yesterday. What I don't understand is how they can recognize this reality and at the same time dedicate zero_euros to education from zero to three years. This first education is especially important for creatures of disadvantaged economic backgrounds and, precisely, it is the least likely to access schools in Brazil for an economic issue and also many times because of ignorance of their families of the importance of this first education. You, in these four years of zero euros at school in Bressol, have managed to have a society that is less just, less equal and less cohesive. Because international studies when they talk about cohesion in teaching do not talk about linguistic immersion, as you want us to believe, what they talk about is the quality of the system, fairness in the system and equal opportunities. If a scoundrel can go to school because their parents can pay for it and others can't, because they don't have money, they're making us have a less just, less equal and less cohesive Catalonia. Today we present a young man with two great aims: on one side, equality between all children, and on the other side, reconciliation of work and family life. That's why we ask the Government of the Generality to set aside the necessary parties so that education from zero to three years is universal and free. And we also ask for an increase in seats because all families who want to take their children to school can do so. Today, Mr. Torra has told us that the most important thing to Catalans is self-determination. Okay. What we care about is all these families who are left without a public square here in Catalonia. I'd like you to talk to these families about what matters most if you don't have a public place for your child or a self-determination reference. We also ask you to make a plan to substantially increase the number of students who can access this education of disadvantaged backgrounds. And we cannot forget the working conditions of social educators: we ask for educational pairs and we ask, also, more auxiliaries and vetlers. As a highly feminized profession, we are also working for equality between men and women. We believe that these presuppositional parties are not an expense: they are an inversion. We are investing in a fairer, more egalitarian and more cohesive society. In short, we are investing in a happier society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.174.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, to defend the papers presented, it's the turn of the groups. In the first place, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. It's Mrs. Esther Niubo's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.175.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, Ciutadans brings us this motion on conciliation and the truth is that, from the Socialist Group, therefore, we are missing a great deal of measures that could actually help to facilitate conciliation, and that, in any case, I will comment on later. But in this proposal they have been limited in education to the first childhood, which is very relevant, it is not we who will remain important at this stage of education, but not so much for reconciliation, that certainly also, but for the impact that it has on the development of infants, on the success of education in more advanced ages or even in equity, in the sense of reducing the inequalities of origin, to say the least. But, as we say, we have a much broader conception than conciliation should be. And, first of all, we want to make it clear that, as the teacher Marta Mata said, that it is..., well, one of the drivers of pedagogical renewal, also referring to our party, schools in Bressol or schools in general must not be a parking lot of children, but that, in some way, conciliation will not be reached as much by extending or extending school hours, whether lectual or non-lectual, but, above all, by darkening or flexifying working hours, business hours, also seeking complicity, pushing agreements between social agents, economics to apply specific measures of the hourly reform through collective bargaining, or also avoiding sterile face-to-faceisms in certain sectors. And with this I am not saying that school hours are not important, absolutely, they are; but, in any case, they must be decided taking into account the educational interest, the interest of children and not so much the interest of the labour market or the economic model. And, therefore, we cannot share any of its last points, above all that makes reference to generalizing this expansion of the opening hours and closing of the schools, because we do not understand why we have to extend these school times of the youngest. Is there a pedagogical report that advises me for the interest of the infant or even for the sake of education? We're surprised they're planting foreign hours, aren't we? , Exterior Hours in a Child Education Context. One thing is that we can talk, therefore, about the educational time beyond the lectual time, to guarantee the right to the educational, even the equal opportunities of access in this field, and, finally, that we talk about how we concretely do this, how we finance it and who finances it. But that's not what you guys are planting. On the other hand, we can't agree to the later point, we propose to sign agree where there is concentration of companies. For the PSC, the zero-three model or the zero-sis model went much further than a worker's service: it is an educational public service, a pillar of the welfare state and, therefore, a fundamental for the child that the government, effectively, should guarantee to all, universally, effectively, according to demographics, with the need for schooling, but therefore without subjecting it to the will or not of a particular company. Because often the access of children from socially disadvantaged families or with fewer resources to these public schools offers, precisely, to their peers, that they are sometimes in the dark, opportunities to form, to find work. And, therefore, to his young man they expressed an approach that we did not just like. Another topic we have found curious is the subject of offering free English classes with Nadius teachers. We don't really understand what you have to see with conciliation. And second, why do they have to be nadius? Why could a person who has studied angled philology not be able to impart this teaching? And that did seem like a populist measure that wasn't well-founded. But I'm not saying that we don't have to work to improve the access of children from families with fewer resources to the learning of a third language, so much to basic education, surely strengthening the endowment of professionals with skills of a third language; promoting teacher training; facilitating access to these extra-curricular activities or extra-curricular status, and expanding places to official language schools, reducing taxes. All of this, the Socialist Group and Unites for Progress have indeed tabled a proposal, which is about to be debated, where we will put measures in this direction. But, however, on the concrete subject of the Bressol schools, of their financing, here we agree, we understand that it is necessary to move from the words to the facts and that the Government of the Generality has to recover the co-responsibility in this financing: the 1,800_euro space and years granted with the assemblies before the 2019-2020 course. They want you to be like that. We should see how the government also guarantees the sustainability of these schools, as it is the Administration that is competent, that has exclusive competence. We would like to see restored the parties destined for the promotion and functioning of children's homes, which have not been returned to the assemblies since 2012. And to push – obviously, also, according to the offer map, there are, therefore – an increase in public places, foresees more endowments so that we can talk about the model of children's home effectively included or how to improve the access of children from disadvantaged families to zero-three education. Certainly, counselor, as is the case here, the Government of the Generality, with a new strategy to prioritise heavy risk shippers before the rest, has made the next 2018-2019 course do not finance the congresses for children. We're getting complaints from Tarragona. And that, then, can't be. But, in short, I do want to thank Mrs. Sierra for her willingness to come to terms, which was accepted by Nshagin. And announce that my group will vote in favour of points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, and we will abstain in the behind-the-scenes, therefore, for which I was already commenting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.176.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party, it's Mrs. Andrea Levy's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.177.0	The People's Parliamentary Group supports this motion and we have tabled an additional amendment to the text that has been subsumed with another from the Socialist Party and that we appreciate the goodwill of the proposing group in its acceptance. We believe in the reconciliation between personal and professional life. We believe that this is, of course, one of the best tools to work for that equal opportunity. Undoubtedly, conciliation is important, and so does the European Commission, which states that the first years of life are those in which the educational impact is most effective and has the greatest influence on the development of children. So it is not only a measure that favors the reconciliation of personal and working life, but also a measure that favors the personal development of children and provides the basis for the education of the future. That is why it is important to focus the shot on the universality and freeness of education also at this stage from zero to three years. But the truth is that, today, in Catalonia, access to a public square from zero to three years is a race of obstacles, where every screen that is passed takes a bonus, which will be those who in the end determine whether or not the child is entitled to a public square of education from zero to three years, taking into account that the main objective is education, but also giving possibility to this reconciliation of personal life with working life, if we also take into account that the challenge of birth, the demographic challenge, must be one of the ones that most focuses the concern of politicians at the moment. Education must be universal and free, not a prize for the sum of merits or, as is the case, family adversities in order to obtain what must be a right. That is why we are adhering to this motion and thus, in addition, we demand it from the Government of the Generalitat, to continue on this path of supporting education from zero to three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.178.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Bernat Sole.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.179.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, counselor... Mrs. Sierra, I am very clear, I have been very clear for a long time that you and I have to find a way together or, in any case, we have to share a way; we did so in the past legislature, in the education committee, and we will continue to do so in this committee. I would like to see that on this path we find dialogue and agreement and perhaps consensus, but what I see is that on this first occasion, so this has not been possible and has not accepted any of the papers that our group has presented. The one that I say to him... – well, a little thought – the one that I say to him is that this path will be full of surprises. The surprises you offer us? A first surprise, when he summons us in this Ple for an inquiry carried by the title "The reconciliation of family life, addressed to Councillor El Homrani, and he ends up talking about education, he ends up talking to us from zero to three years. Therefore, this would be the first surprise we have at these times. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me, Mrs. Sierra, will you let me finish? - in the end? You ask us an inquiry addressed to Councillor El Homrani, and the entire content of the inquiry and motion is exclusively from zero to three years. So let's not start this way too well. In fact, what you plant is a small business of services, a company of services to those families who have to reconcile family life. We, the stage from zero to three years, conceive it as an educational stage, an educational stage where we have to train our future infants in our country. I've made an effort to review your election program, as long as I do. And you talk about "recovering the middle class and working class, when you talk about conciliation. Or is it that the class that isn't average isn't working? But it's that, in addition, in your election program, you talk to us – and that's right, that's what we share – that, in those stages of families where there are children, she is the woman who often has the most precarious job. And do you know what you're offering us? In the following words: "Extensive access to pre-school education is not only an advantage for working mothers, who want to reconcile a personal and professional life. Pardon me, conciliation must not only be of working women; conciliation must be of the whole family, of men and women, and of us, from this group, from the Republican Group, from the group I represent, we are not and will never agree to reproduce the schemes of the past that have taken us to the moment where we are at these times. Let's talk about the young man. You speak of universal gratuity. Well, as you know, most of the Bressol schools at this time are municipally owned; therefore, this Parliament has many powers, this Government has many powers, but today the management of municipally-owned taxes is the exclusive competence of an assembly. In any case, before I make this proposal, I talk to the assemblies, I talk to the municipal authorities, I talk to their mayors and their governors; well, maybe the show isn't very representative. I don't know if you and the rest of the groups who are going to support this gratuity have made the impression that the school from zero to three years is free. It is 800_million euros – 800_million euros. Provide some solution to contribute these 800_million euros. Stop building institutes and schools? Will we stop hiring that teacher we need for the education system today? Are we no longer providing the resources needed to implement the inclusive decree? I'm bringing solutions. They don't toast to the sun. If today they approve these first five points, concretely that of gratuity, they come out and explain it, explain that this will not be possible to implement. It will not be possible because, in addition, we find ourselves with extended assumptions, and with extended assumptions this is not possible. Well, the other surprise: you're asking us for a correspondent from the Generality that the counselor has already announced the other day; therefore, it seems to me that they don't. For what he does to our group, and in short, there are a lot of things to say, but we don't agree with a few children converted into service companies, we don't agree to reproduce obsolete models where the woman is the only one who has to reconcile life...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.180.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.181.0	...doesn't have populist proposals and do have a few children who are part of our country's educational model, based on equity and equal opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.182.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of Mrs Montserrat Macià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.183.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, guests, today I have the honour, as a Member of Parliament for the Lands of Lleida, of making my first intervention from this Faristol, and I can only begin by denouncing the exceptionality that has long since been bulging our day-to-day with the harsh repression against our advisers and advisers – Lluís Puig, Quim Forn, Josep Rull, Dolors Bassa, Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva, Jordi Turull – of the leader of the civic and cultural institution Jordi Cuixart, of President Forcadell, Marta Rovira, of Anna Gabriel, of our president of the parliamentary group, Jordi Sánchez, and of the very honorable President Carles Puigdemont. A repression that sought to scare the democratic exercise of giving voice and vote to the citizenry. And I'm starting that way because it's clear that we won't normalize the unjust pain of his secret, of the prison, even though he's near home, or exile, and we won't do it while everyone and every one of them isn't at home. As a parliamentary group and from this our pain, we have the objective of building a new country, based on the founding values of Europe, democratic values, justice, freedom and solidarity, and actions that are going on, of social cohesion, universal access, of welfare, of respect for diversity; a country, in short, of republican values, because we are here to make a better country for our daughters and our children, a country that is closer and with a more ethical look. And, for this new country that we want, the young man in our care must help build a quality citizenry, with committed and critical citizens. We fully agree with the objective of seeking strategies that improve reconciliation in families from zero to three years, but we choose different lives for what it does on the way to seek to achieve this end. We want to be effective, because reconciliation is understood as a caring tool to improve the life of our citizens and to build a more equitable and equal society. We have a much broader and more transversal view of conciliation, which is far from zero to three years. The reconciliation is understood as the tool that promotes equal opportunities between men and women and that allows to break glass sutures and participation imbalances. A vision, ours, which is intimately linked to the rationalization of time in all the facets of our life and, therefore, links with the hourly reform, a reform that seeks a new culture of time. At the same time, we believe that it is necessary to ensure the effectiveness of providing educational opportunities for all children, from the earliest age, and placing special emphasis on what they are in the most vulnerable environment or with difficulties in learning. In conciliation, as the Nordic countries have shown us, there is a key role to play in ensuring public places for children from zero to three years, and in this they will find us, because, for us, attention to the care of people is a priority. But this objective is directly proportional to the availability of economic resources. And in this sense it is necessary to remember the hardship of the fiscal deficit that we have long been denouncing, the famous 15,000_million euros per year, which in redons mean 40_million diaries that go to the state government and do not return to Catalonia. That is why one of our great demands is the presuppositional stability that allows us to program and execute those social policies that must make us a more modern and competitive society. For us it is a priority that can be actively re-participated in the co-responsibility with the municipalities of the financing of places from zero to three years, and also participate..., with the will of the manifest service of the joints, that it should put it in value, and the necessary planning to cover the territorial imbalances, that it can increase the public places and is able to tend to the non-mandatory universality of the first childhood. And for us, it is important to focus on those families who are more vulnerable. But, of course, to make public policies that promote reconciliation – an objective that we share and find – calls for economic sustainability. So, it's in the way of applying conciliation policies and the model of education in infants from zero to three years we diverge, and that's why we would vote negative points 1, 1a, 1b, 6, 7 and 8. And we are doing this for economic viability, because we prefer to propose to the future rather than to adopt the past, because their proposals do not guarantee the possibility of conciliation, undermine the decision-making capacity of the same centres and do not seem to take into account the vast diversity of the territory. Because we share the objective, we vote in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.184.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.185.0	...points 2, 3, 4 and 5. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.186.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. All the same, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Can. Intervention by Ms. Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.187.0	Thank you, President. And good morning to all and to all. The first thing I want to do is to thank the Ciutadans Group for having presented this motion on bressol schools; it's always a good opportunity to talk about it. But I have to say that the first thing that asked us about this young man's attention is his title, because he says: "about the reconciliation of the vast differences in the lives of families with infants between the ages of zero and three. And I'm saying I'm calling attention because it's just bressol schools, so the differences in the future we've been looking for, but we haven't found them. And the second thing that seems more relevant to us is that this young man has presented himself to this legislature, but it could have presented himself in any other; in fact, years ago he could have presented himself, but this is not the fault of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, this was the fault of the Government of the Generality, which brings more than five years to the families, to the schools in Bressol and to the joints, which, of course, have had to assume this task and invest these money to finance the schools in Bressol and have not been able to make any other social policies that they were of their own competence. Specifically, and entering the office, at the first point, which refers to the financing, we do not just have more clarity on what is the financing model that Ciutadans proposed. I say this because, from one side, they demand a presuppositional endowment for children's education from zero to three years so that they remain universal and free – I insist, universal and free – but it is that they continue to talk about recovering as a minimum an economic module of 1,600_euros to reach 1,800 per plaza and year, as a backlash to the law and, moreover, as the advisor said the other day that they would compromise. It wasn't so concrete at the time to say if it would be for you, was it? , third parties– of a third family, a third group and a third generality – but he did say that he would be part of the co-responsibility. Therefore, we would appreciate it if Ciutadans had just clarified whether we were talking about recovering the three-thirds or a free school model and, therefore, that they would take over between Generalitat and I do not know if they have spoken to the assemblies. Other points: « Increase the number of public places facilitating the reconciliation of work and family life. Increase places, of course we want, and more is needed, and mainly in those territories that are more punished by the weather. However, the increase in public places at school in Bressol should not only be directed, as has already been said in previous interventions, towards the reconciliation of work and family life, but should be directed mainly towards those places where there is an index of attitude which is higher, where family income is lower and where the socio-educational level of families is lower. All these criteria must be taken into account. And that's directly related to point 8, where we're already going to abstain, on the conveniences of entrepreneurs with children, which we don't share. For points 3, 4 and 5, we will vote in favour. We want more resources for the Bressol schools, which continue to have universal access, which reach those families that most need it and, of course, we want a host of children who continue to be included. On Point 6, English Teaching, we arrive late for encanny, but in any case we believe that the study of English does not only have to be a one-month thing in summer, but must be and be part of an annual plan. At point 7 we'll also abstain. We think it's good to make school hours more flexible, but it's not because children do the same hours as we do at work, just to move the entry and exit fork, because it's a day, in short, that it's pedagogical, that it's relational, that it's child's and it's not work. And, to close, we did not present any comments to the text, because we preferred to make our own inquiry about the support for the first childhood. We don't think it's time to just look at part of the picture. It's time to look at the honest image, with all its complexity. It is a plan for child development focused on the first childhood, which takes into account the schools of Bressol, but also the family spaces, also the actions of support and parental empowerment, and which must be accompanied by other measures such as the same and non-transferable maternal and paternal reductions that we have also presented to the Congress. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.188.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.189.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, our group will vote in favour of the 1-5 points and we will abstain on points 6, 7, 8. And I'll explain very briefly. Indeed, and taking advantage of the fact that we have the counselor here, obviously, for us the teaching, the school from zero to three years is a central theme, and we believe that it is a central theme for the country and, therefore, that it should become this legislature – I insist, in this legislature, on this temporal logic – on an absolutely central theme. Because it seems to us that it is for objective reasons and also to come from where we come from, from a period of great precariousness in this sector in the context of the crisis, and also taking into account that this has involved for many assembling our country to make economic efforts in this sense, raising resources and raising fears that they are serious about their competence with regard to public policies. Therefore, here is a rebalancing with society and with the gatherings that, obviously, requires an effort on the part of the Generality that is inescapable, and more taking into account that teaching from zero to three years, as you know very well, is a key factor from the point of view of the fight against social segregation and is a key factor from the point of view of the fight against inequalities. Therefore, all that we invest in school from zero to three years will obviously, and very directly, revert to the better of social equality in our country. We know that this means 800_million, such a time, but it seems to us that they are very well-inverted and well-spent money and that, therefore, this must be one of the priorities of the country in this legislature. Perfectly reaching universality and gratuity... there are transition paths, such as social pricing, etc., but obviously we cannot need this reversal objective to be essential and necessary in this legislature. And very quickly, in order to finish, we will abstain at points 6 and 8 because we actually think that conciliation does not necessarily go through to increase school hours, but precisely to make people's working conditions more flexible and better, allowing them a proper dedication to the task of curing. Nor does planning on the industrial map seem to be a measure that brings us with it a new planning and a good planning of school resources, nor from zero to three years. In any case, it must be a variable that must be taken into account between a global vision of planning based on the needs of the territory and the proximity criteria of the students.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.190.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.191.0	And, on the other hand, and lastly, we think that school resources, yes, must be used outside school hours for social and community purposes, but, we insist, this does not necessarily mean an extension of school hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.192.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, for the record, it's Mrs. Sonia Sierra's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.193.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Niubó, the one who has to see the conciliation and the month of July is that normally students have vacations and families don't, and that's a way that can help to reconcile. For what it does to the fact that they are nadius, in reality we are all nadius from the place where we were born; here we refer, obviously, to the lands of speaking angle. And it's a question of having the opportunity to have some classes with an unresolved teaching and having the opportunity to practice, for example, the accent. For what you do to Mr. Sole, welcome to the dial. You start with your group; you start with the gatherings where you don't call us people who aren't grateful. It would be a very good way to start the dialog. I begin, for example, to say that we are not boycotted, that we are allowed to do acts there where we are, that we can go to any city in Catalonia and we can do an act; not like Vic, that they prevented us from doing so. That would be a very good way to start the dialog. Let us pay tribute to Cervantes without coming to stop him. All this would be fantastic ways to start the dialog. And here they will find us. Then I don't trio to answer the question. I did not judge that it was Mr. El Homrani and, in fact, I am aware that Mr. Bargalló wanted to answer this question and they did not leave it. [[Widow's remorse.]] We totally agree that it shouldn't be like this, it shouldn't be that when a woman has to... when the woman is to be reconciled. But let's learn from his party, let's learn from Esquerra Republicana, who has a deputy who considers that the way to sort women for the top is the size of his pit, let's learn from you, not one. [[Greetings.]] This is the merit of the Republican Left. And for what it does to where you can get the money, so, for example...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.194.0	Mrs. Sierra, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.195.0	...of the embassies; of the political bars; of Mr. Torra, who charges twice as much as the President of Spain; of the councillors, who cover more than the ministers and more than the President of Spain... There are many places to take the money. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.196.0	We called for a vote. Are there separate voting requests? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.197.0	Separate vote of 6, 7 and 8, which can be done jointly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.198.0	Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? So we can vote on a whole first block up to point 6, and a second block 6, 7 and 8? Yeah? Don't you? [[Pause.]] So I asked if there were separate votes. Mr. Pujol, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.199.0	Yes, it has to be a separate vote, President. From the first point to the sixth it did not comply with the vote, so it has to be separated. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no. From the first, first and first be able to go together. Next ones, if you want, like a pack, from 2 to 5, too. The 6th and 7th separately, even though you told me that the 7th and 8th would go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.200.0	So, let's see if we've made ourselves clear: from the first point, the 1a and 1b point separately, but together? (Founding voice) Together the two, I mean, 1 bis and 1 ter, but separate from the rest of the points? ( Someone said, "Yes.") Up to five? The 6 per se, the 7 per se and then the 8 would be left. Yeah? Okay. Is that clear? (Whispering) Let's go back to it: 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 together, right? [[Widow's remorse.]] I asked if there were separate votes, Members and Members. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. All separated? Listen, let's do one thing, that we'll end up before, vote all the separate points. All right. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... Let's start the vote on Point 1 – Point 1. The vote begins. This point was approved by 68 votes to 63, with no abstentions. We now vote on the 1 bis– 1 bis point. The vote begins. This point was approved by 68 votes to 63, with no abstentions. And let's move on to the 1 ter – 1 ter point. The vote begins. This point was approved by 68 votes to 64, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. I mean, for the record. Let's move to number three, vote number three. This point was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let's move to number four, vote number four. The vote begins. This point was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. I mean, for the record. And let's now proceed to the vote on point 5– point 5. The vote begins. This point was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. And let's now proceed to the vote on point 6. The vote begins. This was rejected by 39 votes to 65, with 28 abstentions. And let's now proceed to the vote on Point 7. The vote begins. This was rejected by 39 votes to 64, with 29 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now, and later on, from this young man. The vote begins. This was rejected by 39 votes to 64, with 29 abstentions. And if I haven't figured it out, isn't there any other point in this vote? Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right, then, let's suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.201.0	Let's resume the plenary, follow the order of the day. The seventh point is the motion following the question to the Government... [[Funnel veils]] I'm sorry, yes, Mr. Pedret, why do you ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.202.0	Yes, Mr President, to make a call to the observance of the Rules in relation to Rule 38 of the Rules, and also this, in relation to 161. Our parliamentary group has registered a request for reconsideration of the qualification decision and acceptance of the compromise motion concerning the CUP motion that will be seen at the last item on the agenda, and we think it is good that the Bureau has the opportunity to examine it before the vote is produced, the substance of the item.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.203.0	Mr Pedret, as you know, there is no formal act of admission to deal, from the Bureau. That's how it's always been. In fact, this debate has already taken place at other times, in other plenary sessions, and the view that has actually taken place is that which marks the Rules and that which has taken place so far, that there is no act of admission to deal with transactions on the part of the Bureau, which form part of the agreements between parliamentary groups. They are allowed to submit proposals, they are allowed to submit proposals, but the transactions form part of the agreements made by the parliamentary groups and there is no concrete agreement, and there is no concrete treaty from the Bureau, from admission to the transactions. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Pedret...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.204.0	So, President, if we don't have a lot to do with it, at the next meeting of the Spokesman and with regard to precisely this issue we agreed that, if necessary, there would be a meeting of the Bureau to assess the transaction. That's how we get it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.205.0	So that's why they don't have to hear, exactly, what it was that was said to the Bureau. Actually, the Bureau was asked, in some cases, to make this Bureau for admission to deal, but the same argument that I needed before to say what the position is now, it was also used for us to explain it in the Bureau's agenda. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.206.0	Yes, also on a point of order, Mr President, and in the same vein. The Bureau needed to be convened to qualify the compromise amendments that had been tabled. And this is not only the opinion of the groups, I understand that it was, first of all, the agreement of..., already an agreement of the Bureau, in that sense, that it was to meet to make these kinds of qualifications when they were discussed and, moreover, a recommendation of the lawyers. If what is being pursued is to gag the judgment of the lawyers, if what is being pursued is that they do not say so in order not to have to contradict it explicitly, for they tell you clearly, but this is already beginning to have dyes of the past legislature. And you're already doing things here that remind us of what President Forcadell was doing. We are living again, in these plenary sessions, abuse of the right of Members to be heard, and we are living an abuse, from the moment when the Bureau is not convened and a meeting of spokespersons is called for and what must be resolved and what must be talked about in the Board of Speakers, it is postponed to a moment after what needs to be talked about. That is, we are going to talk about the CUP motion when the CUP motion has already been voted on and there is nothing left to do with the objections put by the parliamentary groups. And not any parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.207.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.208.0	... Mr President, with all due respect, groups that we represent many Catalans, so many that we have won the elections. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.209.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you know perfectly well that there is no agreement of the Bureau in this sense that you are fencing, but, for another band, it is very clear... [[Widow's remorse.]] If they ask me... if they give me a consideration and then they don't listen to the answer, I'd ask them to listen to me... It is not certain that there is an agreement at the Bureau in this sense that you are engaged in farming. And, on the other hand, what is obvious is that section 168.2 of the Rules is very clear about transactions. In fact, not only the Rule of Procedure; not only, therefore, the Rules of Procedure, which governs all the actions that are taken in this House and in the Bureau, but also, until now, as you know perfectly well, at any time the transactions have been processed by the Bureau, but they have always been agreed between the groups. He was admitted to forwarding the proposal, he was admitted to forwarding the proposals, with a debate and some considerations, indeed, to the Bureau, but they are already admitted to forwarding these two questions, both the proposal and the proposals, which are the two that are admitted to forwarding to the Bureau, not the transactions. And you know it perfectly, Mr. Carrizosa. For another band, the Board of Spokespersons convened just after the plenary and not during the plenary. Therefore, immediately, at the first moment when I can summon this Junta de Portaveus, which, for another band, correspond to me to summon it... – you have an opportunity to request it, but correspond to me to summon it –, we have summoned it so that it is immediately after the Ple. Therefore, as quickly as possible. [[José Maria Espejo-Saavedra Conesa asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Mirror?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.210.0	Yes, on one point..., for a call to the President to observe the Rules of Procedure. Yes..., well, first to know if you are going to attend to the request that I have made to you, that you have not answered it all day..., I think there has also been some other member of the Bureau who has asked you to convene the Bureau, and well..., I have not received an answer, I have done it, this request, this morning and I have not yet had... I have heard from the journalists that the Bureau was not going to be convened. I suppose you have told the journalists, but this second vice-president of the Parliament has not been honoured to reply to a letter formally presented by the Registry. So, that's my first question. Secondly, as regards the observance of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure, which I have unfortunately had to remind you on other occasions, since you interpret the Rules of Procedure in a very particular way, the functions of the Bureau of Parliament. The Bureau has the following functions, one of which is precisely: "To decide on the processing of all writings, all writings and parliamentary documents. A compromise amendment, tabled in writing, comes into – I believe – the "all the writings". And, apart from that, I think it is a parliamentary document. But in case there is any doubt, that at least the doubt I think there is – at least the doubt I think there is – because three members of the Bureau – three members of the Bureau – have asked you to convene the Bureau, there is another function that the Bureau also has, in accordance with Rule 37.3, that you are about to fail, so it seems, that is: "To adopt the decisions required by parliamentary procedures, in case of doubt or a regulatory gap. At the very least, I believe that if there are three members of the Bureau of this Parliament who want the Bureau and some lawyers to meet, who I am aware have addressed you to tell you that they believe that the appropriate and timely thing is for the Bureau to meet, I believe that at the very least, by welcoming this question that the Bureau is the one that resolves any doubts that may arise, the Bureau must meet. And at least to reply, when two members of the Bureau, three members of the Bureau have requested the Bureau meeting. Therefore, here in public, in front of all the Catalans and all the Spaniards who may be seeing us, I ask you, Mr President of the Parliament, to convene the Bureau, to which I am a party and we are part of other colleagues in this Parliament, to fulfil our obligations and to exercise our rights. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.211.0	Back... in the first place, Vice President, we answered the cards or documents that came in today. Now I was talking to Secretary Pérez who recognized me that we actually answered. I don't know if... they should have rejected it. So, we've answered all the... all the documents, as we always answer all the documents. In any case, we have a written document, we also answer for the same way, which is with a written answer. You referred to Article 37; you referred to it before Mr Carrizosa, and in order not to abound a little with the answer..., you are now referring to a point that spoke about the decisions required by parliamentary proceedings. In this case, there is no parliamentary processing of the admittance to forward transactions to the Bureau. And not just for what he does to the Rules, that is to say, Article 168.2, to which I refer, but this is the usual practice. In fact, transactions are always part of the agreement of the groups and there is no concrete admission by the Bureau. In any case, I insist that he was allowed to forward the proposal, that he was allowed to forward the documents, with considerations that all of you could have done at the Bureau, and not just you, but the same people, and therefore the parliamentary procedures were completed. Now, the transactions are part, as I say, of these agreements between the parliamentary groups without need – and so the Rules – that there is an admission to court on the part of the Bureau. ( José María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa asks to speak.) Say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.212.0	I therefore understand that you are not going to convene the Bureau, not only to discuss this issue..., the governing body of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.213.0	We know perfectly well what the Bureau is and what the governing body of this Parliament is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.214.0	But I haven't asked him if he knows, I know he knows and what I want him to say is whether he's going to call her or not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.215.0	If you let me speak, Mr. Vice President..., if you ask me..., if you ask me a question and then you won't let me answer [[remorse of the voice]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.216.0	Don't worry, don't worry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.217.0	...obviously..., no..., in any case, who orders the plenary and who asks calmly for me, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.218.0	Especially if it's okay. [[Strong remorse of the eyes. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.219.0	In other words, I'm not going to go into consideration or debate with you because it seems to me to be totally disrespectful of what you've just done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.220.0	Well, it seems disrespectful to me. [[applause]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.221.0	... disrespectful..., disrespectful and uneducated; but, in any case..., in any case, I don't want to go into the forms...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.222.0	...seems to be disrespectful to all these represented deputies, who have asked me to complete the Rules, and you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.223.0	Mr. Espejo..., Vice President..., Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.224.0	...please, Mr. Counselor, you must also respect them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.225.0	Mr. Vice President, I'm asking you not to be nervous, I didn't believe, we don't exalt ourselves any more than we seem to be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.226.0	Don't you? So tell him 'heal counselor, who was yelling at me... (Strong remorse of voice.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.227.0	Vice President, quiet's, please..., quiet's'try... ( Continues strong remorse of voices.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.228.0	Yes, yes, yes... now you're in peace.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.229.0	Vice President, I'm going to have to remove the word or call it to order, and I don't want to do one thing or the other. Therefore, he asks them..., he asks them to keep quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.230.0	Well, then do whatever you want, if you're already failing the Rules...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.231.0	Vice President, I'm asking you to call me and... Listen, I'm using the word, you asked me a question. I say that the competence to convene the Bureau is the President's. I've already answered them in relation to this, not just here, but, more importantly, I insist on it, if you answer it by writing. If they haven't rejected it, I'm sure they're at the right point, and in any case, they'll have the answer, I insist, on the very way you've done it, which is written. Thank you very much. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into political and social consensus around major country issues]] [[302-0003/12]] We're still on the order of the day. We continue with the motion following the question to the Government on political and social consensus around the great country issues, as we say, presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The honourable Member, Mrs. Eva Granados, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.232.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Deputies..., the debate on this political and social consensus around the great country issues, which we were going to convey to Vice-President Aragones, fifteen days ago and where we want to see that without broad agreements there will not be any solution to the great country issues; that without a majority of two-thirds, we will not advance; that we will continue with the impotence, every day more frustrated, every day more crisp. And we know it won't be easy, it won't be quick, but today we want to celebrate the will of the President of the Generality. My group welcomes the willingness of the President of the Generality to open this dialogue space between the President of the Generality and the Presidents, the presidencies of the groups and the subgroups of the chamber. We believe that we need to derail statements and that we need to finally abandon the unilateral path. For us, embracing democracy means respecting standards, standards of coexistence and the majority needed to reform those standards of coexistence. That means embracing democracy. And, for us, the disjunctive is very clear: either there is a dialog or there is confrontation. And this is the decision to be made and this is the decision that the President of the Generality has to make. And we understand that if it opens a space of dialogue between parliamentary groups, it is that it wants to give this dialogue an opportunity and abandon the confrontation. Yesterday Minister Batet said that the Catalan crisis will not go away on its own. Minister Batet said that "the resolution of the conflict in Catalonia is of a high complexity and goes beyond governments and probably beyond a legislature. And, therefore, we celebrate this space that we have given, as a dialect, we hope to be stable, between the president and the presidencies of the parliamentary groups. This is the reading we make of the agreement that we have reached four groups from the chamber and to whom I want to thank the negotiation that we have had in this young man. And I'm also saying, we're not assuming any results. Of course, there will be fears that we will not agree, but we are convinced that only from the word, only from the effort to reveal where we are together, can we move forward. Fifteen days ago I said there was a new way. And now, when I listen to political leaders in my country, then, I can prove, from the great ideological differences, in which they are: among those who want to help solve the problem or those who want to deepen and live in and for the problem in Catalonia. We divide between those who want to contribute to finding exits or those who have as strategy to sharpen and eternalize the confrontation. This agreement, for us today, is a step towards finding a way out and giving politics an opportunity. For us, working for the solution involves dialogue, acting from reciprocity and loyalty between governments, institutions and parliamentary groups. Acting recognizes the plurality of our society, and acting, therefore, incorporates what does not think like you to represent everyone, which is also to be done by the President of the Generality. Today's agreement for us is an opportunity, an opportunity to look us in the eye, an opportunity to start talking, and an opportunity to look for large majority groups, which in this Parliament are extended if they are two-thirds of the Members and the Members we are here. I have two messages that I also want to send to those who want to continue the confrontation. For a band, at the head of the independent files, the leaders of the independent files are asked to abandon, if you please, the posture of this disobedience. There can't be so much difference between what the speech is and what the facts are, it doesn't hold up anymore. And if they have appointed representatives to the bilateral bodies present to the State do not tell us after they want to skip the State. Every time this is less credible. In our group you will find your hand extended to the dialect, but you will also find your firmness in the defense of law and good bargaining faith. And if outside the law there is no democracy, outside the law there can only be mechanisms to ensure that it is back to law. And I also want to address the doorman... the mouthpieces of the new baton from where Pedro Sánchez looks. And I ask Mrs. Arrimadas and Mr. De Páramo, who will speak later: do you mind if someone try to settle the conflict? Is that what happens to Citizens? [[Greetings.]] Do you mind if someone try to fix it? You, Mrs. Arrimadas, what do you prefer? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Is it difficult for those who want confrontation or to live in confrontation? Mrs. Arrimadas, that is the answer we expect from you. [[Widow's remorse.]] You lived better with Rajoy: the problem was neither noticed nor addressed. What do you plan to do now? Allying with Puigdemont [[relays]] and continue with confrontation or give a chance to dialogue? I think it's good that someone tries to fix it, and it would be good for Citizens and People's Party to contribute to the solution. In the end, its voters also want an improvement in funding, they want a reform of the Constitution, and that's what we're going to try. Last but not least – and I finish – the motion we are presenting incorporates two more points, one that directly appeals to the government that does not govern, a government that is who the president is who does not even need the people. We say: "Five years of retailing and two years of powerpoint. So let's see if after five years of retailing and two years of powerpointing about what we agree in this Parliament the government is putting the needle down and we start working on labor exploitation, on professional qualifications, on vulnerable childhood, on labour inspection, on male violence and all the issues we have about the table. And, lastly, a point that you see – I think you don't see it, but it does – the social polarization that exists in the citizenry, and the need to work for civil reconciliation. This is the task of everyone, but it is especially the task of the President of the Generality, of the Government and of political representatives, who are concerned with the consensus that you broke late in the past. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.233.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. Now is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, of Mr Xavier Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.234.0	Good afternoon. We've just lived, and in fact, we're living this late in a revival of last year's legislature. I believe that there are illustrious citizens who are smiling before this reality. It's not my case. But there's news – I think the news will be the revival, and that's what's going to be on TV – but there's double news that I think is important. First, today we find ourselves in front of the first agreement that the Socialist Party meets, ourselves, the Republican Left and Together for Catalonia to face a space of dialogue. It's the first deal, I think, in a long time in that sense. And it's also the first agreement of those political forces that we made possible a little while ago to make Mr. Rajoy out of the state government. In this sense, we welcome, obviously, this agreement, which we are partners in, because this goes in the path from which we have always defended: the need for an internal dialogue that allows us to be stronger than the country to face a dialogue with the State, with the Government of the State. A dialog that's not part of it, but can represent the whole thing. A dialog that in this case is concrete in the space that the president will want to call when he believes, and that for us, in this case, is positive, but it is not enough. We believe that the dialogue must go much further, it must be a collective responsibility of the political forces of the Parliament of Catalonia, that the political forces of the Parliament of Catalonia must be able to see that the political forces of the Parliament of Catalonia are obliged to participate and propose, and that is why we have proposed the table for the dialogue, in which we will continue to work for the next few days. Dialog is not the solution, but without dialog there is no solution. It's not the end, it's not the end, but it's an absolutely necessary medium. For us it is obvious, absolutely obvious, that the unilaterality that has left behind a part of our own people has become the main weakness of the strategy followed in these last moments. It is also quite obvious that not facing face problems, that letting there be a government of the courts, that thinking that 155 is the solution has been the main weakness of the State and of politics in these last few days. Therefore, we believe that this dialect has as its first mission to emerge from the current blockades that we have, and this is called judicialization, it is said to be prisoners, it is said freedom of expression, but it also has as its mission to face the great problems of foundations, which have brought us or had us so far here. And here's a theme, which is the elephant, the elephant that they used to share between President Joaquim Torra and Mr.Iceta; the elephant that they would now pose from the habitation, which is the elephant of the referendum, and will dance from that room we hope that months and months – we hope that you will not expel them from the habitation – which is the debate about the famous referendum. For us, there is no elephant here, or so on, our position is absolutely clear. It is the same position that defended the same Socialist Party of Catalonia not so long ago; it is the same position that defended constitutionalists like Rubio Llorente or Javier Pérez Royo not so long ago – Pérez Royo, currently. In fact, even if I were to say, no, I wouldn't say, it is the same position that Francesc de Carreras, an illustrious constitutionalist from Ciutadans, has defended, which he also said was possible and feasible, and constitutional, this reference. But I think here the key question and with it... the key question has never been the reference. The key question... well, we've defended it and we'll defend it, huh? , that no one is concerned, but the key question, in reality, has always been the sovereignty, the recognition of the sovereignty. Because if the reference is constitutionally possible, and socialists have said it and they have also said it constitutionalists of Ciutadans, why is this reference not made? It is not because it implies the recognition of the existence of a Catalan demo. That it is that recognition that also has the Constitution of 78 when it says that the Statute votes it by the people of Catalonia. It's exactly the same recognition. And it's that recognition that broke the sentence of the 2010 Statute. And that's the big problem for me, any proposal has always been about sovereignty and here, in this dialect there is... in the future, when we have overcome the current blockades, any federal, confederal or independence proposal has to start from the recognition of shared sovereignty. Today morning Mr. Miquel Iceta said: "A euro-split book, I think there is a part of the copyright that I have paid for, that is, that I was able to read it. This morning he said that this book, his book The third way, he said that, in this book that I read effectively, that we find ourselves within the framework of the shared sovereignty of the European Union. So if you go to Europe and talk about shared sobrieties, less than talking about shared sobrieties when it comes to talking about Catalonia and Spain. Because this is the path of federalism and confederalism. And this is the way, I think, of the solution. Anyway, let's start the path. And I repeat, this is the real news that I should be getting out of this Parliament today. Let's start this way, and on this separate way, make them hold the dial bridges, make them hold.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.235.0	Mr. Domènech, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.236.0	For this way we have to overcome the current blockades and deal with the problems of the environment that are at the heart of all this debate. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.237.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.238.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, today we are talking about this motion of the Socialist Group on effectively – already said by Mrs Granados, and in fact also mentioned by Mr Domènech – we have reached an agreement. An agreement of the dialog, to open the dialog, we say, which we have always defended and we have always insisted on. So, anyway, in any case, we're good at getting ahead of ourselves in this sense. Yes, it's true that I listened to Mrs. Granados's inquiry carefully because I was just asking after you and you were quite related, and it took me away because you said that you wanted to talk and focus the first inquiry precisely on the search for internal consensus in Catalonia. Because they say, and I read it textually: "We ask them to recover those laws that we agreed, to recover those fears in which we agreed. Here in our Parliament we have established a democratic armor because important laws cannot be reformed with a small majority. And you felt it, didn't you? Listen and read. But of course, I think: « Let's go over the great themes of great consensus that have been generated in Catalonia. And, for example, so I go to the top of the reference, and Mr. Domènech actually referred to it. Referendum, said, which groups 80_percent of the population in Catalonia, which has a great deal of agreement with which we can make a reference on the future policy. It seems to me that this is a central force element. It seems to me that it is a central force of these great country consensuss there is. Moreover, it is so central that even 42,9_percent of Ciutadan voters say they would agree to make a referendum; 55,4 of Socialist Party voters say they would agree to make a referendum, even 33_percent of People's Party voters say they would agree to make a referendum, according to the CEO. So, I think it's a good starting point for big consensus that's generating Catalonia. Or we could also speak of a great consensus, such as the release of political prisoners who today are in the Spanish State, who in a recent, other day's inquiry said that up to 45_percent of the voters in Ciutadans agreed that they should not be in prison and 70_percent of the Socialist Party's voters. Or even we could talk about the monarchy – about the monarchy. A 59,6_per_cent puts them a zero. It seems that it is a high-force consensus, a zero-level 80_per_cent of Catalonia's citizens suspect the Spanish monarchy. I think it's a strong consensus. In fact, when you're complaining, I don't know who represents the majority sense of the citizenry in Catalonia better in front of the monarch's visits, so to speak, because if we're in a position to generate consensus... But we can go on, you can tell me, these are great fears. No, we don't come in here, we go into other more mundane fears. Well, then, we could talk about the own history approved with 120 votes in this Parliament; we could talk, finally, about the right to decide – we haven't spoken before –; we could talk about the Prat airport, the transfer, which brought together five hundred entrepreneurs, 136 entities; we could talk about the Mediterranean Corridor. But you can tell me, no, that's a lot of great fears that they don't fall on us, let's focus on even smaller fears. Okay, so, let's do it. Then we can look at the laws, can't we? , which exceeds the 66_per_cent that you have marked and, therefore, now I know which is the xifra that you posed. And, therefore, we could go, for example, to Law 5/2009, of remedies against the negative qualification of concrete titles or clauses in the matter of the Catalan law, approved for 86_percent of the votes of this chamber with no vote against. And, at, at, at, say... unconstitutional, suspended. We could enter the Law of the Synod of Greuges, approved with 87,4_percent of the votes in favor; suspended. We could go to Law 10/2010, to the immigrant people, approved with 86_per_cent of this chamber; suspended partially..., does not suspend because there is already a feeling, said, cancelled partially. We could enter the Law of Occupancy, 86_percent of the votes in favor; suspend. We could enter into Decree 5/2012, on the filings of credit institutions, approved with 3 votes against, 94_percent of votes in favour; unconstitutional and zero. We could enter Law 3/14, commercial timetables, approved with 74; unconstitutional and null. We could enter the Law 2010/14, of popular non-referendar consultations, approved with 78_percent of votes in favor of the chamber; partially cancelled. We could enter in the 15/2014, on the tax on provision of contents of digital providers, approved with 77_per_cent; cancelled. And so I could go on. I believe that you are mistaken as far as you are concerned: in the Catalonian Parliament, great consensus is generated that are permanently violated by the Spanish State. Here we are always able to have great consensus on transcendent issues, on important issues and on issues more than day by day. We've always done it – we've always done it – and it's always fallen on the part of the Constitutional Court or the Spanish government to come back. Therefore, Mrs Granados – and I finish – with us you will find, as always, the permanent will of dialyg. Therefore, we open a path, which, we are not sure, or like ourselves, that the dialog is always good, but it is not wrong to focus on who is carrying the consensus that is generated in Catalonia, which is the Spanish State. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.239.0	Thank you, Mr. Moral Gomez. Next, to defend the papers presented also, has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr. Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.240.0	Okay. Members of Parliament, Councillors, President Torrent, President Torra, these days, and this late, "dialogue is the word – the word. And that's fine, because we'd rather talk about dialog than repression. Certainly, Mrs Granados, « I would also like to speak with respect, with a point of respect, of President Puigdemont, Member and President, and we would therefore ask him to incorporate this respect into his speeches when he speaks of President Puigdemont. Dialeg is the meeting of dilluns that goes from the President of Spain to the President of Catalonia. Dialeg are the calls to make sure to speak of President Puigdemont of October 1. Dialeg is also the cry of the president of this country to talk about the money that the monarchy tells us goodbye on the night of October 3. Dialeg are the cards and slogans on the Dialeg for the week of 155, when the Senate, as you know, approved a legal and democratic aberration to secrete the institutions and the will of this people. Dialeg, we'll always ask him, and always in front of the capritxous toga and the garrot, I'd just miss him. But the dialog has one thing: it's practical or it's not practical. And in dial politics it's not the volatile and passionate overlay of a summer day at the plagiarism with friends. Dialeg, in politics, it's courage, it's courage, it's word, it's agreements, and it's negotiation. Don't freak out – don't freak out – I said "negotiation. Yeah, negotiate and treat us all as adults. Listen, analyze and negotiate. We want to talk about what to talk about. This time they won't catch us in an evil teranyina. They don't allow us to negotiate because it can't, and it can't because we haven't talked about everything before, and we haven't talked about everything, simply, because we haven't. So no, no, sir, dialog is the antithesis of "not to all that the State has practiced obsessively with Catalonia." Dialeg is also an attitude. It is not in conformity with a simple makeup operation that would not be good for Pedro Sánchez or Catalonia at length. He makes us because someone is willing to pull another ZP from the bar, the most famous number of the Zapatero – « Pasqual, I will support the Statute that comes out of Catalonia –, to end up making a Rajoy, which means raising a deaf and absurd wall, which also does not bring us into place. Therefore, they do not want to put a doll on questions that could bother the Moncloa. Together for Catalonia, it defends dignity, freedom, democracy, the ballot box and the dialect. Always for everything. We need to talk about references, political rights, laws falling for the Constitution, as they now explained; unjust imprisonment, and as long as we don't have to talk! We cannot convert Parliament into a large-surface, large-scale business area where there is a'seed, light dial, 0.0 dial, low-calorie dial, or caffeine-free dial' dial. You know that the PSOE and, again, you have a problem today: you didn't just applaud the "for them from PP and Ciutadans," but more than they approved, they defended and executed him. And now... oh, now! - Oh, now! To find out where we are, if they let me, I'll take a test. Talk? Mr. Iceta, are we talking? Talk. Point: right to self-determination; reference; charges of '1 October... Surely, from the State, who will say that King Philip was wrongly wrong? Who's to say the king's undressed? Check it out. And if it wasn't clear: right to self-determination. Order these themes as they seem right, but they answer; it's time to talk about everything. Som in the month of July of 2018, 5 July of 2018. Let's stop playing the fantasy of the 80-year-olds, 'cause the 80-year-olds won't come back. And, frankly, after listening to Members Albiol and Arrimadas this morning, they do theirs; they do theirs, they do theirs. President Sanchez must have a heart. If it's good, it'll be good, some of it will be good, and we'll be closer to the solution. That I didn't have to move's, get out of the pit, take the initiative. That I didn't have to! If it stays quiet, it won't solve any problems, cap. And, besides, those from whom it is intended to protect, they will criticize him with their usual harshness. You, if they don't move, they'll tell you everything, and if they do, they'll tell you everything, too. Therefore, if they move they will say exactly the same disarrays as if they are immobile. But there is a great but – a great but – there is a great difference between moving'so stay still...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.241.0	Go on, Mr. Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.242.0	I'll be done. But it's a consideration, a reflection to share. If the Spanish president is soft, maybe he'll sneak up and do a great service to the people. Dialog without: this is the formula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.243.0	Ahabi, Mr. Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.244.0	So this is the same thing: that we'll know on the evening what the State is proposing to the people of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.245.0	Thank you, Mr. Pujol. Also to defend the papers presented, for the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans has the word of Mr. Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.246.0	Well, thank you, President. President, councillors, deputies, deputies..., a preview, simply, to Mr Pujol : You are not the people of Catalonia, do not speak on behalf of the people of Catalonia. The people of Catalonia fortunately is much more than the lords of their party, the people of Catalonia are all: the people of Citizens, are you, socialists... I say this because you always, constantly, speak on behalf of the people of Catalonia, and that is very typical of exclusionary nationalism, which is what you practice. But no, the people of Catalonia are all of us. [[Greetings.]] It is what democracy has: we must respect those who think differently, we must respect those who win the elections... Democracy; welcome. Today's motion, comrades of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, you have found a bad day to present the, because we come today to whitewash Mr Torra and the Republican Left Party, to Convergence, the same day that we are going to vote in Parliament to declare independence. The day you come to give our lessons, to whitewash Mr Torra and to whitewash the nationalist parties, independence is going to be voted in this Parliament. I'm just gonna read it to her. Read it to Pedro Sánchez; send him a message, please, with this content. Because today they are going to say that they "ratify their firm will to endure the necessary actions planned and approved for this Parliament in order to achieve and achieve democratically the independence of Catalonia. Is that what you are going to talk to? With those who are going to declare independence again today in a vote? With those who have just banned us from a meeting of spokesmen to speak, to dialogue? For those who have just banned us a table in Parliament? Are you going to talk to those people? Look, I understand that you guys need to buy time in the Moncloa. We have to pay the rent for the Moncloa, and Mr. Sánchez needs to collect the mortgages from those who have helped him come to power. It's normal, we understand. But what we won't understand is that along the way you chop and sell Spain to pieces to stay one more week in Moncloa. We're not going to let him. [[Greetings.]] Look, I'm going to give you an exclusive, which I assume you know: Mr. Torra won't stop until he gets independence. I know you haven't noticed that yet. Your voters, yeah, huh? Your Socialist Party voters have already realized; you still haven't. And, look, every time you embark on a nationalistic adventure, you end up wrong – you end up wrong. But, yes, they teach us lessons to the rest of the parties, because, of course, we have not yet realized – fortunately, as he said, his voters, yes. I look at the nationalist adventures of the Socialist Party, we have experienced them at other stages. And you say, "No, but it's to fix it, and we're going to get it. He hasn't done very well for now – he hasn't done very well for now. In any case, we are the party of dialogue. [[Rialles.]] You, who laugh so much... [[Give me the applause.]] Give it up, give it up... [[You're looking for "Bravo! The applause continues.]] Give it up... give it up, and, Mr. Iceta, since you're going to call Pedro Sánchez, call Susana Díaz and ask Susana Díaz who she's running with, ask her, call her today. [[Greetings.]] Today you have a job, Mr.Iceta, today you have a job... Today you have a job: you have to call Pedro Sánchez to tell him that you are going to declare independence and you have to call Susana Díaz to tell him, or to tell her, to rule thanks to whom? : to the terrible citizens. Yes, thanks to Citizens Susana Díaz governs in Andalusia. Or with the People's Party in other parts of Spain. Have you achieved that? No, they didn't. We are, because we are the party of dialogue. Do you know who you got it from? [[Widow's remorse.]] With Torra, with the tripartites, and now with the new tripartite 3.0, 4.0..., and I've already lost, really, so many times that you have agreed with the nationalists. But in any case... [[Greetings.]] When the PSC applauds and applauds the nationalist parties as well, some believe that this harms us, and I believe the opposite. But in any case, dialogue, yes, but dialogue, yes, when they return to legality. Dialogue, yes, of course, when Mr Torra apologizes to all the Catalans that you have insulted for so long and that you have humiliated, in which we feel many of the MEPs and other Catalans who are listening to us. Dialogue, yes, when you say: "We are going back to the table of democracy, which is where the Democrats speak. Democrats speak at the table of democracy, where laws are respected. And, look, you can't like a law; well, I agree, it can be. But there are mechanisms to change them. What happens, that you, when you don't like a law, you know what you do? : assaulting power, declaring independence. And with that we disagree. And from Citizens we will not allow a weak government, which is the government of Mr Sánchez, an interim government, a temporary government, a government that wants to entangle itself in Moncloa at any price, as it has shown, and which has arrived at the hand of Mr Torra, of Bildu, and of Esquerra Republicana, to cut this country. We're not going to allow it. You have work this afternoon, you have to make several calls. Do the ones, because your voters will thank you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.247.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. Next, to fix its position, it has the word, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.248.0	Well, good afternoon. I'll be as quick as I can, because we have a little time. Sensing them to us you have come to make a table to recover the necessary sovereignty in order not to consolidate the pact of 78. But we are talking about the table proposed to us by the Socialist Party. We understand that this artifact that they propose does not go in the way of recovering sobrieties, but goes into another sense. And we ask ourselves, and we have some questions: in this table how long it will be dialogue, can it speak of self-determination? Is it possible to talk about Llarena's prevaricity? Can you talk about all these questions? We don't think so. The permanent table of the dialog will only serve, from our point of view, to take photos and to store a drastic and perverse synthesis: that the Spanish State imposes by judicial means what they know they are incapable of winning for democratic lives. The big country problems, we think they're people's, they're people's, they're people's, and they remember what we always say to them: the country isn't between these four pairs. Stop doing what others have done before and stop confusing the country with the parties. And this we give especially to those who want to lock up beyond what we don't stop to open down. This table makes you feel like you're hiding for a while. And, Mr. Torra, today, who has already spoken about his appointment with Pedro Sánchez, and who shows an apparent and impeccable republican rhetoric, remembers the wise words of the historian and activist of the Catalan revolution, Eva Serra, who today we take with sadness, and who says, in relation to the history of this country: "It is not the story of powerful people, it is the story of resistance, with silent, anonymous and discreet disobediences, in constant complicity with the social strategy of the lower classes, and also with the strategy of national liberation. Mr. Torra, you can't obey and disobey now. We think that the view and the popular will are the most important, so we made a reference. Mr De Páramo, we made a reference so that we can all give our opinion, with a check box of yes and a check box of no. It's what democracy has. [[Rialles.]] Finally, we want them to be very lucky with their dial table, and dialogue as much as they know, and when they're done, they'll find us poor, very close to those who fight and far away from those who run from the stakes to the people. They will find us disobedient, self-determined, and anti-fessistic. They'll find us at the side of the resistance, at the side of the fighting, like Eva Serra did. We want this dialog table not to be used to go completely to the counter. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.249.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party. Mr. Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.250.0	Thank you very much, President. Dialogue and agreement are absolutely vital in political life. A few days ago I reminded Mr.Iceta, in a previous debate, that, since the last twenty-five years, the People's Party of Catalonia, here in Catalonia, had reached more than two hundred municipal agreements with all kinds of parliamentary political parties. We are a party that we believe in the pact and in dialogue, but dialogue must comply with rules of play, because, if not, it becomes a trap dialogue. I have to say that the defeat of the separatist process took place on 6 and 7 September through a constitutional unity which demonstrated a great democratic strength and which portrayed the unilaterality and authoritarian character of the separatist movement. In fact, this constitutional unity continued during the implementation of article 155. The People's Party did not unilaterally approve it and then demanded loyalty, previously agreed with Citizens and PSOE, and announced it after the agreement. Unfortunately, the Socialist Party has embarked on a different strategy: it takes steps in solitary without having previously dialogued with Citizens and PP, and then asks for loyalty. He's repeating failed recipes from Mr. José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. Has anything changed in the attitude of separatism? No, no, Have you rectified anything? Not at all. And I am not talking about their ideas, which have the whole world's right to defend them, but about the methods they choose to defend them: they insist on the unilateral path, on claiming an illegal referendum, and they appeal to a right of self-determination that does not exist. Nor, Mr Torra, in Scotland; it was the British-British Parliament that approved a referendum. That's not the right to self-determination. The Socialist Party has the right to make policies with the majorities it can achieve in the Congress of Deputies, but in view of its eighty-four deputies, exemptions, it should be more careful in Catalonia and should maintain a constitutional agreement. Dialogue will only be possible within the framework of the law. It is only from the respect of the law that there is a fruitful, solid, lasting dialogue. Out of the law there is only chaos, conflict. And finally, a request – I am running out of time – to the Socialist Party: for its claim to negotiate and dialogue with 47_per_cent, which, by the way, do not want to dialogue, just want to impose, do not leave at the stand the remaining 53_per_cent; that 53_per_cent that October 8th told us, and you were present, to all members of the constitutionalist parties: "Do not leave us alone. Mr. Iceta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.251.0	Mr. Fernández...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.252.0	...don't leave them alone again, it would be absolutely unforgivable. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.253.0	Now, to pronounce on the exams, has the word of new Mrs. Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.254.0	Thank you. Yes, the time I have, to say that there have been discussions by the group of the commons, from Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left, that we have been able to trade this dialog space that I was talking about in my intervention. There was also a message from the Ciutadans Group, who speak of dialog, but they carry the instrument of dialog. And then, obviously, we couldn't make a deal, because if something is clear, when City and the CUP agree that they don't agree with something, it's maybe where we've given some chance to thrive. I believe that they are the neck of the motion of censure and the neck that they have won the elections in Catalonia and that they are unable to reach agreement with anyone. I hope that at some point we can find some agreement with the lords of Ciutadans. Also tell Mr Pujol that we ask him to respect also José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero and President Maragall in his speeches. I was talking about Mr Puigdemont, and it's obvious we'll all have to respect each other. We want to start the way to overcome the trenches, to build bridges. It is obvious that we always understand this, and this I say to the Lords of the People's Party and Citizens, also, always, with the law, always with the standards of coexistence, always with the majorities necessary to be able to reform them. And, to the Lord of the Moral, on the question he was talking about, if in any way the majority of the citizens agreed that it was necessary to improve funding and reform the Constitution. This is our proposal, but from all humility, because we do not teach anyone, we do so from humility, what we want is to overcome this situation of confrontation and believe, as Lord Domènech says, that the dialog is the way to find it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.255.0	All right. We called for a vote. Is there a separate request for a vote? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Moral Gomez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.256.0	Yes, President; we would ask for a separate vote from the first point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.257.0	Any more requests? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Fernández?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.258.0	Voted separately from the three.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.259.0	Okay. So we are definitely voting for the three points of this motion separately. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on point 1 of this motion. The vote begins. This first point of the motion was approved by 89 votes to 43, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. This point number 2 is rejected by 24 votes in favour, 69 against and 39 abstentions. And let's move on to the third and last point of this young man. The vote begins. This point, the third, is rejected by 62 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. There's no more way to vote for this young man. So let's go through... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Say, Mr. García, why ask the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.260.0	For a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.261.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.262.0	As we commented yesterday, like the secretary of the Bureau, I wanted to comment on it basically that one of the functions we have as such is that of correcting the votes that are produced. As you know, today there is a vote, and I believe that this vote, which you have added, is a change in the result, that we believe it is not appropriate, since six votes have been accepted from six people who have the delegated vote, six Members who have the delegated vote, and that we believe, as we expressed yesterday, that they should not have this delegated vote today.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.263.0	Well; in any case, his opinion is indicated, his perception, which will be recorded in the Minutes of the Plenary. Thank you. Yes, Mr. Moral Gomez, say... Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.264.0	No; for one, I suppose, call upon the observance of the Rules, I imagine, according to what the fourth secretary commented..., or third, now... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Third? [[Pause.]] Well, whatever it is..., Mr. García – Mr. García. [[Rialles.]] No; beyond Ciutadans' persecutory mania, I say, to alter the majority parliaments that came out of the late elections of 21 December, it is obvious that it would not change, nor with its benevolence that you are right – that you do not have it, because the only one who wants to change the majority – as our group president has delegated the vote of Congresswoman Driouch, which I obviously believe does not even enter his own, I say, supposed to ban it, that we know until now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.265.0	All right. (Whispering) No, we're not going into a debate. (Whispering) No, it's... listen, it's very clear what everyone has said, it's going to be in the Minutes, I said it, it's going to be in the Minutes of the Plenary what Secretary García said, it's going to be in the Minutes, it's going to be in the Minutes, it's going to be in the Minutes, it's going to be in the Minutes, and so they'll be able to prove it. All right, let's move on to the debate and vote on the following motion... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] If they're silent, we can go on with the debate. So long as we don't keep quiet, we can't go on with the debate. [[Pause.]] Thank you. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into housing policies]] [[302-0004/12]] We continue with the motion following the question to the Government on housing policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. She has the word, to expose her, Mrs. Susana Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.266.0	Yeah? [[Pause.]] Well, let's get started. It is clear that the previous motion aroused much more interest than the problem of housing in Catalonia. We must also be aware of this reality. [[Greetings.]] I would like to begin the intervention with sincere gratitude for the contributions and collaborations that we have rejected in our motion for a resolution. We believe that on the part of most of the groups in this Parliament there has been a clear interest in how to exchange opinions and impressions on housing policies and the situation in which we are, except for the People's Party, which is not surprising either, because we have already seen what they have done in housing issues for the last seven years that have been in government. This young man basically poses what we have already planted: the need for a national pact for the right to housing. What does a national pact mean? A country pact, a pact that goes beyond governments, that goes beyond institutions, a pact that lends political forces– let's see how many political forces in this Parliament agree with this national pact–, which also brings together organisations and movements for the right to housing, which bring other institutions and above all that debate on structural policies, change in structural policies to move towards a new model of housing in Catalonia. There has been a great deal of emphasis on the territorial area of housing. We've been looking at it. There has been a great deal of willingness on the part of the forces that are governing to insist on the territorial plan as a tool; it is certainly a very important technical tool, after we talk more, but the national pact is above all a political tool, a political tool that must give response to the more than 800,000 new ones that will create Catalonia in the next fifteen years and that will bring back the same territorial plan. So we are now setting up this national pact and this national pact to deal with solutions to the problem of housing, which go through planning, resources, structural changes and specific measures. In the planning – it has already been commented – the sectoral territorial plan of habitating, previews the law of 2007 and that we still do not have. I mean, hurry up, there wasn't any, either, to make this territorial plan. A territorial plan that is now near, that with the young man we propose to approve initially before three_months, but that, more than – and also thanks to a message from the PSC – we can insist that it has to have a scenario, an economic memory. Because the plan has to say what we want to do, as we want to do, but also with how much money we want to do. And the money finally ends up feeling the political will. It's the difference between mulled paper and effective policies. Resources, we talk about resources all the time. Cannot answer the problem of habitating without resources. What sets the law is to reach a 15_percent of the principle of urban solidarity..., 15_percent of public protection housing, in the next fifteen years. What the European media says is that we have to allocate at least 1.5_percent of GDP, and we are at 0.02. So, we're late, we're a little bit late. It is true that it has been said and insisted on the issues that we are already doing things, that we are doing more – that we are doing more. And, in fact, yesterday we saw that there was an announcement of a second promotion, package of measures of..., competitions of housing promotions of logger. All right. It's a _second, but it's very good that you do it. I mean, we recognize all this too. But there is so much to be done that it is clear how the Fund will be endowed with solidarity and how we will proceed to make all these measures effective. We also propose structural measures, especially at point 8. We believe that the ability to regulate the right to make public protection habitats in a consolidated urban only needs to be made more flexible and easier. It's what Barcelona has already approved. It's not an event, it's not a populist thing; it's what London does, it's what Paris does. That's proven, that doesn't scare anyone. Within these cities it has been seen that all entrepreneurs who want to build currents because they are forced to devote part of their benefits to public housing. Because it's that until we can get the people who are profiting and who benefit from housing to know that they also have a problem, the problem doesn't have only the people who can't access it, until we get it, we can't change the scenario of housing emergency that we have in this country. I will go very quickly too with other concrete measures – they already hold them in motion. We believe that we need to move forward very clearly and to put more resources into buying flats for as many and retraction, the empty floor tax, to put all resources into the months of emergence – they also explained this – but, above all, it seems that the public heritage that the Generality already has does not go into private hands and speculators of reversal. We don't subdue public heritage, please. The last points are where we want to see how the forces of this Parliament are positioned in accordance with the urgent need for reform of the Urban Lei d'altenamentos urbanes. It's not enough just to extend contracts – it's important, but not enough –; it's five-year extensions; it's to regulate the pricing between contracts, and, above all, it's to reduce the tax benefits of those who speculate with the logger. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.267.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, it is now the return of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, of the Lady Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.268.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members..., Member Segovia, present to us a motion, today, very extensive; a motion that deals with the themes of housing from different points of view. On the one hand, from planning instruments; they then go on to concrete actions to tackle housing problems, and, finally, as he said, they end up talking about the Urban Lei and propose to us agreements that for us there is not much sense that we are debating here today, because the debate is going to produce, and so it will be when the two laws that have been presented by the Socialist Group as well as the May Group to the Congress of Deputies have been accepted. In the first point, where they deal with planning instruments, they talk to us..., ask us to promote, update, approve the National Pact for the right to housing, the Pla del dereto a l'habitatge or the Pla territorial sectorial de l'habitatage. Look, it seems to us already that they want to re-edit and empower these instruments, but we believe – and in this sense we have presented the reviews – that from these instruments, first, we need to make a valuation of how they have worked so far, and then, in any case, we can re-edit them and do it in the right way. On the other hand, apart from appreciating how these instruments have worked, we also believe that in some cases they have to have an economic memory, because, if not, they just feel like a declaration of good intentions, but there is no real will to push them forward. And, speaking of resources, it's certain that you set up a series of measures for the housing emergency situation that we have and that maybe, let's say, will grow in the next few months when you vagrant these three-year contracts that some funded entities had made to reallocate people who couldn't afford their habitation, and that, therefore, we will have a quite complicated situation. And here we want to stop briefly at a point I have seen that there was no such thing, and it is in the proposal to implement the construction of fifty interim housing units within the term of one year, "to give out, they say, "in the short term, to the housing emergency. This measure means..., we have had the opportunity to visit these proximity properties that they propose – that they really are, let's say, the extension, at the level of Catalonia, of the invention made by Mrs. Colau in Barcelona –, they propose these five hundred habitats, that cost 90,000_euro each, their construction; 90,000_euros that have a useful life, like for a long time, of fifteen years. This means that for five hundred units it is 45_million euros that they propose that the Government of the Generalitat should serve in one year... 45_million euros that will disappear in fifteen years. If the data made public by the Generalitat respect the floors purchased by chance and retraction during the year 2017, we have that they have acquired 543 habitats for a value of 25,600,000_euro. Therefore, more habitats – in this case, forty-three more – with a much longer service life, a willingness to consolidate these habitats and at a much lower cost. So, we understand that this invention, we could say, of Mrs. Colau, is not a good tool, it is not a useful tool, and more quickly it is a clear example of the inefficiency of public resources. So, we understand... and so we'll do, we'll vote against this point. And, respect the last part of the motion, the one that the Government of the Generality urges to ask the Government of the State for a series of actions, we have proposed to them some ideas that they have not accepted. We get it. Because we already talked about it you and I, that really the debate on this topic was not to be brought here or it was not to be done here, but it was to be done in the field of the Congress. The State has the will to discuss this issue – the Government of the State has the will. The Socialist Party presented in its moment a proposal of law, too We can. And it'll be in this area where they're debating. We would vote for them for what they proposed to us in different ways. Our model, for example, establishes an initial duration of five-year logger contracts, plus a three-year extension. Therefore, we would not agree on these points. And, in any case, we understand, therefore, that this is a debate that will take place in another area and that a text that will be advanced and that will benefit the lobby sector will certainly be able to come out, so that the situation in which the PP law left us, was a very precarious situation for the lobbyists. Therefore, as in the conclusions, they have presented a motion – we understand that little effective in its conjunction – that intended to attack the issue of housing from many points of view, but what really it will be able to have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.269.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.270.0	...the incidence it may have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.271.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs Eva Baró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.272.0	Well, thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and Members of the public accompanying us from the stage, we shall begin by saying that from the Republican Group we believe that the problem of access to housing directly or indirectly affects all citizens and, in particular, the most vulnerable groups. That's a tough issue, it's a priority issue, and for us it's all about our commitment. Certainly, some housing policies that could have been made at home, on the part of governments of all colors, such as the construction of official housing protection in the ownership system, have proved insufficient and even counterproductive in the long term; because, while meeting the social need at those times, it has been harmful to be able to increase and consolidate a good social housing stock in the present. And now, when we need it more, we have a public park of habitats that is testimonyal, that is insufficient and that is at all surpassed to meet the current needs. Therefore, we need to work hard to contain and address the current situation, and above all we need to implement housing policies designed for future generations. Perhaps we would agree that in order to solve this problem, as in the least, I would compromise the three mistakes: realism, rigour and responsibility. Why? Well, to know where we are and to know what the real margin we can expect, what we can demand and what we can't. Also to avoid reductionism, which only makes the problem worse: they make objective analysis difficult, they make the shared diagnosis difficult and they subscribe to a partisan and tactist of a problem that generates a lot of sensitivity and a lot of social concern. But, above all, we call realism, rigour and responsibility to avoid frustrations and to avoid bans of reality, such as the one that we kick to cities like, for example, Barcelona, where there is a government that came to the mayor three years ago, with the will and promise to solve the problem of access to housing to the city, and in three years of mandate the indicators have not only not improved, but in some cases they have significantly worsened. So now, everyone – we all – know that this is neither a quick nor easy problem to solve. Therefore, we act accordingly. Since the Republican Group, we have presented papers to most of the points of a young man the foundation of which we share, which originally identified up to seven different petitions than in his majority – a few dozen, more or less – we have traded. We are not satisfied and will vote in favour, with some one-off abstention, for most points. And I take the opportunity to make a reassessment of the work done by Mrs Segovia, who has somehow been very patient and who has driven her. As well, the inflexibility to land and to improve some particular point, such as, for example, the destination of the immobile discards for the Generality coming from the heresies intended, show, in our view, an interested insistence to convey a report that they know that it is not a waste and they know that in rigor it does not conform to reality. They know that the decision on the destination of the immovables is neither arbitrary nor automatic, that it is collegiate and regulated. They are well aware that hereditary habitats that meet standard requirements to be considered social habitats go directly to the third social sector. And they know that the rest of the immobile herets that do not meet these standard requirements to be considered social habitation – they are parquings, they are low, they are habitats that could never have the habitable cell or immobile with a large accumulated debt that makes it impossible to do so – these go below, they are monitored. And the money obtained is fully and immediately reinvested into housing policies and social policies. They may not please them or may seem insufficient, the norm. No problem. So let's pose ourselves..., pose yourself there in better ways. But what we have to try to do is explain things as they are and not pay for confusing, ambiguous reports... And I'd leave it here. Therefore, I understand that here each of you needs to mark your own profile. And you also, obviously, in a matter of the fall and the importance that this issue has for all folds and especially for you. And I understand that, in some ways, this may make it easier to divert attention from the lack of effectiveness, perhaps, of housing policies that could have been done in some cities, such as, for example, Barcelona. But this can't be to the detriment... we think that this can't be to the detriment of rigour and responsibility on such a sensitive issue as this. We share, I insist, the full foundation of his youth. That's why we worked on it. We have worked very hard, and with the will to reach consensus that clearly mark Parliament's position on such an important issue. And we'll find each other. We will always find ourselves there, whenever we work together from rigour, from realism and from responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.273.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Antoni Morral. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.274.0	Very nice late. First of all, I believe that the motion is appropriate, and, therefore, I am grateful that this debate can be started here, in its place in Parliament. This is one of the most important problems we have in the country at this time, one of the most important social problems the country has, and basically the most vulnerable people, the most needy people, the people who today are being left without help. Therefore, an opportune debate. And secondly, also what I want is to please the predisposition, the willingness of dialogue and negotiation that has taken place, so, Susana, of the Catalonian Group, who has allowed us, well, to get to the force of transactions, by force elements that we have presented, that I believe that in conjunction with better force the young man. But, obviously, there are some aspects, such as logical, natural and legitimate, in which we have not been able to reach agreement. Some have already been mentioned here, the fact of accepting the construction of temporary dwellings, as was done in Barcelona with these five hundred dwellings. It seems to me that this is not an effective proposal, it is certainly expensive and slow and, more importantly, temporary, and it is an inversion in which there are other systems in order to be able to have a habitat immediately and faster and, surely, more amenable, as is the practice of taneig and retraction, as it has proved. Another aspect that has also been mentioned where we have not been able to agree is the issue of heredity. Clearly, all that is the heritage of intested heritage we consider to be going as far as possible what is to the benefit of social habitation, of lloger habitation. And, in this sense, all those habitats that somehow are already in the mood to be used for the logue, these, directly, are already going for this function. And those dwellings..., or those immovables that do not have the habitable cell, which would surely require a careful reversal so that they could be in the service of the lloger habitation, we have to take out the maximum yield possible in order to be able to use these resources precisely to the service of being able to make a more extensive offer of habitation, of housing of lloger and of being able to provide resources to the municipalities so that they can practice what is the taneig and retract to obtain habitations in their proper municipality. We are just three months away from approving the sectoral territorial plan for housing. This is a tool that must offer us the strategic lines of the National Habitating Pact. We believe that the National Habitats Pact can be an important tool, a space of consensus, of finding between sectors and all actors who, in some way, want to contribute to what would be a consensus for which it is a Habitats Pact. And that, in this sense, the contribution of the sectoral territorial plan of the habitat can be an important tool in order to be able to contribute to what is the pact. In fact, in these last two years there has been a growing reversal on the part of the Government of the Generality in relation to housing policies, lloger policies, to increase what is the offer of lloger housing park, and to compromise, as my advisor expressed to us in a question in the last few years, this is one of the main important objectives of the council for which he does these own years. Therefore, it will be a strategic objective and the compromise to increase resources to address this problem. Therefore, in this sense, the strong idea of this movement, which is the aim of promoting the National Habitation Pact, we share it, we celebrate it, we think it can be a good instrument to be able to reach a national consensus to deal with the policies and the needs of the habitation that the country has at these times. Therefore, this young man thinks he gives little to tackle this challenge and allows us to open the way to work in order to have this national plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.275.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mr. Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.276.0	Deputy, deputies, councillor, deputy Segovia, we find ourselves today before a volunteer, from our point of view. One is the willingness to talk about housing and another, one needs to repeat itself in drawing a _framework to make this debate. But for us, more than that. I reviewed your inquiry at the last session, at Councillor Calvet, and, looking at your motion today, I can't find the proposals that with your diagnosis it seemed we could find today. In fact, I found that there was a lack of a more accurate diagnosis of territorial, economic and demographic issues of the reality of the problem of housing in Catalonia. I would like to provide you with brief reflections – because we don't have much time – to this diagnosis. We agree on the need to develop effective access policies at the logger. But let us not forget that, possibly, one of the great problems we have in housing is precisely that currently demand exceeds the offer. We defend the incentives at the time of the auction, the real increase in the public investment in the housing of the auction, but also the need to make it easier for the owners to make the market available the habitats to increase this supply. If any of these initials fail we will find ourselves in a complex situation, where the fact of accessing an lloger habitat is almost a lottery. We are in a limited situation in Catalonia and especially in the metropolitan area of Barcelona. We know, for example, that the price of housing is above its maximum where we arrived in 2008. And we also know that the cities with Barcelona... I think you have already failed. And that's what the barcelons say. This very week we knew or knew the Barcelona City Council Barometer, where the barcelons consider that the difficulty of accessing housing is the second biggest problem, with a sidereal evolution, since at the last or the previous barometer this was the eighth concern. This, Mrs Segovia, after three years of management and having come to rule the Lady Colau, with Messianic promises around the habitation, should have them reflect very severely. What are they taking us to this young man? On the one hand, a new pact for the right to habitat, a new plan for the right to habitat. The performance report of the previous plan for the right to habitat. Ah, yes, and the sectoral territorial housing plan that the former government left hanging to declare independence. We may agree to take more photos, more peaks, more diagnosis, in short, but that and with that we will not solve the difficult problem of housing. Mirin, Law 18/2007 proposed to hold a 15-percent social housing in Catalonia in 2027. Today we're under the 2_per_cent. The preliminary project of the sectoral territorial plan for habitating is still broader than these objectives. Do we know how many public housing promotions the government promoted in 2017? Captain, not a single one. Mr. Damia Calvet will know, because he was responsible for Incasòl and he was responsible for this productive activity of the Government. Two warnings, including this set of plans and photos that they want to approve today, that will surely approve many of them, will be systematically incomplete for a government that is here for other things and for other purposes, and to do other things and with other purposes. Moving forward for the young lady, a young lady who I think might be able to give some support to, we arrive at point 9, which for me is particularly curious, a strange pirouette. What are they doing at 9th? Ask the Government of Spain, through the Generalitat, for a proposal that they want to approve in this Parliament, a whole series of legislative measures on housing, including the reform of the LAU, which is to be approved at the Congress. It's complicated. And I ask myself: if these proposals are considered so important, why do they not condition Pedro Sánchez's investiture with them? Or, better said, why did they decide that it was more important to demand control of Spanish Television than to implement these measures on housing? Fem this reflection. I think it's important that we take it into account because it's all a puzzle for us. Therefore, an empty, rather precise, little ambitious young woman who insists on everything that you have already failed, from our point of view, at the local level. The one who, in his group this morning, defined as a harmless, insipid, and painless young man. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.277.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix his position, has the word the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.278.0	Well, today we have listened to many excuses, we have again found that the movement in defense of the right to housing is the only guarantor of this right and we have also been able to see again the failure of institutions to guarantee the right to housing. Today was the movement in defense of the habitat that put the head and the body to put up with this. We see that no one wants to talk about the causes that led us to this situation. We have seen how it has been explained, on many occasions, that the causes of this whole situation are that families have wanted to live over their possibilities, but the causes of the crisis are not these, the culprits are not the families. Mrs. Baró spoke today about vulnerable people at risk of residential exclusion. They're not vulnerable people, they're people who're vulnerable to a system that's blatantly promoting speculation with phone book rights. We see how some of the institutions have promoted fiscal policies that reduce the purchase, followed a policy of the sole that encourages speculation, deliberately allowed the scheme; they have robbed us of the banking entities and this has been allowed, with thousands of abusive clauses. The cost of the bank rescue has been 60,000_million euros. Catalunya Caixa was the entity that most millions cost, 12,000_million euros. After that, this entity was resold only for a 10_percent of the value. The CUP brought me to the courts in solitary – in solitary – and we lost him. For another band, we also see that this young man only sets out emergency measures, palliative measures, measures that do not transform the system, that do not transform these housing policies. We understand that they are necessary, and we will position ourselves in favour, but we must expropriate the floors of the Sareb to put them in favour of the people who are in social logger for a 20_percent of the value of the son. And, therefore, to do this as we pass, that we go beyond the established legal and political framework. And that's why, for us, independence is a demand with the aim of improving people's living conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.279.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the turn of Mr.Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.280.0	Thank you, President, from the escó. First of all, an initial question, such as the reflection: was the market more or less regulated habitating year 1988 or now? It is obvious that with a cosmic distance it is today much more regulated by the Public Administration. In change, did they have more or less difficulties young and humble families to acquire a habitation in 1988 or now? I leave the question open. I say this basically because this young man, who is very long but says little, even though he seems paradoxical, like he says little, we will finally abstain in the first eight points, we will vote against the new one, but, even if he doesn't say anything, we don't like the music. Because the music is what you respectfully think of the housing market, and that in the initial part of the presentation I have just explained: more restrictions on the right to private property and more restrictions on the right-of-well-being and service between private individuals, which worked much better in 1988 than it does now. In short, you want to extend and apply the Colau method to the conjunction of Catalonia, and this is a disaster. And, therefore, we will not be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.281.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to stand up to the exams, has the new word Ms. Susana Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.282.0	Okay. So hard to answer everything. The theme of the Aprops, which commented on the company of the Socialist Group, is already discussed in another proposal. We don't care to make another one and have a broader debate, with a lot to talk about. On the subject of the LAU, which has also been mentioned, it is because we believe that it is important that Parliament and the forces that are here are located here, because that LAU also affects Catalonia, is discussed. I'll skip a mike now; the Republican Esquerra intervention, I'll leave it at the end. To Ciutadans's company tell him, first, that it doesn't surprise me that this is about pacts, plans and so on, because they've never ruled, so..., it's about public policy, not just speeches. So, I guess you don't tell them... but these are the things they have to govern. And holding the tools is essential for making the policies. Policies translate into planning tools [[applause]] If you don't have them, you don't. And that too, somehow... me... thank you that also, for example, on the subject of below, right? He said, "That's the only thing they've ever presented to us that we've done. We think we agree that..., and this takes a little something with which the Republican Left MP commented before, that not all of them, but that it is important to consult it. And now I would like to respond to the Republican Group by taking the three mistakes: responsibility, rigour and realism. And ask them that, please, they make the suggestion to Mr. Alfred Bosch, to the Barcelona Assembly, that it is obvious that he is the one who passes the data, and it has passed very badly. So all you have to do is review my previous inquiry, and all the data on the Barcelona City Council website, to know that it's done a lot more than you've said, and a lot more than Mr Bosch says. Because the "reductionism" also applies. And another mistake: resentment. I understand that they are feeling and feeling uncomfortable about what happened last night and what happened when they wanted to do the above, but it was a mistake and they had to correct it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.283.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.284.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.285.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.286.0	Yes, paragraphs 6.1., 9.1.b., 9.1.c., 9.2.a. On the other hand, 6.2, 9.1.a and 9.3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.287.0	I'll ask him to tell me again. In any case, before, if there is any other request for separate voting... yes? [[Pause.]] I'm saying because maybe we'll do more, by the way, by voting them all separately, say so. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.288.0	We would call for a separate vote on point 6.2, 6.4, 7.2, point 8 and 9.1.a, which could be voted on jointly for us. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.289.0	Say'm, Mrs. Granados, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.290.0	It'll be complicated. We, for one band, 6.2, 9.1.a...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.291.0	Listen to me. I... if it seems to them, we vote all points separately, and so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.292.0	Yeah, I see it's gonna be hard.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.293.0	...avoid confusion. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.294.0	We'll try harder, but... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.295.0	Look, please, Mrs. Granados, in any case, go back to it, because it's going to be targeted by the cast. And we'll vote separately for all the points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.296.0	Okay. For a band, it would be 6.2, 9.1.a and 9.3. These could go together. I, for another, 8, 9.1.c and 9.2, which they could also go together. [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.297.0	Yes; Mr. Pujol, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.298.0	I would not want to embolize him as before, to respect his work and to put the easy things to him. In any case, we should ensure that the vote is separate, if not lost, from point 6.2, 6.4, 7.2, 8 and 9.1.a. You might leave me some, but, go ahead, with these conforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.299.0	Thank you, Mr. Pujol. At this point, what if we left some of them, I'm telling you, before, that we'll vote separately for all the points, huh? From '1 to 5 they can vote together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? So, so, we'll vote from 1 to 5 together, and the rest of points each in solitary, okay? [[Pause.]] All right, so let's vote on point 1 to 5 en bloc. The vote begins. This was approved by 129 votes to three. We're still at point 6.1. The vote begins. This was approved by 93 votes to 39. And now we're on point 6.2. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 12 votes in favour; 'no, 117, and 3 abstentions. We now vote on point 6.3 – 6.3. The vote begins. This was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. And we're voting now on point 6.4. The vote begins. This was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 3 abstentions. Let's now vote on point 7.1. The vote begins. This was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. Let's move on to the vote on point 7.2. The vote begins. This was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 3 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of 7th... is there the rest of 7th? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, 7.3, huh? Okay. So, let's vote on the rest of point 7. The vote begins. Point 7.3 was approved by 129 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. We're voting point eight now. The vote begins. This was rejected by 47 votes in favour, 65 against and 19 abstentions. Let's move on to vote point 9.1.a. - 9.1.a. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 8 votes in favour, 120 against and 4 abstentions. Let's now vote on point 9.1.b– 9.1.b. The vote begins. This was approved by 89 votes to three, with 40 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 9.1.c– 9.1.c. The vote begins. This was approved by 73 votes to three, with 56 abstentions. And let's now vote on the rest of point 9, which includes point 9.2.a, 9.2.b and 9.3. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Separately, yeah? Okay. So, we vote first on 9.2.a– 9.2.a. The vote begins. This was approved by 73 votes to three, with 56 abstentions. Let's now vote on point 9.2.b– 9.2.b. The vote begins. This was approved by 108 votes to three, with 20 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 9.3 – 9.3. The vote begins. This was approved by 73 votes to 59, with no abstentions. And if I don't make a mistake, there's nothing left to vote on this young man. So let's move to the next point of the order of the day. [[The third secretary asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. García?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.300.0	Yes, President. As the secretary of the Bureau, as I said before, and in addition to Rule 41 which obliges me to review the votes, I say that there have been two votes again on these six votes that are delegated by Members holding the delegated vote, so they have influenced – and I want this to be the record – the final result; it is 6.4 and 7.2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.301.0	All right. [[Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the regulation of the Parliament annulled and suspended by the Constitutional Court]] [[302-0005/12]] We are now continuing with the division of the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the legislation of the Parliament annulled and suspended for the Constitutional Court. Before entering this young man's debate, we received a note from the press, which I call on, in this case, Secretary Pérez, who can read it because he is aware of all the members of the House.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.302.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. « You serve as a judge of the President of Parliament. The speakers attending today's plenary session on 5 July 2018 are admiring, in relation to item 18 of the order of the day, that the transactional issue number 1, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent, with registration number 8734, do not resolve the questions initially warned in the admission to the trial, respecting the pronouncements of the Constitutional Court that affect Resolution 1/XI and other pronouncements of the court related to the same, for which reason we recommend that it is not processed. Palau del Parlament, July 5, 2018. Antoni Bayona, Ferran Dominguez, Iletrats. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.303.0	All right. Keep going. Let us now begin the debate. It is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, which proposes this motion. There's the word, for two minutes and a half, Mr. Vidal Aragonese. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.304.0	Bona tarda, parliamentary workers and parliamentary workers, and deputies. With a two-minute and a half intervention, just to be able to explain what the motion we have presented consists of: for one band, giving material alternatives to the popular classes and, at the same time, building sovereignty, and for another band, or seeing from another point of view, improving the living conditions of people and making the sovereignty of Parliament effective. The content of this young man is basically related to what determines the living conditions of the popular classes. According to the agreements, or agreement, better said, of the motion: to make effective the contents of the articles suspected by the Constitutional Court, of Catalan legislation. We will not be able to refer to the total of fourteen suspicious regulations, but we do have, as a minimum, an approximation of what we are talking about. We're talking about how to deal with energy emergence, we're talking about climate change law, we're talking about universalization of healthcare. That's what we're talking about when we refer to suspicious laws. Third agreement: that the Government prepare and present, in the term of the norm days, a plan of execution on how these suspicious articles have recovered. Four of the agreements: that there be, also, in this case, for a period not of ninety days but of six months, a concrete action, not for the suspended laws, but for the cancelled laws. Those who also affect, absolutely, the living conditions of the popular classes. It will not give us time, nor will it, to refer to a total of forty laws, but we can remember: to gather immigrant people, to the effective equality of women and men or to measures in the matter of commercial hours. And the first of the agreements – because obviously we do not want to forget the first of the agreements – is a clear political bet because it takes the sovereignty of Parliament first, and therefore the expression of democracy of the people of Catalonia towards the repressive action of the Constitutional Court, and the global significance that expresses this motion; global significance that is that it has not been possible to make laws with deep social content if we do not take over the sovereignty of Parliament, and, for another band, that it is not possible to expand the social base to defend the construction of the republic if we do not make social laws that are profoundly transformative. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.305.0	All right. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can and, on its behalf, of Mrs Elisenda Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.306.0	Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors, President, Mr Mirin, we take part in all political debates, but we think that if we agree that democracy should be able to talk about everything we want, we think that today, precisely, it is important to analyse very concretely what they propose to us in this motion for a resolution, and therefore the political contents of this motion for a resolution. And when we enter into the political contents of this motion for a resolution, it is worth noting that a part of this young man is still looking back, it is still fixed on the past and on the gesticulation, as is the case with the first point, which we were talking about in order to build consensuss that effectively allow us to move forward like the country in sovereignty, but not repeating mistakes of the past. Looking back is good, it's good to learn from mistakes and not make them again. And some of it seems that there's no way to get past the same receptions when the moment is already different. It's time to overcome the erotic strategies of the past. We've already seen its limitations, we've already seen where gesticulation leads: it leads us to defeat, it leads us to extreme vulnerability and to a fragility of our institutions, even though you're stuck with a lot of epic. Now is the time to move from gestures to concrete facts. It's up to us to move forward, and we believe that across the country, across the country, we need to make sure that we move forward, that we won't be wrong again, and that we will take real steps towards building a better country. We think it's time to stop looking for the rearview mirror, it's time to look forward, it's time to work all for a full recognition of Catalonia's sovereignty; but a sovereignty that you serve to improve our people's day to day, because all Catalans and all Catalans obviously decide our future in democracy. The recognition of this sobriety, for us, passes today through a relationship of you to the Spanish State, a relationship of bilaterality that allows us to advance. And a sovereignty, too, that helps us build modern institutions, that come together to the new realities of the country; institutions that are able to articulate the demands of the citizenry, new institutions, open, transparent, that come together to the new society, to build this country; to build a country with new solutions that gives answer to us, to us from a society that has changed a lot in the last few years. And the first steps in the recognition of our sovereignty, which are certainly also in this motion for a resolution, come to recover the social laws approved for this Parliament, such as the Law of equality between men and women, the Law of climate change, the Law of empty habitats, the Law of poor energy... Laws, which, in many cases, have been approved by unanimity or by a very large majority of this Parliament. This sobriety that we're talking about is with this relationship between you and us that will allow us to have, now and here, the debate about the model of country we want. It is time to work to discuss and decide, here and today, what health system we want, what educational system we want for our children, what university we want for the young people of our country, how we guarantee the right to a decent habitat, how we end up with job insecurity, and how we have an energetic model that is superior to the current oligopolises. We have to debate and decide which Catalonia we want, of course we do. And to have these debates, so that we all understand that we are in a new stage, that we are in a new era, when new realities and new questions have been born, that also require new answers. If we learn from the mistakes of the past, what has happened;, if we add that when we are strong, we are of great consensus, when we come together with the country, of large and plural majorities that come together to the country that we want to represent and to which we have the duty to serve, if we understand that it is not only of motions and symbolic proclamations, that it was to build, and to build that means, also, to transform the institutions and renew the agendas of solutions, and of public policies in the service of the citizenry. If we commit ourselves to everything that we do from now on will be to move forward and not to fall into the same mistakes of the past, if we do all this, then this country will be unstoppable. Let us propose, among all of us, that this country and its people should not suffer more disappointments or defeats. Please, start winning. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.307.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's back now for the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià's.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.308.0	Thank you, President. I begin by stressing that in this Parliament we must be able to talk about everything and that we cannot let ourselves be conditioned. Even though we know today that parliamentary inviolability is a fallacy, we cannot give it up in any way. That said, today we re-approve of the political objectives of a 2015 youth, which we have already re-approved in 2016. And maybe that gives some kind of peace of mind. To us, it makes us feel that, by doing so, what we do is to give up moving forward. We reaffirm ourselves to the political objectives of the 2015 motion, but it's 2018, and it's been three years. We're grabbing a young lady who's talking about the iniquitous process of creating a state today. But it sounds ancient to me, because today we're at Puig de les Basses, and it seems to me that we're clinging to a text that says we're starting now, we can't, because it's not fair. And, despite that, we will approve and have the support of Republican Left. Because we're Republicans and we're not Republicans since 2015, and we're not Republicans since 2010, we've been Republicans for eighty-seven years, also when we were a lot of pockets or when we were almost alone. Because we are clear that the future of the people of this country can only go through a clean, advanced and socially just republic. And we don't want misinterpretations or misinterpretations. But today, fellas, we're not in 2015. Many things have passed – many things. And obviating it doesn't help us grow up. It doesn't allow us to add up. We're a lot longer than 2015, a lot more; a lot closer to the goal than we've ever been, but we're not there yet. And that's right. The independence process has been going on for a long time. In fact, what we lack is to complete it and no one will make us give up this objective. ERC has followed and will continue to feel it. We've made a symbolic gesture, but, modestly, we think it's not very effective. We've got a keystone in an old strategy, previa, at last, when the reference came up. And maybe it's time to leave us with symbolic gestures and do what allows us to move forward, to add, to what we do in an effective way to the object and do from the unit of action, to do it together, trying to work each and every one of them in their space. We're on our way, another time, to the convinced, and not to the one we need to convince. We're right, and we'll win, but we won't do it voting the same as in 2015, or talking just for what we already know, or looking at who is more independent than the other, because what it's all about is not being the most independent, but, you know, independent, being more. To sum up, I would suggest that the republic is the indispensable tool for building a fairer society. This is our goal for the past twenty-seven years: to lead the social struggle, to bet on social policies. This is the best way to make us republicans: to want to be a society reference in its struggle for civil rights, for social rights; a more just society that guarantees equal opportunities between citizens free. Social policies to make the republic and the republic to build a better society, in addition to differences, but above all, looking at the time we have to build between all of them. This is an inclusive, open, plural project, where we don't care where the people come from, or the idiom I'm talking to with their mother or ideological traditions, but the objective is to work for a better society. And to do so there is only one possible way: the independence of Catalonia, and we must say it loud and clear. It's helping people, solving their problems and working for everyone as we win. And this is what we do with the rest of the motion, with points ranging from 2 to 4, recovering those articles incomprehensiblely, arbitrarily and unjustly annulled by the Constitutional Court: on housing, on equality, on universal healthcare. It is when we are the guarantors of democracy and rights that we are stronger, it is when we are the guarantee of social policies, when we work to stop the growth of inequalities. In short, when we look after the families of this country and guarantee them all equal opportunities. It's when we do this that we're stronger. Do you? We'll win, we'll win. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.309.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Josep Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.310.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, President and members of the Government of the Generality, citizens and citizens of Catalonia to whom this chamber has the mission of serving and obeying, as is my first intervention in the plenary of the Parliament, an emotional record for political prisoners and exiles, persecuted, precisely, to serve and obey those who vote for them. From here, I send them our commitment to fight until they're home and free. Also an acclaim for if someone seems curious about my way of speaking Catalan. It is that the word as I learned to my esteemed island of Eivissa, that "little boci/ of the Catalan land/ that pulls the tramuntana/ and enmig from the Flori sea, as the poet said. After years of practicing as a lawyer, and doing research and university teaching, I can certainly say that today would not be here if more than twenty years ago you haven't read this book. [[The speaker shows the chamber the book Justice in front of the government, by Roberto Gargarella]] , which aroused my interest in political philosophy. I'd say it's, maybe, very current. Obviously, it wouldn't be if you hadn't called me President Puigdemont, at a very exceptional time. But the main reason we're here today is because we're in a process of independence, because we're in the process of founding a republic, if not, there wouldn't be – and some of you, of course, may not be. Just today, on this occasion that we have traded the republican groups in the chamber, we reiterate that we are in an independence process that we were going to start after the Republican victory of 27 September 2015, that we were going to ratify in the 2017 self-determination referendum, and that we were going to revalidate 21 December last. I said first of October, yes, because we have no intention of forgetting or passing the page. Because we need to remember that this Parliament is the continuity of what was dissolved with the state of 155, and that the absolute majority that legally and legitimately ruled this country was confirmed at the polls. They wanted to defeat us in some elections by taking on and sending our leaders to exile, and fearing the people. Someone should think that with 155 it would change the composition of this Parliament, but neither judges nor governments that we have not voted could prevent Catalonia from continuing to the majority of Catalans from voting and voting. Today, by the work and grace of the Constitutional Court, Catalonia does not have a constitution or a statute. It does not have it since the year 2010 to boost the status, a political pact approved for the Parliament, for the Congress of Deputies, and referendum for the people of Catalonia. It was with that political feeling, solemnly rejected for the 86_per_cent– for the 86_per_cent– of this chamber, which became clear this fief of the constitutional pact. They talk about big majorities, don't they? We have now recovered institutions, but we have not yet recovered democracy. We suffer a serious democratic deficit, provoked by the fact that a court is always dedicated to canceling and suspending the vast majority of laws that this Parliament makes. A constitutionally politicized court, in which the PP has twice as many magistrates that deputies have in this Parliament. So they don't have to do a lot of work, Mr. Albiol, do they? But the rest of the magistrates are all PSOE. Therefore, with 15_percent of the deputies hold the cent_percent of the Constitutional Court. And I wouldn't want to be an axifaguitars, but the new Spanish government, assuming that I wanted, couldn't do anything about it, because the PP has armored most of the Constitutional Court until, at least, the year 2022. Do you have any plans to make me change anything, gentlemen of the PSC? It has been a long time since the Constitutional Court interpreted the Constitution and applied it as a straitjacket to Catalonia. No country can accept the rule of justice. In Spain, in turn, the Constitutional Court charged the political system with a lack of respect for the democracy it should defend. They are the origin of the problem and therefore cannot be part of the solution. As President Puigdemont said on his day, "Thank you, Constitutional Court, everything began with you. I can only go over point 2 of the motion that we have dealt with to see that the only thing they have in common are suspicions and annulments for the court the last few years is the fact that they have approved this Parliament. It is the same if they are of effective equality, of fraking, of climate change, of tax on banking entities, of housing emergency or of poor energy. And yet some are asking why we want to become an independent state? Because we're two different countries, we think different and that's why we vote different. For example, in Spain we have passed from governments on the fifth party to electoral support in Catalonia, to governments on the fourth party to electoral support in Catalonia. For this reason, they vote, they think what they think legitimately, of course we must agree that more than a conflict of legality, here there is an authentic democratic conflict: in Catalonia we are not governed by popular will. We are at a key point in history, in which we cannot give up governing ourselves with our own laws. That's all we're here today, to build a republic in which you read about the citizens of the country and you don't have to judge a judge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.311.0	Mr. Costa, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.312.0	From here, all the support for President Torra to negotiate and dialogue with everyone, but we won't fail, we won't give up and we'll get out of it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.313.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.314.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know why lawyers have read an unusual statement in a legislative chamber that advises against dealing with this item on the agenda? For for the lawyers of the chamber, this item on the agenda is absolutely illegal and unconstitutional. Because it is the fault of unconstitutionality that other resolutions have in this Parliament at other times, and for the same reason they have had to be annulled. Therefore, you already have another motive for victimism today – you already have another reason for victimism today. From here, from what we do today, there can be a new resolution from the Constitutional Court, which says that you have voted a new resolution unconstitutionally, and what is worse – and what is worse – again the Bureau of this Parliament is taking on personal responsibilities. Unnecessarily, because you are being dragged back by the CUP. Because Mr Sergi Sabrià is coming out here and he seems to have to apologize that « oysters, yes, we are Republicans of all life, and this has already become old because it is 2015, this resolution, and why... And then Mr. Costa comes out here with these things. Mr. Costa, you're going too... oh, yes, you're here. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr Costa, you are giving democracy lessons to Spain and the Spanish, and to the Constitutional Court, and you are part of a table that is absolutely, deliberately, making illegal resolutions, and preventing Members from having the right to normal sittings and voting within the law. Do you, as a governing body, give lessons to Spanish democracy? [[Greetings.]] Look, do you know what we're going to... what you're going to vote for today? because of course we are not going to give it the procedure following the legal recommendation of the lawyers, and we are not going to vote on a resolution that should not be being dealt with. You are going to vote for Parliament to ratify..., and I say this in Spanish, as my colleague Fer de Páramo has done before, so that Mr Pedro Sánchez can be heard, if you do not say so from here, from this Parliament..., the dialogue in which you have entered with these people who, today, against the counsel, bring this to vote here again; once again independence: « The Parliament confirms its firm will to carry out the necessary actions planned and approved in this Parliament in order to achieve and achieve democratically the independence of Catalonia. Parliament therefore reiterates the objectives of Resolution 1/XI. Are you then going to be surprised that this is contested by the Constitutional Court? Are you going to be surprised after the members of the Bureau, who have led this to vote against the repeated warning of the Constitutional Court, who have already warned that they have a duty to prevent any resolution that re-ratifies the objectives and promotes the objectives that this resolution promotes...? For you..., look, this what we call "the process..., this is a way of calling this coup to democracy that you did, but this coup to democracy has meant many things. It has meant, therefore, the encirclement of judicial commissions; it has meant raising oneself above the cars of the Civil Guard; it has meant encouraging people to go to vote for a referendum that they knew was going to be prevented by the forces and security forces, by the mandate of the judges that you do not respect; it has assumed that the companies of Catalonia will leave – more than four_ thousand– [[remorse of the voice]] It has divided us into Catalan society, it has deeply divided us into families and in the work; it has meant shame for Catalan institutions. All this we call process, has meant a lot of things. People have come to us very worried, crying, confessing that they are crying for this situation. [[Widow's remorse.]] Let them cry, yes, gentlemen. People who think you want to take away their passport and see that you're willing to do anything...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.315.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.316.0	... until you run over the laws. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.317.0	Shut up, everybody.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.318.0	And that creates a lot of mistrust. People who have to collect pensions, who have jobs, who depend on multinational companies that say they want to leave if you continue with this legal instability, people worry, and we worry. And you also do it against the majority of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.319.0	Mr. Carrizosa, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.320.0	Therefore – and I finish now, Mr President – you have no right – you have no right – Mr de Junts per Catalunya, Mr de la CUP and Mr Esquerra Republicana, to worry all Catalans and to impoverish us and divide us as they are doing. Recapacitate. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.321.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. It's Mr. Ferran Pedret's turn. When you want, Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.322.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, the development of the session might not lead to this conclusion, but we may start to go a little bit in this room and in this country when the falcons of each block are dedicated to abrasoning over whatever a little bit is, huh? When the accusations of treason, of being all, of being complacent, or other more frequent formulas, some with more consideration or less, as when Mr. Hernando says that Mr. Pedro Sánchez lowers his pants, or when here someone says that the socialists are the neck of the process, so when there starts to be this, when the hammers of heretges begin to act, maybe it starts to go something good. I don't know if I'm an optimist, I'm sure some on one side and the other side of the bench will think about it, but in any case, it might start to go something good. In any case, we are here, after a serious warning from the press of the chamber, before a motion that, in the band of other contents that I will see if I have time to comment, basically demands that the chamber be repeated in the political objectives of Resolution 1/XI. Beyond the considerations of legal type, which are not minor, it must be borne in mind that Resolution 1/XI_has been annulled and declared unconstitutional and that, therefore, to reiterate its political objectives is something that raises, rather than a doubt, a certainty that it may be contrary to decisions of the Constitutional Court, to us who are interested in identifying it is the political error of the grounds that we believe is at the end of this attempt to reiterate the political objectives of the resolution. Resolution 1/XI, in its policy objectives and in the methods and procedures they intend to employ to implement these objectives, is, let us say, inseparable; the objectives are inseparable from the methods and procedures. And that's why the fact of having adjectived as politicians that first draft of the motion, that it said that the objects are being pursued, does not save the question, because they were political objects all of the motion, and lock in the procedures. Who were these procedures? From the start, from a falsehood, from our point of view, that is the existence of a democratic mandate for independence, obtained from the elections of 27 September 2015. She was lying then, nor is she proven in the 21st of December elections. Because someone said: "No, the country is really out of the walls of this chamber. This can lead us to an interesting debate about direct and representative democracy, but to the country quite apart from the pairs of this chamber, there is no social majority for independence. There is no social majority for independence, there has not been any occasion when there has been a chance to measure it. In the second term, Resolution 1/XI solemnly declares the initiation of a process of creating an independent Catalan state in the form of a republic. It says that Parliament is the expression of a constituent power, it says that this process of disconnection will not be subject to the decisions of the institutions of the State, in particular the Constitutional Court, and it also says that the Government is urged to comply exclusively with the norms or mandates emanating from this chamber, from the Parliament of Catalonia and, therefore, in the background, it is the unilateral way, the fraction of which we have just seen a few months ago. We had yesterday an interesting debate with Mrs. Geis – or the initiator of an interesting debate with Mrs. Geis on this issue – about, let's say, this accession republic that they are going to pursue, and that has not achieved in absolute this adherence, and also about the question of power constitute and the constitution. And it may seem to them that this is a legal technical hair, but it seems strictly political to me. When the debate is being held – we also had it with Congressman Salellas – on power constitute and power constituted, it is never or never seen them take into account that there is that concept which is called power constituted. Or, once exercised, once a constitution, what is there is this power constitutes that to exercise it is done through procedures of reform of the Constitution. It is a procedure that is absolutely necessary. And in our case, moreover, of the Spanish Constitution, as there are no clauses of intangibility, the power of reform, the actuation of power constitute constituted through the power of reform, allows to make a complete reform of the Constitution. The only limit is to follow a procedure; it is to follow a procedure and bring together qualified majorities. And this is as democratic as it has been at the length of the struggle for democracy, at the breadth of the history of the struggle for democracy, limiting the power of the higher; also when the higher is the conjunction of the people and of the citizenry. Because you are part of a conception of democracy that seems to me to be wrong, that is the conception that a certain majority, in a certain parliament, can do everything. And we are the ones who think that the majority in the parliaments – in this, and also in the Spanish Congress, and also in the European Parliament and elsewhere – are limited by procedures and guarantees, that they are for minorities and, therefore, they are for everyone. Therefore, it does not persist in the error of unilaterally imposing a political project on the half of a country that neither flight nor share.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.323.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party. It's Mr. Xavier Garcia Albiol's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.324.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the motion that today is being brought here by the independent parties, we believe that it has two important readings, two aspects that are worth noting. The first, which is not to be repeated, is less important, and is the clear will on the part of the independent parties, the Bureau of Parliament and the Government of Catalonia to insist, to reiterate all those decisions which were adopted in this Parliament in the previous parliamentary term and which caused the greatest social fracture that has experienced our land in the past forty or fifty years. But it's true, it's not a motion or proposal that's only and exclusively aimed at repeating these aspects that I've just cleared up. It is not just a young man who, as we believe, in his spirit who seeks, in which he tries to deepen it is in those aspects which have violated, which have divided, which have separated Catalan society; they have made it from families to groups of friends. It's not just that, this repetition, but that we're talking, most likely, about an aspect that at these times and at these heights of the political moment that we're living, both in Catalonia and the rest of Spain, has an appreciation, has an important significance. And I'm talking about this young man that the independence parties are going to approve today, huh? , this is the one that really represents, the one that really has as much value at these moments, is that it is the presentation letter of Mr. Torra before Mr. Pedro Sánchez, President of the Government, at the meeting of his own dilluns. While the Government of Spain is yielding in a totally unjustifiable way, with measures that are not logical in the reaction that at these times still maintain the independenceist parties, before this attitude of wanting to please the Government of Spain to independence, the response of independence to Mr. Pedro Sánchez is this motion that you bring us to approve. And this is the fact that we would like to put more value today at these times. Therefore, it is clear that for the reasons – and I conclude – that in his day, at the length of the previous term of office, we have already expressed and that I have just told you, we will obviously not support or participate in this motion, which, as the legal services have rightly said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.325.0	Mr Albiol, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.326.0	...is outside the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.327.0	Thank you. It's the turn now, to position itself in relation to the reviews, again, of Mr. Vidal Aragonese, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.328.0	Mr President, before we intervened in the second part of the debate or the content of the interventions, we wanted to make a point of order, or subsidarily that we could hear as a protest in relation to the criteria established by the President, from the time of our intervention. Without any tension; there..., to generalize practically that we always present our questions to strain, it is not the case, but we try to convey who are the more than our doubts about the issue. It gives us time to intervene two minutes and a half, for which it makes this young man. This is the origin of this motion, in an inquiry, which, at one time, the two groups that we are part of the Joint Group, each of the plenary, in one group we have right and in the other group we have right. And, therefore, we understand that in the current plethora, the one that is moved... let's finish, Mr President, then you can explain... let's finish.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.329.0	I'm sorry, I didn't give it to you, but to other parallel debates. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.330.0	Thank you – thank you. I'll just leave it to you. In this House, where we are moving the motion, but with the origin of the inquiry, we should have right – right – as long as it has a group. And let's explain. We imagine that the criteria that are being used is to understand that as the People's Party also intervenes in this Plenary, time must be cut to half; but if this were the criteria, they would have a double penalty, the two subgroups that we are in the Mixed Group, because the inquiry and subsequent motion is reduced by a 50_per_cent, and will return to reduce another time by a 50_per_cent the time we make the motion. Therefore, because the Bureau can raise itself, or the President, another criterion, which consists of the question of order, or subsidarily as a protest to which we believe that it is an interpretative criterion that corresponds to the one marked by the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.331.0	Mr. Aragonese, reading discrepancy that in fa. And without controversy here – in any case, we will talk, obviously, to the Bureau – about five minutes like the Mixed Group, and in this case two and a half minutes as a subgroup, because, indeed, the other parliamentary subgroup also intervened in the debate with the two minutes and a half correspondents. In fact, in the context of the position of the papers, which are these two minutes that you have not used and that I understand that you will now use, these two minutes that correspond to a group are stuck to you, but in this case it is a position that respects the initiative of the young person. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. It is a position in relation to the motion, which is the initiative of its subgroup. Therefore, as in the rest of the Chamber's debates, the rest of the debates that are a fan of Parliament, to you as a subgroup they correspond half the time assigned to the groups; also to the motions. In any case, it is a debate that we will obviously not have here now, that we can talk about it to the Bureau and we can continue to debate the criteria, but I am already advancing it and I insist that I disagree with the position or the position that you reflected. In any case, you have these two minutes to position yourself on the exams. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.332.0	Rest very quickly not only on the exams, but also on the interventions. We tried to make a deal, even though you weren't... with the Catalonian Group in Comú Podemos, a quarter of our arrangements for this young man. They will probably vote for it, but we still don't understand why they don't vote for point 2 and point 3 of this motion. They tell us we're looking too far back, and they tell us not to repeat the mistakes of the past. And what we're saying is that what we don't want to repeat is the mistakes of the '78. Exactly these mistakes of the past are the ones that we do not want to repeat and that we are looking forward; no forward, like building a country with more social equality. We also obviously appreciate the deal that has been made, both for the Republican Group and for the Junta Group for Catalonia, but in the intervention of the Republican Group we have heard about symbolic gestures. We would not like to hear these expressions again, because they are not part of the will of the motion that we are approving. And, at the same time, that if there is a desire to move forward, that we do not have any substrains, as we had this morning in the city of Barcelona, and that they are part of a certain policy. For what you do to the Group of Joints for Cat, so look, if you are so clear, so clear that the Constitutional Court will not change, you will find, the week you see, with a Spanish government, that what will be dialegous is the transformation of the monologue; of the monologue that we hear over the last few years and that will not give an answer, absolutely no answer, to the petitions that are being made by the majority of the people of Catalonia over the last few years. Respect for the Ciutadans Group. Today we have set out actions on a total of fifty-four standards; fifty-four standards that act on the living conditions of the people of this country. The time you used in your intervention for these fifty-four standards was zero, not a_second – not a_second. The Socialist Group is talking about a majority of Members, a permanent majority, two thirds. But, look, we give them with all sincerity, you'll tell us right now that if there's a day we have two thirds for independence they'll accept independence? I don't think so either. That's the problem for you. And last, in relation to the People's Group. Fracture? So look, there is a social fracture, and who suffers from it above all is 20_percent of Catalans and Catalans who are fighting the poor; this is the authentic social fracture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.333.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez asks to speak.]] Tell me, Mrs. Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.334.0	We ask for separate votes by points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.335.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.336.0	All of it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.337.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-05-1302.338.0	All right. [[Pause.]] As it has been demanded that all points be voted separately, they do not require any more separate voting request and we shall vote separately all and each of the points of this motion. We'll start the vote with point 1. The vote begins. This point was approved by 68 votes to 8, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote point two. The subpoints understand that no, that's can vote the whole point, huh? Point 2. The vote begins. This was approved by 69 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. And now we're going to vote number three. The vote begins. This was approved by 69 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 4 and after this young man. The vote begins. This point was approved by 77 votes to none, with no abstentions. There is no point in dealing with the order of the day, the session rises. Thank you very much.
