ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.1.0	Good morning. Deputies, deputies, members of the Government, good morning, the session begins. Before starting the order of the day, I must say that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, I remember the voting delegations presented. In this case, of the deputies Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva and Najat Driouech, who have delegated their vote to Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group ; and of the deputies Carles Puigdemont, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull and Jordi Sánchez, who have delegated their vote to Mr Albert Batet, spokesman of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Composition of the Bureau of Parliament]] [[398-00001/12]] Let's start, then, with the order of the day. The first point, as agreed to by the Board of Spokespersons, is the election of the fourth secretary or the fourth secretary of the Bureau of Parliament, after the resignation of the Vergés Counsellor, who was the fourth secretary of this Bureau. Therefore, we must proceed to the vote of this secretary or secretary. They know that it is..., the election of this place to the Bureau is in agreement with Rule 43.2 of the Rules; it is to say, by means of papers to be delivered to the Bureau so that they are placed in the ballot box prepared for this purpose. According to Article 44.3 of the Rules of Procedure, each Member must write a name to the paper and the person who obtains a majority of votes will be elected or elected. They shall consider null and void unreadable papers containing a name higher than the requirement or names relating to persons who are not members of the Parliament. Papers without written indication will consider blank votes. I remind the House that the members of the Government who are parliamentarians and the members of the Bureau will vote at the end. In any case, we shall now proceed to the vote, but before leaving me, on behalf of the Bureau and on behalf of my staff, to thank the services of the Vergés Counsellor as the fourth secretary of the Bureau. They've been a few months, but very intense. Thank you very much, secretary. I am convinced that this is an approach that we all share with the members of the Bureau, thanks for making it a lot easier for us to work and for their dedication. Many thanks, Counselor Vergés. Let us now proceed to the vote. We're going to have to extrude... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] We're calling it a vote. The number that came out is fifty-night, which corresponds to Congresswoman Gemma Geis. So, they start voting... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Fifty-night, isn't it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Sorry, Rosa Maria Ibarra; fifty-fourth correspondence to Rosa Maria Ibarra. So, let's start from here. Anyway, we're calling for a vote. [[According to Rule 99.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The Members who are members of the Government and who are members of the Education Bureau are called to the end. It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] All right. Once the count was made, the final result of the vote was the following: Mrs. Adriana Delgado and Herreros got 63 votes, 69 votes blank and no. Thus, the fourth secretary was elected by 63 votes in favour, Mrs. Adriana Delgado and Herreros, who were asked to take her place at the Bureau. [[Greetings.]] [[Communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions]] Well, we're still on the order of the day. The second point is the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. As you know, the 31st May propagate was made up of legislative commissions and specific commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules, once elected in the months of the commissions, its composition must be communicated to the Plenary. The current composition of the months of the committees has been published in the Official Butllet of Parliament, and is also included in the file of the plenary, which has been distributed to all Members and Members. I say to them, therefore, that I should get away from their reading. All right. So complete the rule 49.2 rule, let's move on to the next point of the order of the day. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality before Parliament to account for the structure and composition of the Government]] [[350-00001/12]] The third point is the appearance of the President of the Generality before Parliament to account for the structure and composition of the Government. In accordance with Rule 172 of the Rules of Procedure, and in so far as the President of the Generality has requested to appear before the plenary of the Parliament, to account for the structure and composition of the Government, the President of the Generality, the very honorable Joaquim Torra and Pla, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.2.0	President Torrent, deputies and deputies, lords and lords, very good morning to everyone. Counselors, advisors, thanks; today I feel very well accompanied. I compare before this chamber, where the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia resides, at their own request, to explain the structure and composition of the Government, once the appointments have been published in the Official Gazette of the Generality and the advisers and advisers have taken possession of the charge. Let me, though, remember how we got here. This is not the government that legitimately ruled the country and gave the city the first of October. The illegal application of Article 155 expelled him from the Catalan institutions. This is the government that came out of the institutions on 155, just the opposite, and working for the mandate to reject the citizenry in the past elections, and naturally with the result of the self-determination referendum of '1 October. And so we will. Look, President Puigdemont took possession of the car one Tuesday, and the next said did his government two days later. I myself took possession of a saying, and my government a disbanded. Two days later? No, two weeks and two days later. The PP Government, with its refusal to publish the Decree of 19 May, appointing the Vice-President of the Government and the advisers and advisers of the departments of the Generalitat, violated the political rights, once more, of the President of the Generalitat and acted with obvious arbitrariness and without legal employment. A Spanish state that has vetoed people with its political rights intact, and that has wanted to correct from a Madrid outpost that the citizenry has voted in the street. That's why I filed a prevarication suit against the former President of the Spanish Government, Mariano Rajoy, and Vice President Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría. There have been seven months of intervention by the Government of the Generality that have put up with a good share of the activity in our country. It is true that it has continued to function in an ordinary way, but there has been a lack of political impulses of great measures. This Sunday and Tuesday, our members of the government have made the transfer of mail to prison and exile, and have visited their councils. And in these first contacts with the departments, public workers have explained to them some of the concrete impacts of the application of Article 155; an impact that should be of concern to any democrat: legal indefensity, denied subsidies, up-to-date dispatches, encouragement of processes and increased bureaucracy, a constant doubt of any initiative. This has caused a damage to public services that we can't miss and that we won't miss. For this reason, the Government will create the commission for the deployment of self-government, to assess the real impact of the application of Article 155 and to guarantee and deploy the self-government of Catalonia; a self-government that the Spanish State wants to constantly laminate – we will not tire of denouncing it every time. As I announced in the investiture debate, the commission will be in charge of creating a shoc plan to assess and repair the effects of the Article 155 application. Mr Enric Millo said: "With Article 155, Catalonia works better. That's a lie. They may not want to ever govern Catalonia – and this is another issue – but what is certain is that Article 155_has been harmful to our interests. And to put it this way: the public services have not worked better, nor have they worked normally, but if they have worked well and the essential public services have not been affected, they have been thanks to the public servers, the administration workers, who, day by day, have wanted to keep alive the dignity and the good service of our institution. We won't stop thanking public servers. And I do it here publicly, one more time: thank you very much. But not only have public institutions been affected. People and entities have also experienced a loss of rights and a persecution that unfortunately reminds us of past times. That's why we're creating the Civil and Political Rights Office, which, in close coordination with the Greuges Synod, has the objective of ignoring the violation of rights that need to be respected. We cannot tolerate any person having to bear that his rights are being violated, that is, freedom of expression, that is, freedom of assembly, that is, freedom of demonstration. Let me say, in order to finish this block, that one of the first actions of the Government in its past meeting of disbandment, has been to re-create the Office of the President and the Office of the Vice President, suppressed, combined, for 155, and which means recovering in dignity, but also for his vocation as public service. As we must have seen, along these days we members of the government and I have set ourselves a commitment to maintain a fluid and regular dialogue with the former government, with periodic visits to prisons and exile. We can't normalize, and we won't, a situation like this. Besides, we can't afford to lose the valuable experience we've gained over the years. A novelty that prides us is the configuration of a joint government. If we have seven councillors and six councillors in the government, we have six men and seven women in the general secretaries of the departments. Betrayal is a challenge and it's an obligation in which we have to keep moving forward. Gender policies are one of the priorities of the Government of the Generality. We need to intensify the deployment of Law 17/2015, effective equality of women and men. All government action must be permeated by the gender perspective, with a feminist orientation for each action. With the publication of Decree 1/2018, of May 19, of creation, denomination and determination of the field of competence of the departments of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia, the fields of competence of the departments have been fixed, with the aim of improving the coordination and effectiveness of public policies that the Government of Catalonia promotes. This decree is, in concrete terms, what I am referring to today's intervention. As you all know, on the very day of each of the councillors, in the field of the respective commissions, he will expose his government program and debate it with the deputies of this chamber. As you may know, I kept the name of departments that were in the previous legislature, thirteen. We want to maintain the continuity of the arrival and the work done for our predecessors. Next, I go on to detail the most significant organizational changes and with their permission, starting with those departments with competing variations. The Department of Presidency, as it could not be otherwise, maintained its leadership in cross-cutting and coordination between departments. One of its first priorities will be the approval of the Governance Platform, which will mark the strategic lines that will be carried out in this legislature and that, among others, will be to recover the laws that have been suspended for the Constitutional Court and to restart a significant part of the social policies that have been promoted during the last legislature and that we now want to recover, because they are the social rights the engine of the republic's change. As a novelty in the departmental structure, we can highlight, to the band of the commission that I have commented to you before, the incorporation of cooperation with the local administration of Catalonia. I have already advanced them the import of the local world in the republican values and in the action that this government wants to carry out. In this sense, one of the ways of republican action is, in the sense of doubt, together with the Government of the Generality and the Parliament, the role of the assemblies, and also the creation of the Assembly of Elected Carrecs. The government wants to lead, together with the local world and the municipalist entities, the strengthening of the dialogue and alliance between public administrations to the service of modernization and the better of the service of the citizen. The government wants to treat the strategy in relation to metropolitan Barcelona at the service of the country's conjunction and its international projection. Social cohesion and territorial cohesion go together, it is mutually reinforcing. That's why the government will age, from the very near, because the municipalities find the momentum of their projects of economic sustainability and social progress. The government will defend local autonomy at the highest level before any recent state threat. Let them know, mayors and governors of this country, that the government will always be at their side. The Department of Economics and History is part of the Vice-Presidentship of the Government. The lifting of Article 155 will also imply the lifting of the financial intervention imposed by this Article. We ask that it be possible, too, to the specific conditions for Catalonia imposed on November 2015 by FLA parties. This rise must allow the proper functioning of public services and the reduction of the bureaucratic charges imposed so far, as Vice-President Pere Aragonès explained these days. We will boost environmental taxation, efficiency in tax management, and we will continue to work for a fiscally fairer company that fights tax fraud and responds to the country's changing needs and challenges. The Department of Economy and History, which also has a cross-sectional view, incorporates as a novelty the Area of Citizen Care, Information and Dissemination of the activity of the Government of the Generality, the coordination and direction of the information systems, management and corporate communication of the Generality. It also assumes, Vice-President, the implementation of the best in the public contract, with the objective, among others, of continuing to facilitate access to the pepper, to the public contract; to promote innovative public purchase, and to continue applying transparency, simplification and efficiency measures. The Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency will aim to guarantee, strengthen and expand the presence, recognition and dignity of Catalonia in its institutions in Europe and the world. It is essential to continue to strengthen Catalonia's involvement in the various multilateral organisations. The department set aside the last legislature, the law of the Catalan community abroad, which allowed the Catalan register to be improved abroad and to recognize the rights and rights of persons residing outside the home. With the new structure, this department includes the assumption of competences in the field of electoral processes, assuming that it groups the competences related to the different ways of exercising civic participation, directly, representative and deliberative in a single entity, with the advantages that this implies from a strategic and operational point of view. For what it does to the Department of Territory and Sustainability, it highlights the incorporation of housing policies, as had already been in previous legislatures. An important part of the population of Catalonia, despite the incipient economic recovery, still suffers the consequences of the crisis of the past years, and the mass often in a devastating way. The difficulty in accessing housing, the problems in paying loggers and mortgages, the denunciations or occupations are some of the phenomena that are maintained and have seized strength these past years. This situation requires greater coordination between territories, public administrations and social agents. It is important, therefore, to develop an integrated strategy that brings coherence to the mix of sectoral policies and that allows actions to be as effective and coherent as possible. We recognize housing as the centre of citizens' lives and the starting point of their dignity and their integration into society. For this reason, with the integration of territorial policies we can act in full before the lack of public park, before the difficulty of access to the market of housing and before the emergence of denunciations. For its band, the Department of Justice incorporates as a novelty the competences of religious matters, as well as the regulation and supervision of interest groups, which is one of the government's most important transparency tools. In this way, under a single public direction, the register competitions of religious entities and the competitions directly linked to the institutional relationship of the Government are unified. The democratic memory and the encouragement of the pau are also incorporated. The policies of democratic memory, also referred to as historical memory, involve a cross-sectional view that goes beyond the purely historiographical relation, because they affect the most basic human rights, such as the search for truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. There is no memory without justice and there is no justice without reparation. These basic rights have a very clear fit in the framework of the department competent in justice; proof of this is that in various European governments memory policies are closely related to the competences of justice. So, we think, it is possible to treat comprehensively the protection of human rights. With the will to join forces we have created, from the reformulation of the Department of Governance, the Department of Digital Policies and Public Administration. The merger of these two important areas of the country – information and communication technologies, ICT, and public administration – is a statement of intent to enhance the public server's image with the benefits, power and benefits of digital technology. And now we want to take one more step, one more step: we want the Public Administration to lead and implement the digital technologies in it, transforming it into a more effective administration that defends the rights to which citizens have access. From eGovernment, big data, open government, mobile and smart technologies, among others, we will make it a true quality digital policy. And an advanced government must also have an advanced public function; I know we have it, but we want to strengthen it and put it at the level of the leading countries in the matter. That's why we'll push Catalonia's School of Public Administration as the modernization tool of our Administration. As you must have seen, these six departments that I explained to you have seen their competitive structure modified to improve global functioning and seek synergies that they might not have before. The remaining seven departments, if they do not present, at hours of the day, substantial changes, although they could have variations in their own structural decrees and will work to exercise their skills fully and maximize the value of public service. But I would like to make one point: a paradigmatic example is the Department of Interior, one of the departments most affected by the application of 155, and politicized, not for the Catalan government, but for the Spanish government. We will work to restore the normality and the full exercise of the skills on the side of technical teams, emergence and security at the service of the country, the institutions and the citizens of Catalonia. And I also take this opportunity to evaluate the excellent task for the members of the Squad Squad Squad and their commands. Let's leave it to the professionals to exercise their profession. The Department of Education, which is also and has been in the spotlight of the Spanish State, is and will continue to feel the only educational authority in Catalonia. It's got to be that way. It's the key piece in the country project, because we want a country that trains competent and critical citizens in a democratic society; it's maybe the most important republic value. There is only one thing we must value more in this country than our own schools, which are the masters of our schools; let them know, all the masters of Catalonia, that this government will always be at their side at all times. We want a quality education, that you want because all the students sunny up the education success, an education compromised with fairness and without any discrimination. It will, I know, be a department oriented towards implementing educational policies of social inclusion and cohesion. The Department of Health has seen as one of its reasons to be – providing a system of salvation for everyone, for everyone who lives in Catalonia – has been brought to court and suspended. Within a week, the High Court of Justice has dropped the order that guarantees universal salvation since 2015, and the law that shielded it has been appealed to the Constitutional Court. We are aware, Members and Members of this House – all Members and Members of this House – of what does this mean? Are we aware that this law did not benefit some or others, but that it benefited the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans? That is why we remain committed to ensuring health care for everyone, and we will enhance the dialogue with industry professionals to identify their needs. We must continue to strengthen the health system, in collaboration and constant coordination with the sector, as we will continue to strengthen research, innovation and equality policies. We will also continue to drive the Comprehensive Plan for the better of health care waiting lists, to reduce the waiting time for diagnosis and treatment, with the involvement, collaboration, debate of health professionals in their management. The Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families maintained their competitions. It's one of the most important departments of this government. And one of the main objectives of this legislature will be the creation of quality employment. We will continue to advance in the deployment of guaranteed citizenship income, with the creation of the government commission. We will work to ensure a quality envelope for the great people, the best of the child protection system, as well as the deployment of the Catalan model of gathering and shelter, and the model of care and promotion of personal autonomy and disability. We will recover the Law guaranteeing the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenderes and intersexuals to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia. This is, in the sense of doubt, a department that has in front of some of the objects more than we have proposed, because we want to build a republic full of contents. Welfare, social rights, civil rights, economic dynamism, demand a system of opportunities and guarantees for everyone. All these things are the country project that we have already begun to do, they are the engine of change that must transform us into a country that is designed and dedicated to people, where people are the center of public action; that they are the center of politics. As institutions and the economy are at their service, and the mass often – often always – goes backwards, it is the people who are at the service of the economy and the institutions. We have to change it. Our republic must fully grasp this paradigm. From the Department of Culture we will work for an equal access and equity to culture, aware that it is, culture, a true pillar of the welfare state; essential to fulfill the need for social cohesion. We will increase the requirement to sleep with the most advanced European countries; to deploy the National Book and Reading Platform; to promote the project of a single library book; the reactivation of the audiovisual digital channel, suspected by the Constitutional Court, or the defense of a super-reduced cultural VAT. Culture is also the foundation of freedom, because there is no freedom without culture or culture without freedom. When Montserrat Roig said – in a phrase we quote too often, and we should not find another – culture is the most revolutionary political option in the long run – but it is so good! - What does that mean? It means that investing in culture is investing in a more democratic, fairer, freer society. This government will never lose sight of me. And the phrase of the King, this admirable woman that we must never stop reading – that we have never stopped reading – will be written at the frontispiece of the Palau de la Generalitat. Yes, because culture is the end of freedom. For its band, the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge aims to address some of the great challenges of the economy of the future in concert with all sectors. That is why we will continue to deploy the National Pact for Industry, to respond to challenges such as globalisation, technological advances and industrial change. We want to equip ourselves with a national pact for energy transition to place the city at the centre of the energy model. In all departments, the city is the center of this government's policies; also in the corporate department. And we will work towards consensus on the National Pact for the University with the aim of enhancing the university system, which has proved to be one of the potentials we have for knowledge. And, finally, a key piece in the defense and protection of the territory, perhaps one of the departments that I particularly esteem, the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, department of our pages and of our fishermen, that will age for a strong primary sector, that values all its work and that helps to bring the product to the consumer regions, with the aim of enhancing the consumption of local products, of proximity and quality. We are a country that produces quality and can continue in this direction. We will promote a law of agricultural and primary sector development to preserve high agricultural value areas; we will promote the National Bioeconomy Pact, which will promote an efficient use of all natural resources; and we will promote an internationalisation plan for the agri-food sector to internationalize the Catalan primary sector and its products. Finally, we will promote a maritime policy of a country that will definitively develop the potential of the bad economy and that will claim the Catalan maritime space as a generator of growth of the primary sector. As you see, we're setting up an organization to give a good service and a good government to all the citizens of this country. I also suggest that we prepare the basic structural decrees, which are the instruments that describe in the most detail the departmental operations and the functions of each of the organizational units that conform to them. Yesterday we approved – certainly, World Environment Day – that the plastic blisters of a sun no longer work in the whole field of Administration, therefore, authorized. I am pleased that Parliament is moving forward and that you have been using glasses for quite some time. In the last few days I have visited political prisoners locked up in the prisons of Extremera, Alcalá Meco, as well as Soto del Real, where the two social leaders of the independence movement are locked up more strongly. Their situation is an outrage for Spanish politics and the value of democracy. We will not normalize the country's political crisis situation until all political prisoners and exiles are at home. I repeated it one more time today: our vital goal as the government is its return to freedom. Calen solutions, we need to take risks, we need to talk and we need to negotiate. I hope that Mr. Pedro Sánchez's new Spanish government will come to deal urgently with the question of Catalonia. We have made a democratic and peaceful path, we have never come out of a democratic and peaceful path. The Spanish State cannot say the same. But we don't expect anyone to give up their political, legitimate goals. We do not pretend that those who think that keeping Catalonia under Spanish is their choice or their best way of hearing the future of the country; it is legitimate, it would only be lacking, whenever they do so for peaceful and democratic lives. But the performance of the first October was neither peaceful nor democratic, as neither the subsequent judicial proceedings nor the 155th coup d'état against the Government of Catalonia were. We don't ask anyone who's made to dialogue. We don't intend to negotiate with someone who's already won. What would it be like to negotiate, if it were all decided then? Who else can negotiate with is who is more than one's convictions. It's true that it's brave, it's true that it has to take risks to negotiate with who's the most out there. But we didn't come to store the head under the wing. The effort of the dialog is valued between opposing parts. These days I felt the opposition spokesmen demanding that we rectify, that we give up our political objectives in order to be able to dialogue. If you ask that, that's what you don't want to talk about. Because, if they look at all the polls once and for all, they could see that instead of the world where there have been conflicts there has been a demand for surrender as a condition for dialogue. Look, I'm telling you right now, 'cause I'm telling you, we're on. Democracy will not yield, the yearning for freedom will not yield, a society that seeks a better future for its children and for the most vulnerable will not yield. We didn't come here to surrender, it's not our starting point for negotiation. We've come to build what we think is better for everyone and, even though they don't like to feel it, we think it's better for Spanish society as well. And I will still remember another thing: after the first of October and all the brutal repression that came after, the citizens of this country gave a parliamentary majority to the defenders of the republic. Today this government is a government that stands out of the ballot box, ratified on the 21st of December, it is a government that defends the republic. This should be a good condition for the dialect: respect for the vote and the democratic will of the people. For my part, on the part of this Government, on the part of each of the members of this Government, the predisposition to the dialog will never fail. Mirin, these first days of the legislature, so turbulent, I have had the opportunity to intervene in the opening of the days of the Circle of Economy in Sitges; I have visited a camp of immigrants to the Raval; I have been able to attend the delivery of the guardians of the Català de l'Any; I have visited Berga, Girona, Vilafranca, Lleida, Sant Pere de Ribes and La Cerdanya, and yesterday we delivered the prizes with the motto of the World Environment Day. I also met with the presidents of the Catalan parliaments and with the heavyweight syndicate, and the announcement that this very week I will start the round of meetings and contacts with the leaders of the groups of this chamber, and starting, naturally, with the leader of the opposition group. In all these acts, I have had people with very diverse profiles and various concerns: from multinational entrepreneurs to people without papers, from politicians to researchers, from food lovers to nature activists. Everyone, all of them, has a common element: they want a better country, they want a state of well-being with guarantees, they want to live knowing that we work tirelessly for a future more for everyone, and more free, and radically democratic. If I don't make this date, it wouldn't be me. In a speech addressed to the Members of the Commonwealth, in 1917, Enric Prat de la Riba, re-elected to the presidency, said: "To become in front of the newer is to be strengthened, to grow up, to be qualified to hold the place that is nearby. And it is with this compromise that we have formed the Government, to ensure the proper functioning of social services and to always act with rigour and transparency in the service of society. We have made a government that must also make the path of restitution to the constitution, to the Catalan constitution project; a government with a republican and democratic mandate that we must fulfil, because it is the mandate of the first October, the mandate brought to Parliament on 27 of that month in a political declaration of independence, and a mandate ratified for the polls of 21 December. The citizens of this country deserve a government that governments serve the welfare, opportunities and progress of everyone. This government, and the republic we're building, won't ask anyone what they voted for or what they feel, who they speak of, or where they came from or their parents. It's been many years since independence asked about all this. This government wants a country where everyone feels at home, because it's home. The government, as Prat de la Riba would say today, wants the country to be the place that it is approaching, that is, the place that its citizens, democratically, decide. It is clear that it will not be easy, that nothing will not be easy, that a few moments like this, of complexity, has lived our country. But our commitment, the commitment of each of the members of this government, is to offer the best of us; the greatest effort to build, without failing, without a step in the right direction, the future in freedom that we deserve. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.3.0	Thank you, President. Now she has the word, for a period of two minutes, Mrs. Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.4.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Generalitat, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are before the presentation of the Government. We don't have much time to do all the assessment we'd like, just ten_minutes, but in any case I'm going to start by saying that on a personal level I wish you the best in your new positions, but on a political level we're going to analyze what you're here for, who you are and, above all – above all – what you're going to do in the coming months. Why are you here, the Government of the Generalitat? You, basically, are here to repeat mistakes – repeat mistakes –, the mistakes that have brought us here and that have caused the social fracture, that have caused the flight of companies, the unprecedented institutional crisis in Catalonia. All that you don't do anything self-critical, that you're very proud of and get your chest out, you're here to repeat it. And you don't hide, you have to recognize it, you don't hide it, you say it: "We're going to recover the laws that were suspended, we're going to do what Mr. Puigdemont did, we're not going to rule out unilaterality again, as Mrs. Artadi said – and she's also nosing with her head, she, very convinced, yes, yes... You're going to violate the rights of Catalans again! Do you remember the 6th and 7th of September here, when you, with seventy - two seats in a parliament like Catalonia, dynamite the Statute of Autonomy and the Spanish Constitution? You want to do the same. You, who have caused the social fracture, want to do the same again. You, who have caused an unprecedented institutional crisis, want to do the same again. You, who have caused the flight of four thousand companies, are willing to do the same. Who are they, who are the members of the Government? For starters, it must be said that many of the advisors who are here, according to Mr. Torra, should not be here, because he wanted a government with more defendants than women – more defendants than women. [[Greetings.]] And you come here to talk about feminism, which I had designed – I don't know if you or Puigdemont, but you had given him the approval, I suppose – a government with more defendants than women? Are you really coming here to teach feminism lessons? Don't tell me that, Mr. Torra. Besides, what are the profiles? Let's see, who is the president of the Generalitat? The President of the Generalitat already knows who he is, Mr Torra; we already know what he thinks, and then, when deciding who he chooses from advisers or advisers, I suppose he will do so in his own image and likeness. What does Mr. Torra think of the Spaniards? Well, Mr. Torra says in text that the Spaniards only know how to spoil. To whom does Mr. Torra – or Mr. Puigdemont – choose, but who does Mr. Torra agree with – to advise on economics? Well, to a gentleman campaigning that Spain is stealing from us. All right. You look a lot like that, Mr. Aragonès, don't you? « Spain steals from us, the Spaniards only know how to spoil. Who do I put in charge of Economics? Well, a man from Spain steals from us. All right. [[Widow's remorse.]] What does Mr. Torra think of language, culture? Mr. Torra thinks it's not natural to speak Spanish in Catalonia. I guess for you I'm doing something very strange, a very unnatural thing right now, which is speaking Spanish in Catalonia; it's left it in writing. You consider Catalans to be one thing and the Spaniards who live with us here are another. In his articles, yes, yes, literally: "Spanish people who see with us. You, what do you think? You consider it necessary to make a tribute, to organize a tribute to a gentleman, Mr Cardona, who said that Vic's skulls will never be the same as the skulls of Avila's people, man, please, where it will stop! To whom does this gentleman choose to serve as a Culture Counselor? For to a lady who says publicly that one thing is Catalan and another thing is Spanish born in Catalonia. I don't know what Mrs. Borràs will consider to be me, who was no longer born in Catalonia; I don't know what class, in which caste you will place me in those mental castes that I am sure has been made among the population of Catalonia. What does Mrs. Borràs think of the tongue? Mrs Borràs signed the Koiné Manifesto, the Koiné Manifesto which says that the only official language in Catalonia has to be Catalan and that the Spanish speakers who came from other parts of Spain made linguistic colonization. You are calling 'Colonents to millions of Catalans, Mrs Borràs.' And on top of that, I don't know..., he laughs, he likes it. In addition, this very week you have ratified: "Yes, yes, yes, Catalonia has undergone a process of colonization. This week; not three years ago, no, this week. And besides, Mrs Borràs, of Culture, I don't know if you know that for many, many decades and centuries, in Catalonia, the main language in which books were published was Spanish. When exactly did the colonization process begin, Mrs Borràs? [[Widow's remorse.]] When, at what time? [[Greetings.]] In the 16th century, when more books were made in Spanish in Barcelona than in Catalan, did it begin there? What a long life the Francoists have had for you! You're right, aren't you? Anyway. Mr. Torra, what do you think of what government priorities are? Mr. Torra said: "I have decided that from now on I am only interested in the independence of my country. Since you are only interested in independence, who have you chosen to be a Health Advisor? To Mrs Vergés – who I don't see right now, but who is here – who was the president of the Health Commission and who closed it, she was stoned to death in July last year. [[Greetings.]] That, yes, this lady we are going to put at the head of the Generalitat ; that, since she is not very interested in health, because she closed the commission in July, while here there were full of what you are interested in, because we are going to put the one as Health Adviser. But, above all, for whom are you here? Who are you talking to? To those who carry a yellow bond, unique and exclusively; only to those of the bond. You are the government of the loop, only for those of the loop. And that can never be a government of the Generalitat. Moreover, they are not cut off; Mr. Torra said the other day: "No, the symbol of the Government of the Generalitat is the yellow link. Ah! The shield of the Generalitat, that no; that which represents us all, that in which we are all represented, no, that no: the yellow bond. By the way, you refer to plastic, the truth is that I share this concern with you, but it does not pollute the yellow plastic with which you fill roads, squares, gates...! [[Greetings.]] Yeah... start by eliminating that plastic, which is also very polluting, start by eliminating that one. And I totally agree with the issue of bottles, don't I? What's going on? I ask you a question, Mr. Torra. What's the matter, that those of us who don't wear yellow ties don't pay taxes? Aren't we worthy of a government that represents us? You have replaced the logo, the coat of arms of the Generalitat, with a political symbol representing only part of the population. Do you realize the barbarity you are doing? And you come here to say that it is a government of all? No, it's a bond government for those who wear a bond. That's what you are. And I'll tell you one thing. You have made an appeal to the round of contacts that you are going to start, I tell you that I am pleased to be able to talk to you, I have many things to say to you, but I ask you one thing: you remove the banner with the yellow ribbon from the facade of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Do you really want to talk to us? Do you want to talk to those who represent 1,100,000 Catalans? Do you want to talk to those who are representatives of those who do not have yellow ties? Prove it. Remove from the facade of the Generalitat de Catalunya a symbol that is only for those of the loop. Do you really want to talk? Do it – do it. It's very easy. If you want to prove that you are also addressing those who do not wear a bow, remove the bow from the facade of the Generalitat de Catalunya. It's just that it's very simple to understand, Mr. Torra. Those of us who don't have ties, we also pay taxes, we also pay his salary. Those who have no ties also deserve a government that represents them. Do it – do it –, it will be a small gesture, and then, if you happen, then stop saying that you're going to jump again with the laws, that you're going to repeat mistakes again. By the way, stop saying that you will replace this Parliament. You want to replace this Parliament with an elected assembly where there will only be independenceists. Stop attacking the Catalan institutions, the shield of all, the Parliament of all. Stop saying you're going to make an executive council where there's going to be no parliamentary control, because that's attacking the Government of the Generalitat. Stop saying that the President of the Generalitat is really Mr Puigdemont, that he has not been elected in this Chamber in accordance with the rules of this Chamber and that he cannot be subject to parliamentary control. Stop attacking the Catalan institutions, stop replacing them with others: by the assembly in which you are alone, by the symbol that only represents you... Do it. And I say to you, what are you going to do in the coming months? Two things, basically: victimism and confrontation. Victimism: all the fault of everything bad is Spain, the Government of Spain and 155. If there is a good thing in these months... : « Do you see how the process does not affect the economy? If there is a bad data... : « 155. I can already summarise what you are going to say over the next few months: victimism of 155. A commission to see how much corruption there has been in Catalonia, how many administrative duplications, how many plugs that don't have the requirements to be..., well, have a position in the Generalitat? Not that, that's not going to be investigated. We're going to investigate 155. All right. And then, confrontation. You're going to go into shock, because you have nothing else. He has not made self-criticism: all you have done is very well, there is no problem arising from the process, it is only 155. What are you going to do? Back to confrontation. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] You have promised yours, Mr. Torra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.5.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.6.0	... – I finish –, a state of its own in the form of a republic. Do you know what you are really going to give your own? A government-shaped CoR, aimed only at those with a yellow link. That's all you're going to offer Catalans. Unfortunately, we're going to have to wait longer, we're going to have to waste more time and more opportunities until the day comes when there's going to be a government of all Catalans, not just for those who carry a link or not, but for all Catalans, and a government that's not settled in victimism and confrontation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.7.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.8.0	...but in a project for Catalonia for the next few years. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.9.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, of Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.10.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very honorable President of the Generality, the truth is that we are very pleased to be able to keep this conversation on the composition and objectives of the new Government of the Generality. And take advantage, from the entrance, to wish them all out and uncertain. And, if I may, to the extent that I always serve, allow me to be the leader of the opposition, I hope that the fears she has expressed from this rostrum are not filled. Because you certainly are – you must be – the Government of Catalonia, the Government of all the citizens of Catalonia. That does not mean that they are a neutral government, that does not mean that they are a government without ideology, that does not mean that they are not a government determined to defend certain grounds; but they can never lose sight of the fact that this country is plural, very rich and diverse and that there are very different sensitivities. The government's takeover has automatically led to the lifting of Article 155 of the Constitution. And you know that what we want is that we can be before. Since the 31st generation we could have had a new president; since the midday of fever we could have had a new government. We've had more than three months more than 155. We disagreed about that. You wanted to maintain a policy of maintaining the Government of Spain and with the judiciary for what it does to the election of president and for what it does to the appointment of members of the Government. But they have finally been forced to accept once again that outside the law there is no possibility of developing viable political action. Speeches endure everything, but reality is coughing: we only go well when speeches and vagina reality of the hand. And that's not giving up – I take the word for it – that's accepting reality without giving up changing it, but from reality. A_must be coughed up with the will, but don't be Czech before reality. And they don't think I'm saying this to them as a toilet or to make sure that from the first day on, we say they're going to make viable candidates, no; I'm telling them because I think we all need to be aware of the margins of political action. And as we all use our mouths – and I suppose we sincerely do – of the words ‘living together and respecting, living together and respecting us requires the strict compliment of legality. Or, said in another way, breaking the law, breaking coexistence and preventing politics. It is true that we would also want – and you also said this in your intervention – to have a beneficial dialogue with the Government of Spain. I believe that this dialect, President, demands respect for legality and respect for the separation of powers; it is to say, do not pretend to ask, demand, claim before a power of the State that corresponds to another. We have heard false and even contradictory messages about respect for legality. When the government spokesman puts unilaterality back on the table, what is it doing? Are we told, as has been said from this rostrum, that they will do what they did in the last four months of 2017? It's not that long ago. It's not that long ago. And so it is impossible to ignore the cost and consequences of unilateral and illegal drift from the previous legislature. I, therefore – and let me ask you this – do they intend to set aside the already nullified forecasts of the Law of Legal and Foundational Transition of the Republic? Is that what it's like to be a republic? Or, if you want to, more generally: what do you mean by being a republic? Do you seriously think that we can negotiate on the basis of the '1 October vote? We believe – and we don't think we're alone in this – that starting here is wrong. I know that in the investiture debate we are going to insist on it – and I would not want to do more, because I think that you in this case made it clear – that it is you and none else the President of the Generality, and that the Government of Catalonia is the one who sits here today, in this first seat of Parliament, and not others; and that its legitimacy derives from a parliamentary vote that is based on some elections established in the State and the LOREG and, therefore, in the Constitution. And we have often lost ourselves in games of words, creating equivocals and fantasies that have given public opinion and that, sometimes, and later, have led to the intervention of our self-government institutions and to high personal costs of which we have good proof in some corners of this hemisphere. We now have the possibility to do things in another way; I don't say to give up, I don't say to give up, I don't say to change ideas, I'm not saying that. But I'm talking about doing things in a different way and recognizing some questions that were actually unknown on the 6th and 7th of September last year. Recognising that the change in the rules of the game requires a large majority, requires the favorable vote of politicians and deputies, because this is how the Statute establishes it, not because Madrid has imposed it on us. I believe, President..., and perhaps this is not the time to do so, but I think it would be a solemn compromise to give up imposing a new institutional framework that does not at least have the support that the statutory reform demands. I believe that this would be an element of confidence, of tranquillity, of stability. You'd agree. Because it is also true that the question is often presented in terms of conflict between Catalonia and Spain. But this obliviously divides the half-way between the same Catalans. Opinion division; I am not speaking, as it is sometimes said, of an irresolvable fracture, of a fragmentation, of a breach of this ‘a people's sun, but of a division over which is the way, which is the future to follow. And, therefore, man, even a negotiation with the Government of Spain can be favored by a broad, more cross-cutting agreement. Does that mean the government can't negotiate for itself? No, no, I'm not saying that; I'm on my own. And I want to take advantage of this moment to thank you for having already convened a round of contacts with parliamentary groups from this very moment on. You have all the legitimacy to establish the unmissable dialog with the Government of Spain. But let me tell you, Mr. President, that your position will be as solid as your sensitivities are able to represent. I guess I could say it here or any other place. Now – I come back – a negotiation that you intended, that you intended to change the rules of the game, to change the institutional framework, this does require a broad consensus in Catalonia. And, in our opinion, it is not going to use mechanisms, participatory processes, constituent processes, to make it clear that it must be this Parliament which, for a majority of two-thirds of it, must set up the processes of institutional reform. On the other hand, it is not surprising to recall that the Constitutional Court has already annulled the conclusions of the Commission for the Study of the Process constituted in the previous legislature. And, therefore, we always recommend not to make the same mistakes again. In any case, try us. We probably need to start this dialog here and out of here for less ambitious and sometimes more concrete questions, without renouncing the final goal of time that each has. But here we have some financing pending; the laws appealed before the Constitutional Court, of which you yourself spoke in the investiture debate; the pending requests made to the Government of Spain by the President But first and President Puigdemont after, and so many things that would allow us to improve and expand our self-government and our financing, our endowment of basic infrastructures – forgiveness, strategic – and our ability to intervene in decisions that ultimately affect us, is taken in Madrid or Brussels. We want to encourage you to start this path. And, if you think it's appropriate, we're on condition that we contribute ideas and support to it. The more support you have, the more opportunities you will have to go forward and get concrete results. We have often insisted on the institutional character of the presidency. The president emerges from a concrete parliamentary majority, certainly, but he has to aspire to represent the conjunction of Catalan society. I say this in another way: you can carry the dark place, but with yours we don't carry the dark place we have to feel represented, especially when you say speak or when you say speak on behalf of all Catalonia, of all the people. I know it's a... it's complicated, I know it's hard, but it's my obligation to ask him to plant it there. We are prepared for everyone to express their views freely, but at the same time we want to demand the neutrality of public space and institutions. I'm telling you, we're gonna have to keep talking about this, and we're gonna have to see how concrete it is so that we don't violate each other's sensitivities and options. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Now, you too – and if you'll excuse me, President, it seems to me that with a minute I'll get to say everything I wanted – it's no government. Sometimes we have talked about this double dimension of the presidency of the Generality: institution itself and symbol, and also no government. Like the government, we're waiting for the councillors to submit their plans to committee so we can talk to them. What I want to assure you of is our willingness to collaborate from the opposition on those issues that we can share.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.11.0	You're running out of time, Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.12.0	Yes, I'm done, President. We want to show one thing that is very difficult, that is that it can, making a good opposition, improve government action. And this is the will of our group. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.13.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Then has the word Mr Xavier Domènech on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.14.0	This morning, Mr. President, I saw that he went from quoting as references in the Catalan – and Republican – Action investiture..., and today he has already gone to Prat de la Riba. Go with it, because it would be Catalan Action to the League, and not to the Catalan League but to the Regionalist League, and, in fact, to move from the Generality to the Mancomunity; they do not know that they end up saying not only that you do autonomy, but that you can become a pre-autonomist in this country. Well, said that, I think today is a day that many Catalans and Catalans..., and a large part – I think a very clear majority – of this chamber expected. And he was expecting it and he was demanding it because today is the day that an effective government is formed and today is the day that we are once upon a time over the play of 155 and, therefore, we start the way of recovery from institutions. And we didn't just expect it from the opposition, it's that I think it was obvious that most of the government had parties that were waiting for it, and they were fighting it from the very beginning. Therefore, today there is no excuse, not a single, to keep 155. As much as the lords of Ciutadans, before the lack of political alternatives that they have in Catalonia and the lack of political alternatives that they have in Spain, who have remained alone, no longer only in Catalonia but in Spain, continue to defend 155 as the only political mandate, because they don't know what else to say. There's no way, absolutely no excuse to keep 155. Nor do I think there is any, absolutely no excuse, to continue maintaining the economic intervention of the Government of Catalonia. It has formed an effective government and can walk towards the recovery of our institutions. It's been a long and crooked way to get here. I think it's been... you could defend that it's been a way of a thought-provoked strategy, that it's decided that we have to wait seven months, that we have to go through a whole series of things. I don't think so, I think it's been a product of improvisation, lack of strategy, tactics, and many improvisations, honestly. I think that's it. But the fact is, we're here now, and we're here in a completely new situation, probably very unexpected also for most of this room. Today, a government in Catalonia conforms, at the same time as a new government in Spain conforms, and this changes absolutely the timing of everything we have predicted – or have not predicted you – and makes the answer to the question more urgent, for us absolutely claus, which we have already asked in the investiture debate. A question, now surely no longer about who, who was to be the president or who were to be the counselors or counselors, but about what and why. That is to say, the question about what this government is proposing in the situation we are living in. And in that question of what is proposed, there are things that are not proposed and that we must say to them. We believe that it is not proposed to be captivated in the struggle against masculinism, when it does not decide nor make a council of equality. We thought it was absolutely necessary to make a council of equality at these times. First, because we're getting to where we're getting to in the themes of male violence; then, because we're seeing things like La Manada's feeling. And there is not enough to come to the Parliament of Catalonia and make solemn declarations; there is not enough, with this. We need resources, we need policies, and in this case, it was obvious to us that there was a need for equality advice. This government does not believe that it is proposed, despite your words yesterday, Mr Joaquim Torra, President of the Generality, to make the climate change agenda a priority. Yesterday you said that the Cartographic Institute, that the Meteorological Service and that the ACA were instruments of state. If this are instruments of state, I don't know why we need independence, because practically we already have it all done, I'd say. But beyond that, it is absolutely clear that what was needed was to recover the environmental advice, as called for by the ecological entities, which knew perfectly well that there had been since 92, that it disappeared with the government of Artur Mas in 2010, and that once it disappeared, the ecological entities reported that 60 % of resources in environmental policies had been lost. That's reality, not words – it's reality. This government also believes that it is not intended to make the recovery of the public university one of its great objectives. And we believe it because it's still placing the public university in a Business and Knowledge Council. And when you do so, you're clearly saying where you want to locate the university: at the service, in any case, of economic interests, legitimate but private, not public, and not at the service of the country's joint. Not to know, we don't know yet – and these questions were also asked during the investiture, he's not worried, I'll say it today, I won't repeat it any more – whether this government is proposing to pursue a progressive fiscal policy; yes or no? If this Government is proposed to re-donate resources to the Bressol schools, yes or no? Download university fees complement the mandate of the Catalonian Parliament of June 2016; yes or no? It will reverse all of the 2010 retailers; yes or no? They're key questions and they're easy to answer. Then, it may be complicated to get there, but it's easy to answer if you have this will or not. You said: "The housing policy is central. This proposal is easy to believe. Aturin, at these times, all the public housing sub-hastes of the Government of Catalonia, as requested by the entities, and collaborate with the joints to see who is given to this type of housing. In the end, now that we know for sure that Mrs. Elsa Artadi is in government and that Mrs. Teresa Jordan is also in government, knowing this, it would be worth knowing whether the policies will be those represented by Mrs. Elsa Artadi or by Mrs. Teresa Jordan. What kind of government is this? Is it a neoliberal government? Is it a progressive government? What kind of government is this? It's important to know what government it is. Certainly, she wanted to congratulate Mrs. Teresa Jordan and Mrs. Esther Capella, because I know them and I think they will be great advisors in this sense. Nor do we know, not to know at these times, how long this government will last. How long will it last? Because it's also different to focus one legislature in one way or another. We still don't know if what Puigdemont said would last four months is true or not; it would be helpful to clarify it at a time. I honestly believe we don't know much about this government yet. Has a new political stage been opened, in Catalonia and Spain, and this is the government for the new stage? This is the key question: is it the government for the new stage? I don't think so. I think it's a government designed for an earlier stage, it's an old government based on past legitimacy and not on the opportunities of dialogue and future that occur at these times. I hope I'm wrong – I hope I'm wrong – but I don't think so. The blocks. It's just... let's look at the situation we've been through these days. Those blocs that were absolutely irreconcilable to Catalonia, those blocs that we had proposed that a majority of new, broader, more strengthened, more transversal government should emerge to build a new stage for Catalonia, those blocs that Catalonia could not fully agree on, from these blocs came political forces, the political force to make out the People's Party in Spain. Is that what's good for Spain, starring in Catalonia's political forces, isn't that good for Catalonia? Isn't that good for Spain for Catalonia? What can be voted on together in Spain cannot make up new realities in Catalonia? This is a question that I think is absolutely key to this government and the political dynamic that we are opening. We were there for two years that there was a majority in the Congress of Deputies alternative to the Government of the People's Party, and we said, practically, and we preached it in the desert. We said: "A motion of censure must be made. And, finally, this majority that was said to be non-existent, that was said to be irreconcilable, in the worst of possible situations, because during these two years very serious things have happened, it has been activated. So that this majority is also able to activate the Parliament of Catalonia to unlock the big problems. We, in this sense, that we have led this proposal to take out the People's Party, we will also work to get absolutely out of the dynamics of blocs that catch us, everyone, and when we catch everyone catch Catalonia and catch the country. I'll do it. And we aspire to break these blocks to make assumptions that are truly worthy of our society, to be able to advance in social rights and fight for all our rights – for all our rights – and for all our freedoms. To build a united and stronger country in its diversity. We can continue in a government built from the past or think about the future. We'll have our hands extended to open a new era where everyone can definitely be at the height of this moment. Therefore, we will be absolutely attentive to what this government does, absolutely attentive. And we want you to ask them that we could be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.15.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Domènech. The words "Mrs. Nattalia Sánchez", on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.16.0	Good morning. I begin my intervention with a cry of rage against patriarchy, which violates us, kills us and enslaves us. We want safe towns and cities, we want to live, to Vilanova, Albacete, Fuerteventura, and also, as worthy workers, all solidarity with the workers of the Maduixa, to Huelva. [[Greetings.]] President, very honourable President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, I want to start with a special record for the President of the Parliament, the Carmel Forcadell, and the rest of the Councillors, former Members and President of the Generality, who should be here today. Democracy continues to be suspended. The repression and the plan of the State made way. Repression has as its objective– we have said many times– to demobilize the population and to take the focus of the political struggle and the objectives that have a certain social movement, the republic movement. The whole country, like the Parliament, continues under the state of exception, under inquisitorial persecution. Don't be fooled, don't be fooled, don't fool people, baby, please. For more sights that come from Ferraz, for more that they intend to make see that with this government that today we have come to some place where they have proposed to arrive, not to deceive us, you have presented them saying that they want to return the government; it was their project, not ours. Others said they wanted an effective government to recover self-government; it was their project, not ours. And I would like to say, therefore, that his objectives have been supplemented: neither Government has returned nor effective Government. And they're still doing it with a great ability to generate some sights that you could say, including, to generate scenes filled with rhetoric and lack of actual facts. They have not recovered the institutions, the institutions remain secret, the sovereignty of Parliament will continue to be protected by the courts, with the bench of 155 as political commissioners. The finances of the Generalitat, they know better than me, continue to intervene. They certainly started badly, without even completing the minimums of parity in the government that they had presented and that they did not cheat to modify, not to complete the parity but to comply. But I want to say one thing, I say to you and to Mrs. Arrimadas: women are not a quota in spaces ruled by men; less capitalism and more vague feminist, and less hypocrisy, please, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Greetings.]] To the people who are part of this government, to sincerely thank them that they take this turn, that although they know that they do not intend to direct it towards the break with the Spanish State, they appreciate the courage to take responsibility in a state with an obvious lack of freedom. In a state where you are ordered to go to prison to say that the Bourbons are thieves, perhaps they are persecuted to carry the groceries. So thank you. President Torra, the team they have chosen to govern the engrines of autonomy reinforces our suspicions. President Torra, Convergence and the Republican Left have chosen him a continuousist team with the policies of the previous governments, a continuist with the autonomous policies, and more, we understand that he is a government that has constituted itself to comply with the law, the Spanish Constitution and the State of Extended and Non-ratified Autonomy for the Catalan people. It is a clearly autonomous government, which has as intended to fully develop autonomy. It is a government that will continue to feel intervened, I said, and a government that is absolutely compromised with neoliberal policies, from our point of view. And if not, answer 'an example, please: what policies can you expect from the new Territorial and Sustainability Councillor? The older, more neoliberal convergence guard who understands it as a space to speculate and negotiate. The country project represented by the former Director of Incasòl is based on the promotion of large infrastructures, which span the territory; the promotion of large shopping centres through a great skill in requalification. This is a project totally opposed to ours. And don't be fooled, Mr. Torra. In this space it will not win..., and with these policies, it will not win a single crown of sovereignty, because if it accepts managers to rule the country, it will be mortgaged even more to the big companies and corporations that see from the income thanks to the old Convergence. And that's just an example, I said. Because, in addition, he has been filled by the Secretary General and high levels of genuine political professionals, who carry years with under millionaires, come, as El País said, to the highest bidder to maintain power and his privileges. What sovereignship do they want with this lineup? What social base do they want to expand if they continue to do what they have always done, without asking the social majority, which we have often told them to exist, which is that of the precarious social majority, of the workers and the workers who curse to arrive at the end of the month. Finally, if they want a project of seventy deputies they don't go for the right path. In fact, they're totally against direction. This is a government with a full autonomous vocation, a government committed to neoliberal policies. Neither government is returned nor effective.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.17.0	Mrs. Sànchez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.18.0	I'm done. The government that abides, the government that continues to prioritize the interests of power to the needs of the popular classes. And I end up with a sentence – leave a minute, please, President – with a sentence they said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.19.0	No, not a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.20.0	...the company Nana and the company Julià de Jodar to President Puigdemont. They said: "The government that comes out of this Parliament will not gain legitimacy unless it implements the necessary measures to address inequalities and exclusions. I can't fail you, President. The political freedom of this people cannot fail us in social justice for its people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.21.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. It is the turn, now, of Mr Xavier García Albiol, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.22.0	All right. Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Counselors and advisors, my first words are not to wish them luck, but to wish them uncertain in their management, and I say it with all sincerity. And they'll allow me to go straight to work, because, if there were, then, a deputy who complained because she had two minutes, in my case I have five, huh? Therefore, this forces me to try to make a little more concrete. After listening to your intervention with great attention, Mr President, I must say to you that if we were to take any conclusions, I would say that the conclusion is that you are installed in a virtual reality: the vast majority of Catalans, with their problems, with the daily problems, are in a dimension, and you are in a higher dimension, a dimension that does not allow you to see the reality of that land that has affected you to govern. The government that you have presented to us, the reality that shows is that it is a government, Mr. Torra, that is secreted by a fugitive from justice; it is a government that is secreted by Mr. Puigdemont of Germany, that is who really controls the execution. You said in your intervention that you respect, that you are a government that respects the will of the people of Catalonia. So, well, they could apply it, too, because last week at the Congress of Deputies, precisely, I don't know if Esquerra Republicana, the PDECAT, Bildu have respected the majority will of the people, in this case, of Spain, right? And here in Catalonia there's also another reality, that's that who won the elections was Citizens, even though it's not known, even though it didn't happen, but who won the elections was them, and what allowed you to be sure today is a great deal of those parties that lost the elections and that – and it's the hardest – only represent a part of society. He pointed out in his intervention that, as I say, we listened to him very carefully, that you have already met and that it is your intention to meet repeatedly with the previous Government, with the previous Government of the Generality. And it doesn't seem good or bad to me. Yes, it will allow me that... in the situation in which they are found they are not to give mass advice and after what they did in the previous legislature they are not exactly an example to follow. But you're definitely on your right. And we won't criticize him. Now, we will criticize you that it seems to us, man, very little justifiable, Mr President, that you have met with the previous government I do not know how many times and that today you have not yet met with the members who represent that part of the Catalan society that are not independent. It's true he called us, he'll call us the week he's coming. But it will allow me to..., the gestures that you are currently conveying to the public opinion and to the society as a whole are gestures that are addressed to us in the investment debate, to be the president only and exclusively of that part of the Catalan society that voted for you and your governing partners. We have one aspect that man, that we would not want to stop passing in a moment like today. You presented us with your government, your execution; we, as I said, wanted them to be certain. But let's not be fooled: it's not the government that you wanted, it's not the government that you wanted, and Mr. Puigdemont; what you're presenting to us today is a government that has been forced to form because the state of law has not allowed it to what it meant..., that it was his will and meant the main thing to the political class and to Catalonia in general..., and it's a government with people who can't exercise their functions because he's found, because that's what you've been looking for, in a situation of lack, huh? , freedom, decision and movement. So, we're in front of a government that's a second or a third option from you and that we don't know at these times whether it's a team you trust or whether it's trying, so, to find pieces, huh? , to complete with the ritual, to complete with the obligation to make a government, as it cannot otherwise be, for the proper months, for the Government of Catalonia. So, we'll be very careful, we'll be very much on your management. Honestly, we have little hope, we have few...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.23.0	Mr. García Albiol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.24.0	... – I have finished, Mr President – we have very little hope, but from here we will not talk about words or assumptions, but we will talk about their facts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.25.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. It's the return, now, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs. Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.26.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President Torra; good morning, honourable councillors, deputies and deputies, ladies and gentlemen, today I have a special illusion that I can begin my intervention by greeting the new Government of the Generality that we have here. More than six months have passed, as President Torra reminded us, in order to form it, as a consequence of the unacceptable interbanks and interferences of a state and a government of the State that has not paid for the defeat of October 1st and December 21st. But we already have government; we have put the country back in the hands of the citizenry, respecting the will of the people and their votes. We've recovered the institutions that illegally usurped us, and we're taking the road back. We celebrate it, but we do it, as always in these past months, with a bitter grip and with the pain of knowing that there are companies in prison and exile that should be able to be part of this government and the state has prevented it. And with a firm and clear compromise, he'll come with us all the time: we'll work tirelessly so you can get home soon. And to recognize that, as well as the legitimacy of the new government, while looking at your bench, I still see President Puigdemont, Vice President Junqueras, the low, tight, drunk and ponsati advisors and the Turull, Mundó, Rull, Forn, Puig, Comín and Romeva advisors. Today we see that we are taking up the initiative, we are starting again to walk, that the Government of Catalonia will return to work for the citizens, that they are recovering the institutions of the country and making them work again. We're off the hook on 155. What's the difference? As it was with the rebuttals that you had all the counselors in your departments. The darkness of the Catalan institutions' despatxos. Once the government has recovered, however, it must execute the job. And, in this sense, of the Republican Left, we mark three great strategic lines for this legislature. One, reverse 155 and raise economic intervention, as vice president Aragonès announced the other day. It will therefore be necessary to assess all the damage that the application of this article has created and to undo all the damage. The second great objective is to take care of everyone– yes, Mrs. Arrimadas, everyone–, doing the social policies necessary to protect rights and guarantee equal opportunities and social justice. We are very clear that doing so in the Spanish State will always be insufficient. Also from this objective we set up defence without cracks of democracy and the political civil rights of Catalans, repeatedly threatened and raised for the State. I, finally, make republic: overflow the autonomic marks; implement the laws that the Constitutional Court dropped the last legislature that bet for tangible betters for the people and walk decisively to make the republic effective. Now we can be stronger and stronger. And today, with the Government of the Generality on the march, we are infinitely stronger, because we have eliminated 155 and because we can reactivate and implement all the Republican policies that allow us to defend the interests of the citizenry and put the institutions at your service. They don't want to make a lot of gestures and get used to giving a lot of lessons, but now it's time for work, to reactivate the country, to stay and recover everything that destroyed 155; it's time to keep working to keep moving towards the republic from all fronts, and while continuing to work to make this country a better place, more just and with equal opportunities. Social struggle, the bet for social policies is the best way to work for the republic and follow making new republicans. We want to be the face of the coin: working for and with the citizenry. From the coin creu we have not seen many examples that we do not want to repeat. In fact, we want to be contrary to what the Spanish governments have been and demonstrated, that they have systematically worked against on the part of the citizens, such as, for example, with the Mediterranean Corridor, the laws suspended by the TC, sending the police to attack peaceful citizens, falling down the State voted in reference to the people, systematically failing the agreements already followed by infrastructures or economics, or not executing everything approved by the Catalonian press. We want to rule for everyone. We would make ourselves the expression of Muriel Casals to « rule for a people, with healthy, constructive, reciprocal and enriching coexistence, defunct the division. We bet on a society that adds up, we don't believe in the fracture or the models that promote it; a society that is plural, that is the boss of the wealth and virtues of others; we educate and live with freedom in its maximum expression, as we demonstrated in the later legislature approving the law that fights against the poor energy, the tax for the sweaty, the law for universal salvation and so many others. Because when the Spanish State acts against Catalonia in this way it does so against those who think independence is the best solution but also for those who want to continue in the Spanish State, for the voters of many of you. Because the problem with Catalans isn't that we don't have a state, but we have one against it. Never before had I been asked to do so many times, and always with a fond concern about who and how can lead, for a determined path, an immense group of citizens with such diverse thoughts, expectations, emotions, desires and ideologies. And no one like this government – Mrs. Arrimadas, I don't doubt – has enough sensitivity to represent the plurality of this country, the most equal of all, but still, the truth, not enough, with people with many different origins and diverse political traditions, even with the first pregnant councillor. We want to be like the country we represent. I come from the world of sport and I know that individuals at some point can go well, but if there is no team it is very difficult to win; if there is no team it is very difficult to be the best. And our challenge is this: to be the best government for everyone. Let's work as a team; all in all, everyone contributes to the team; let's choose our strengths, and get the best out of each team because the team returns and rejoices returns. This is what we ask this government: teamwork and complicity. Yes, we know that there will be two people who will lead the group, such as, obviously, President Torra and also Vice President Aragonès, who are our captains. And let us celebrate, as the President has pointed out in his initial speech, that the government is as striking as it is vitally responsible for parity. Because parity doesn't have to be just a slogan, we're not the ones who do politics just at the top of the page. We saw it the past 8-M. Palpitate. There is a very strong demand for effective equality already, and from the government it is often necessary to accompany the words with facts, breaking the glass press and, above all – above all – to feminize politics. We make ourselves visible and, if necessary, we also challenge when we do, so that we can do politics in women. We don't just want advisors to whom she's changed it for one and, uh, that. We want advisors as we can see women, with the values that make us different and, at the same time, complement our working partners. But let's bring our virtues, which are many of them: able to find the thread, to thread the needle and to pack the mouthpieces, once and for all, with empathy, teamwork and network work. If we do one thing at a time, the other will end up normal. If we see women presiding over governments and councils, it will start to seem natural to us. Journalist Natza Farré, with the humor and irony that characterizes her, but also rigorously and forcefully, at her last book calls for the revolution of women. She tells us, from her perspective: "Before she had to be very brave to break the standards. Now it's got to be very heavy. Counselors, don't ever stop being nightmares. The revolution won't be a complete revolution if it doesn't have a woman's face. We need to resume a new stage, with Republican values under the arm and placing the city in the center. We don't want a country of pure and traitors. We don't want a country of good and bad. We do not want a country where it is classified or judged by its origin, but rather we want to build a country among all and for all. And he says to build expressly, because we are the ones that we push, the ones that we fem, the ones that we build, the ones that we weave, the ones that we dialogue in front of which they want to divide, confront, silence, climb and undertake. We are the "yes" before the "non-permanent". If they do, what are some who are always angry? This country is one of those that gets up, one and the other time. He's the one who works without rest for the object. And this country, gentlemen, will be a republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.27.0	Thank you, Mrs. Caula. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr. Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.28.0	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, President of Parliament, and today, in a very special way, honourable advisers and advisers, very honorable President of Catalonia, we have more than an hour of debate and so far you have had to listen to a little bit of everything. In fact, again, all too much of the old politics; all too much of the predictable politics, which you abhor because it doesn't propose. This is a legitimate settlement, but very little benevolent with the country. That is why the first thing I will say to you, on behalf of the Junts Group for Catalonia, is: ladies and gentlemen advisors, you continue to welcome Parliament; I am very welcome to the government of Catalonia's econsons, to your econsons, and to the econsons of President Puigdemont, Vice President Junqueras, Councillors Turull, Rull, Forn, Comín, Romeva, Borràs, Ponsatí, Mundó, Puig, Bassa and Serret. Welcome, and thank you, above all thank you. « Thank you is a word that is very nice and that makes us serve little. And, in change, it's an expression that should be customary. It would be nice to live in a country that you can say thanks. Therefore, thanks for accepting the charge at a time of storm and uncertainty. Thank you. We are ahead of a new, exceptional and extraordinary fact in full 21st century. Catalonia has a very strong state machinery ahead of it which, for some time now, has fine-tuned a way of acting repressive, violent and anti-democratic. Catalonia has still poorly planted in front of a machine that has done for a lot of people and that would want to do for everyone we think different. Catalonia has been facing a major state operation in recent months which would like to deny October 1st and the outcome of December 21st and which aims to make those who believe in the ballot box and in the votes, who applaud the discrepancy, go away. But it's a bad time for people who don't believe in Catalonia, because Catalonia is always there. Catalonia has lived and lived through a hard, powerful and relentless attack against our freedoms, institutions and rights. The attack that Catalonia saw is tough. When it's explained, it won't be a 30-minute 30-minute day on the eve of five or six years, no, the attack we're living will write this century. But we're here, dempeus. For those who don't want to meet us, this is the big surprise. We're here in need, and you're willing to say things for his name. Gov. Torra likes us: diáleg in and out; the local world as a pillar of the country; believe in the peppers, in the school, in the masters; enhance the policies of housing, access to housing; play hard and bet for the agro-food industry – which is very strong– ; remove from the courts, where there are none, all the laws that have blocked us in the last few months; universal health care, because we will not be without humanity, we will not be without. We like it and we say it: we like to work for guaranteed citizenship income. What do you want me to tell them? We like it. And we are pleased to know that Catalonia, and only Catalonia, President Torra, will decide its future. This is a country, and we're not willing to listen to one more time to the social fracture song. Catalonia has a problem with the Spanish State, which is a strong state and which has so far been perplexed, deaf and mute. In Catalonia, yes, it is true – the other day we talk to the Member of Parliament Font – there is a shock of ideas, it is certain – it does not panic, it is normal – a bump of strong ideas that has also been donated in other Western societies after a devastating economic crisis. From the crises, there are questions. We have agreed that we can live better and we want to live better. Catalonia is going to be a national policy and a social policy. We demand the right of complex societies to discuss and debate, to see the world from different optics and, if appropriate, oppositions. The game has ended with a perverse idea. There is no social fracture in Catalonia. There isn't. Do they know what one of the pillars of Republican principles is? Listen, talk and listen. Do they know who is the most primordial principle of societies that live without democracy? Yeah, I said no democracy. Non-democratic societies neither listen nor speak, they impose. That's why the new government, like the Republican principles that inspire it, will listen and talk to everyone. And, lords of Ciutadans, put to say the things by his name, in this Parliament – Congressman Domènech has already advanced it – you are alone: alone, winged and defeated. Catalonia has won them, because reality has won them. What you say doesn't exist, much so that it repeats it in the morning, late and night. Mrs. Arrimadas, do you want to eliminate the groceries? Did you want it? So eliminate the shame of prison and exile. [[Greetings.]] Do you want to end the groceries? You want to end the deep loops? Oblivious to flirt with Francoism and flirt with democracy and democratic attitudes. [[Greetings.]] You're doing this favor. But this morning... this morning we also want to let say that the prison and exile continue and will continue to feel the outline of our policy. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. As we head to the country, even as we argue, there are honourable advisers and President Puigdemont, advisors who should be sitting on these red benches, who are being held in prison at this time. Instead of listening to this morning's debate, there are counselors in a prison camp. It's a hell of a thing. I only describe an injustice, an anomaly: arrest and exile until when? Until when this shame? That is why your courage, your courage, the courage of the councillors who have accepted President Torra's assignment to govern and move to the service of this people must be valued. Thank you for sitting 'in the first row of this Parliament, in the escons of a silent government that was eliminated by Article 155. In this sense, President Torra, forwarding with all the actions that help us to draw the clear water of what the application of this malignant artifact has entailed. We need to know the evil that 155 did and repressed it, and do repair policies. By the way, who's going to apologize to Catalonia for 155? 155 looks great, and titties. And to all these parents I remind you that if you ask for forgiveness, you can always apologize. Apologize, which would be, for example, a good way to open the doors of the Moncloa to the dialect. In the pairs of 155, in fact, they don't ask for anything, because I've seen them growl. Mr. Millo, hard to do, up and down, packing. Mr Albiol also has a bargain with the socialists in Badalona to make a good government out of it. But what about the titties? What do the 155 titties say? What does the PSC have to say? What will the PSOE say? Is the answer the dialog? Is the answer to the dialog proposal the dialog? Or is the dialog Pepe Borrell like you warn navigators? Are the gestures of Pedro Sánchez pose one of the cooks of 155, Carmen Calvo, as the minister? If it's about being brave, and President Torra said, we're still brave, we're taking risks, which was in this very room a few minutes ago. But the country deserves a pardon, even though it is with a small mouth, an apology for many reasons, but especially for 155, because 155 has made a big deal of it for us. Now, history is coughing up, and good government and self-government, in this country, like democracy, always come back. It's time to serve the country and it's time for the brave, and you, accepting President Tora's assignment, have shown that they're brave. Courage is a quality for a government that will faithfully work on republican values: equality, freedom, fraternity and culture. And President Torra is brave and intelligent when he draws his execution adapting it at the moment. The new government is a tool in the service of change, with the will of change. Being a republic is transforming, transforming is building, transforming is a responsibility, transforming is advancing towards equity, social responsibility and equality. Transform...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.29.0	Mr. Pujol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.30.0	...is the new government's obligation. I'm done. The new government is the tractor of change. If you have the transformative idea of President Torra and President Puigdemont, you will have a commanding attitude that will reach all the reasons of society and the country. And this is a great responsibility: aptitude and attitude for the republic, with the idea that we are better off. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.31.0	Thank you, Mr. Pujol. Once all the parliamentary groups have spoken, it's the president's turn. President Torra, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.32.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, MPs, MPs. Thank you for this debate, everyone. And, if it seems to them, I will respond to their observations. In the first place, therefore, to the opposition group, Ciutadans, which I am pleased that he liked the structure of the Government, because he did not speak in absolute terms; therefore, I understand that about the thirteen councils and how we have structured ourselves, so you are in favour of it; it is a point in which we are already beginning to hear, and I am celebrating it. I thought it was the only one who, instead of having a hundred days of grace, had had six years of..., well, recovering from a past; but it is today that I see that what you have done to me during these weeks, so now you intend to do it with other advisors of my Government, such as Constable Borràs or Vice President Aragones. I don't... know hard, I'll speak on your behalf, comrades; you'll explain when you're ready. I know it's hard to get a picture of Vice President Aragonès' 2005 year, honestly. They're not new anymore, but they're already... they're back to us for thirteen years, aren't they? , to recreate, so..., or to explain here what's going on. Or in the case of the Koiné Manifesto, which Professor Borràs signed together with 275 more members of the academic field, a manifesto that defined the català as an integrative eix, in a public assumption of multilingualism, the truth, this specialty that you have to take a few sentences, eh? That point, decontextualize it and all of this serve a cocktail to, say, present some public trajectories that you have nothing to see, to me..., I sincerely would prefer you not to do it; I think that doesn't enrich the debate. We have a debate, if it seems to them, a debate built on ideas, on the country project; we have these great debates that we have not had – we have not had them, in this country–, we have them all at once. And there's a big debate in this country, which is a big deal, that's it. It's a country debate. And we have to be mature enough to face him. I explain it to you, I want to explain to you what this groceries means to me, and allow me to give you two examples; and you, as the woman, will understand me well. I went to see..., perhaps one of the most exciting visits I made to prison was to Alcalá Meco, when I went to see the Speaker of Parliament, Mrs Forcadell, and Constellera Bassa. President Forcadell that day was a little touched, a little..., not so excited; the Low Councilwoman was combative, fantastic, those who knew her, Esquerra's companions, you know her strength..., and she said to me, "Who, you know why I'm here? Dec: « Counselor, no. He said: "No, it's that I supposedly opened some civic centers, because people could vote. That's why I'm here in prison. Or, to open some civic centers: prison, without feeling, all these months? I don't know, I mean, does it seem minimally reasonable? Does it feel like this could be happening? Really, what we have is this... we do this debate, we do it. If you say to me, "No, no, it's reasonable that a person who supposedly opened and authorized himself to open a civic center must be in a prison without being able to see his family, without having a feeling, during all these months..., if you seem reasonable, well..., we are in a situation of debate. But let's do it; let's do it, because this country has to face this issue, we have to face it, with all the point of humanity and dehumanity that this issue has. And, if I may, there's also another example I want to set, because it's an example I think of every day, because it's that we see, we see in it the example of what's going on, that's the son of Jordi Cuixart and the Txell Bonet. L'Amat is one year old, just completed one year; it's been seven months without seeing his father, and they want to tell me what Mr. Jordi Cuixart did to be seven months in prison, without feeling? You, opposition groups, to the seas of opposition groups – and forgive me for this point, but..., is this point essential to understand what this wide-ranging place means – do they really understand what that can mean? [[Greetings.]] And I agree, Mrs. Arrimadas, I agree to appeal to justice, we call to justice, we agree, but let's leave it alone. Let's call justice and leave it alone, because none of us deserve the deal that our companies, their colleagues... because we, some of us, have just arrived here, but you have been here during various legislatures, sharing with them, with them, many estons. I honestly can't hear you. And I tell you, Mrs. Arrimadas: I accompany you to Alcala's prison, let's go see them, in a gesture of humanity. Let us depolitize him, let us simply go and see two women who are locked in prison: one for allowing a debate, for allowing a debate in the Parliament of Catalonia; the other for opening some civic centers. And any member of Ciutadans, who wants to come, I accompany them. Therefore, justice and not fear, that is what the deep, justice and not fear means. And that's why we're still carrying it, and that's why it's so important for us to claim it. No, no... it's just that we wouldn't be ourselves if we stopped carrying the groceries, I wouldn't be me, I have to tell them, I have to confess. That said, if you think that to carry the grove I don't aspire to rule for the Catalans, I think you're wrong. And I think I'll try to prove them - I'll do it in the work of the government, I'll try to prove it. On the sign to the Palau de la Generalitat, also, that you asked me, I will not decompose the sign to the Palau de la Generalitat, I will not decompose it. But that banner is no longer so alone for political prisoners, our fellow MPs; that banner is also for singers. It is that in this country, singers had to be exiled, they sang a song and they had to be exiled! Is it possible for us to normalize this exceptional situation? It's just that it's not possible to normalize this exceptional situation. [[Widow's remorse.]] This point of departure, this point so hard to see in the country, of lack of freedom of expression, of antagonism against democratic freedoms, we... [[the remorse of the voice persists]] We want to express it with this sign.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.33.0	One moment, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.34.0	And above all, with this sign...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.35.0	President..., President, for a moment. Please, calm down. The president is speaking. Then they'll have a replica turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.36.0	With this banner we also want to honor the thousands..., the hundred – I forgive – of the gatherings of this country that have broken their faces to, too, prove that they are at the side of the people who are patenting this injustice. And we're the deputy general's house, huh? , that is to say, of the Deputy General, General, Generality, the house of all, as we face the house of the commons ; therefore, it was..., Barcelona was organized under this rule of the commons, and the whole area of the country, of Catalonia, was the Generality. [[Rialles.]] More or less he went that way, okay, perfect..., well, less wrong; then we'll talk about Prat de la Riba, that he'll master a little more. And the house of all, the house of the Generality, of the General, must represent what a majority of this country at this moment feels, that there is a political persecution, exists. That's who you are! , and we want to manifest it, to reveal it with these banners, which have nothing to do with contaminants, but they are banners and hollow loops that help us remember the moment of political exceptionality that we live. It's just that we solve this moment of exceptionality or it's very difficult to talk about normality. Mr. Iceta, thank you for your intervention. I'll put it to Mr. Pedro Sánchez and you at the meeting that we have here, three themes. What is the opinion of the PSOE and the PSC on civil rights and freedoms, the radical defense of civil rights and freedoms? Secondly, we, indeed, one of the first measures we will take tomorrow at the Executive Board is to recover the seventeen laws suspended for the Constitutional Court, which were brought before the Constitutional Court for the previous government. We have full confidence that with a government of the left these laws will not be resorted to, but I would like to know your opinion, and I will also ask the president of the Spanish Government if that is so, if we have to trust that in a government of the left in Spain the social rights will be respected. And, thirdly, I will ask you what your opinion is about the right of self-determination of our country, Catalonia. I'm going to ask you and I'm going to ask Mr. Pedro Sánchez, because we're leaving – and on this subject I'd like to address the companies of the CUP more immediately. They're telling me... why, of course, is my question, now it's: well, what are you going to do? What are you going to do, Mr. Pedro Sánchez? What's the plan, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, for Catalonia? It is Mr. Pedro Sánchez who votes for Article 155 or Mr. Pedro Sánchez who was already beginning to suggest that the crime of rebellion should change it, because naturally he was perfectly well-established as, in a very clear and explicit way, Mr. Felipe González said: "What has happened in this country is a crime of rebellion? With whom, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, do we find each other? And with whom do we find each other? I made him an open letter, you know, to Mr. Pedro Sánchez, explaining to him that we went together to exile, Catalanists and socialists and communists; yes, we went together, but we didn't come back with the same ideas, because the PSOE until the year 74 defended the right to self-determination of peoples. And, therefore, we want to know with what PSOE we find each other. And in everything that you, now that you have this responsibility with your party partners, in everything that you can help Spain to advance republicanly to take over its sovereignty, it seems to me that there is no doubt that we are there. But we need to know who it is, and I assure you that the first names we start to know, so..., good, nice – nice. [[Widow's remorse.]] Miri, Mr. Josep Borrell being Foreign Minister is not bad news: it's bad news for us. [[Greetings.]] And it's not a bad news..., I won't talk about..., because now I could do what happened to me during these weeks; no, I won't talk about all the things that Mr. Borrell could have said. I will refer to his idea, which Mr. Borrell has, of the country's right of self-determination where he was born, of Catalonia. Here– here– Mr. Borrell has maintained some radically opposed positions. Mr Borrell was President of the European Parliament, and the català could not speak. Do you all think the same as Mr. Borrell? So we have a problem, because it's obvious that we're thinking everything against Mr. Borrell. So let's start badly, start badly with these first names. But I need to know about Mr. Sánchez: what is the message? What do you want to explain to me? But I'm already telling you that these first names, to us, honestly, and for which, like Mr. Iceta and I, we already have few hairs, they've set themselves at the top, the few we have. To make republic, what does it mean to make republic? I was asked by Mr. Iceta. We've tried to explain. To be a republic... we believe that there are three ways of republican action, of republican political action. To free space, through the Council of the Republic, very important, all internationalization, which presupposes the legitimacy of the President. I know it's a topic you haven't just seen, let's just say it. [[Funnel veils]] But we'll be there, we'll insist. We believe that we will finally win this fight with the State, precisely thanks to the internationalization of the Catalan process. We're winning... [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, no, you're laughing – you're laughing – and I'm glad you're running now, because the sooner it goes to... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Then we'll cry, okay. As you now laugh, at least I also had the opportunity to meet Brussels with the disbanded councillors; clearly, it turns out that these councillors who are free in Brussels, whom I hugged, who are moving with full freedom of movement for Belgium, are charged for, exactly, the same reason for which other councillors are in prison. And what's going on here? What is Belgian justice... I don't know what happens to Belgian justice that respects Spanish justice? What do you think will happen to the case of Clara Ponsati? Do you think that Switzerland, which is a country that I know well, will never be extradited for political reasons by Anna Gabriel or Marta Rovira? And then what happens? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I'm sorry, what's going to happen? It turns out that Spain is a special thing, where justice works in a way different from the rest of Europe's countries? There we will win; there we will win, in Europe, and this will allow us to end up winning. That's where we win, there's no doubt about it. That is why free space, free space in Europe, and the Council of the Republic with President Puigdemont, leading President Puigdemont, are so important to us. Another way of Republican action? With the institutions of the interior. And we have to... And we talk like that, huh? Let's start talking about exile and the interior. With the institutions inside, with the Government of the Generality, with the Parliament, which must become a republican now and where we can talk about everything, where we have the great debates of the country, of course! And, finally, with an empowered citizenry, which started the process constitute. And here, CUP companies, we need you, because no one like you knows how to pull the process together. So, start it. And finally thank, Mr. Iceta, in any case, your predisposition, your desire, with the counselors, to make good government. I hope that when you have the opportunity to explain yourself in what will be the different comparisons in the committees, so, effectively, we have this debate already more concretely on the governance plan. To the Communs..., Prat de la Riba says to "build the body of state, eh? And that's why the reference went this way, but let's leave it. The government..., says: "Well, is it a government of neoliberals? Is it a government of Social-Democrats? Is it a government of Christian Democrats? It's a republican government – it's a republican government. That's what brings us together at these moments. It's a republican government. And that seems to me to be a very important fact. What I would like more than the Socialist Party to go out to Congress and say: "We are a republican government. It is what we are desiring of the Catalan republicans: that from Spain, the left-wing parties come out with strength to demand the republic, because it is the only way that Spain breaks with the franchise, is the only way that I embrace freedom, that I wish it, as I wish it to Catalonia. He was talking – and to you I appreciate it, because you did come in to talk about the structure of the government – that there is no equality council, and he posed it as a lack. For us, equality, feminism, the struggle against racism... I had the opportunity to contrast this subject, last week, with people. They say: 'Listen to me,' he says, 'these are structural phenomena; therefore, let us attack them cross-sectionally, that each of the departments of the Generality approaches it. And we will address all these issues cross-cutting, clear that yes, because the problem is structural, and therefore has to be addressed in a comprehensive and global way, right? Public sub-shafts, zero – public sub-shafts, zero. The counselor will explain this to you, but zero sub-baskets of public housing, not one. The recipe for habitat is complex, but the main ingredient is the increase in the public park of habitats, without any doubt, of logger habitats. There are compromises. Of course, we need resources; we always go out with this. And a country that is threatened, held for an 8_percent chronic tax deficit, that starts every year..., ra! , with an 8_per_cent already small, so it's obvious that it needs resources, it's that we always need it. It's just that it seems to me that this isn't victimism, no way. It's that it's a cruel situation for the citizens of Catalonia. Or can we not have better schools, better sanitation, better roads, finally the Mediterranean Corridor, if we dispose of these resources and manage them ourselves? Because, of course, this is the point of the question. Therefore, I have no doubt that we are going this way. He said: "New stage. I new stage, clear that..., new stage? You see... social rights, motor of the republical change; public freedoms, radically defended, and right to self-determination. I think here we are, the commons and ourselves – I think here we are. And, therefore, we will have to talk here, and we will have to talk very often, here and in Madrid; but on these three points and on the proposal made at the time by the President of the Parliament on that front of public freedoms... – to me it seemed a very interesting initiative, I hope that we will take it back, and I know that there are and we will find it – but this is how I go back, and many thanks for my help. We..., says: "Well, the alternative to PP, right? And why they voted for the PP. Pardon me: "Why did they vote to take out the PP or change what? It is, of course, that the PP was the government that sent the police against defenseless citizens who were voting. It's just that this is such an ignominy that our vote almost went to this. Now – now – this is not in any way a blank cheque to the PSOE, and I urgently need to talk to Mr. Pedro Sánchez to know what I will find, what we will find with the Socialist Party. CUP companies, this is not an autonomous government. To me, to me I'm deeply displeased that you tell us that I'm an autonomous government, huh? I want to put it to you from..., I want to put it to you, because a government that says it pulls out of the self-determination referendum of October 1st, that it says that on October 27th there was a political declaration of independence, that it is marking a legislative ambition project that goes from restitution to the Catalan constitution project, that makes social rights the engine of republical change, that it wants you to help us move forward in a constituent process, that it has in the worst and in people its raison d'être..., this is not an autonomous government, it cannot be. I wouldn't be the president of the generality if this was an autonomous government. Agreed that we are in a scene of immense complexity, agreed that we have President Puigdemont in exile, advisers to the prison, that... but we are not here to be an autonomous government, eh? That's what I wanted to make clear to you. And as..., allow me, there is a friend of ours, surely we share, in Josep Maria Ganyet ; if not, I encourage you to follow him on Twitter. He did a tweet I shared perfectly, didn't he? He said: "No, you are managing the wreaths here, so and so. No, I don't want noodles. It's more like, I don't want the whole thing anymore, it's like I want the oven. I want to be honest, okay? And here you'll find us. Mr. García Albiol... clearly, if you're talking to me about a secret government for a fugitive from justice, it's that the point of entry is already difficult. I don't know, honestly. What I don't know who lives in this virtual world... is that maybe it's you, isn't it? I think Mr. Puigdemont is just free in Germany. Counselors are in freedom in Belgium. Mrs. Clara Ponsati is a teacher in Scotland. And what happens in Spain that, for the same reasons, for the exact same reasons, they are in prison with their companies? Their companies, who know them, who were here, with you, arguing, of course they are. What do we have to do in this debate now? To argue, to argue, only to miss! But do we have to put someone in jail to argue? For debate? Why did I open a civic center? It's that... I honestly don't, don't... as I don't understand, I say to them: "I don't understand. And, therefore, I think it may be you who are living in a parallel reality. Because I assure you that a large part, most of the people of Catalonia, do not understand, do not understand that this may be happening. And he says, "Is this the government you wanted? - I'd give it to me, wouldn't I? So no, it's not the government I wanted, of course not! Of course it's not the government I wanted! It's because I didn't want to be President of the Generality, because there was already a President of the Generality, who was Mr Puigdemont. It is that the vice president, Pere Aragonès, did not want to be the vice president of this government, because there was already one, that was Mr. Oriol Junqueras. Therefore, listen to me, we know very well the role we are playing. That's why we come up with a deep, also symbolizing – which also symbolises – that record for which they are not and for which we want them to be back here as soon as possible. And, finally, companies, partners, friends of the Republican Left, I think that in these three points of reversing 155, of caring for everyone, of sailing for the weakest and of iron republic overflowing the autonomic mark, they are three principles that I absolutely share – absolutely – and that we share all the members of the government. I liked that you used the "team" word. I don't know how to work any other way. For all my professional life, before I joined the presidency of the Generality, and during the years I worked at the private company, it seemed to me that I've always worked as a team. I hope this is the government's experience, because working as a team will have a stronger government, sure. What is exceptional is the political moment. But no one has any doubt about the strength of this government. And friend Eduard Pujol, Junts spokesman for Catalonia, many thanks for your words. I would also like to address everyone at the assembly of Members; no longer the independenceist majority, but at the assembly of Members, especially the commons; I think..., we will see if the Socialist Party too, maybe even with Ciutadans or with the PP. We were going to pass some social laws together, unanimously. Well, I hope that's possible. We have a hugely complicated job to go on and it'll be nice to negotiate and talk a lot. I don't know, you have a lot of work, the deputies of this Parliament, and my job, if you'll excuse me, is this: you talk, you talk. That if the discussions are tough, they are; but always respect is over the toughness of the dialectic debate. And yes, Eduard, we will decide, is the people of Catalonia the only one who can decide their future. And no, the heart we don't have, the heart is from the city of Catalonia that brought us here. It's this, it's the people who brought us here. We must always be very present that we are here for the people and for the freedom of our people. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.37.0	Thank you, President. It is now the return of the Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. I remember them having five minutes per group and two minutes and a half per subgroup. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.38.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Generalitat, I shall be very brief. We will continue to remember his xenophobic and supremacist articles throughout the legislature. [[applause]] – the whole legislature. And not only here – not only here – in Europe you have already found out who you are, you have already found out. Now you have to know who Mrs Borràs is, who the rest of the members of the government are. Because really what you think, that you have written, that you have defended is hardly forgotten, especially when it is in the hands or in the head of a president of the Generalitat. You said: "When I go to Brussels, I meet with the ex-advisors. Who will he meet if no one receives him in Europe, if no European institution receives him? Who are you meeting with? Either with them or with the only parties at European level that have given them support, which is the far right. The only ones, yes. Remember who was the first or the first to see Mr Puigdemont in prison: extreme right. You have not been able to meet with any European institution. He couldn't. Because they neither receive you nor receive Mr Puigdemont. You are alone in Europe – you are alone in Europe –, not like us, that we can go to the European Parliament, which we talk to Vice-Presidents of the European Commission, quietly within the ALDE Group. You are alone in Europe with the extreme right and with the nationalists. Then, you have a very authoritarian approach to justice, absolutely authoritarian. Do you think we can call a judge to tell him who has to go out or go to jail? No, no, That is what you intend to do with your Transitional Law. I remind you that the Law of Transition you signed here, you voted here, said that « the President of the Generalitat – that is, you – « could choose to finger the members of the Supreme Court. And besides, they didn't even have to be judges, they could be jurists, that is, their law-licensed friends, basically. You want to transfer that authoritarian approach to the opposition. We do not have this approach. Separation of powers, justice. And you said: "They have taken a few sentences out of context from my articles. That's not true. But it has to be taken out of context that there are people who are in jail for opening a civic center, that is to take out of context a jurisdictional self. [[Greetings.]] I would like to return the question that you asked me, Mr. Torra: What do you say to those people who arrived forty-fifty years ago from other parts of Spain..., from other parts of Spain to Catalonia to raise Catalonia with their hands and who now have to listen as their Culture Counsellor calls them "linguistic colonizers? [[Greetings.]] What do you tell these people? [[Greetings.]] What do you say to people who came from other countries when you wrote "is the risk that the Catalan-born woman" is undone as a sugar in a jar of l'allau immigratori? What do you say to immigrants, Mr. Torra? What do you say to these public servants who have had to shut up and go to work, full of yellow bonds, without being able to say what they think? Or even that some have had to leave their job and we don't have them very far away. What do you say to all those who have had to shut up because there was a clear ideology in the public administration imposed by a nationalist government? What do you tell those families who have stopped talking to brothers and sisters, brothers and sisters, and friends about independence? What do these families not exist? What are not the people who have argued, but not as a discussion of Barça or Madrid, no, no, of breaking relationships because of this social fracture? I'll tell you one thing. Only those of the yellow bow that look at those of the yellow bow, that is, that see only a part of Catalonia, can deny the social fracture between Catalans. [[Greetings.]] Only you can deny it. [[Greetings.]] Do you believe that the Catalans who do not have a yellow link do not have humanity, are not worthy? What are these lessons of moral supremacy? "We carry the bond because we have humanity. What happens, that those of us who do not wear a yellow tie have no humanity? Are you already doing those supremacist theses? " Do we have humanity because we have a yellow link, if you do not have it, is it that you do not have humanity? Stop repeating yourself in his supremacism, which is very bad for him since the President of the Generalitat. The symbol. The Palau of the Generalitat is not yours. It's not yours, Mr. Torra, it's all Catalans. The streets aren't yours, they're all yours. The beaches aren't yours, they're all yours. The squares aren't yours, they're all Catalans. With your occupation of the public space and the institutions of the Generalitat, which is even worse, you are proving that you are believed to be, only, Catalonia. And no capacity and predisposition to dialogue. If you pretend that we have to accept that the Palau de la Generalitat is presided over by a banner with a yellow link, it is that you are cutting the dialogue. It's just that he doesn't have any...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.39.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.40.0	...no desire to dialogue; you want to confront. And I tell you, to end, you, rule, no. The laws... we already know that you made laws knowing that you were going to be suspended. I have Mr. Salvadó's e-mail, an e-mail from Mrs. Vergés, saying: "This law will be suspended in the minute one, so... don't consider yourself tight to keep it in few months, eh? knowing it was a modus operandi. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes..., making laws that were to be suspended.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.41.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.42.0	And, to end – and to end – you want us to get hot – in a political, confrontational sense – to the municipal ones. And he escaped you in the investiture session. You're not going to rule, you're going to confront. You're not gonna solve problems, you're gonna generate them. For what? For the municipal authorities to arrive and you sell them as a plebiscite between 'yes' and 'no' to independence. And it's a real irresponsibility. What I would have to do – in order to finish – is to commit to respecting the laws...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.43.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.44.0	...that is to respect all Catalans, and so... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.45.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. It's Mr. Miquel Iceta's return now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.46.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very honourable chairman, I have already announced that the five minutes will be short, because the president has had the nerve to ask me a few questions, and I would not like to leave it unanswered, even if some say: « You do not! It's to reverse the dialog... no. No, I think that hemicicle is to speak, to share, to contrast, to settle down and sometimes simply to disagree. I would like to make one thing clear from the principle: « What does Pedro Sánchez think? I hope you can have the chance to share it with him soon enough, and I wouldn't like it... There was a phrase from some French: "It's me, it's him. And so, you talk to him. But, yes, I venture to say without saying, I believe, I risk making a mistake: Pedro Sánchez, President of the Government of Spain, will defend the territorial integrity of Spain and the validity of the Constitution throughout the territory. It's his obligation. [[Greetings.]] So, no, we can do whatever we want about this. You said: "PSOE 1974, self-determination. Yes, and 1978, Constitution. You asked: "Civil rights and freedoms. For us, this is Constitution and legality, which can obviously be changed. And so... to modify a law, what's to be done? Through the mechanisms that the same law incorporates and through the majorities necessary to do so: Catalonia, two thirds. Without two thirds, he's not pulling into the ravine– I'm a small council that I own, that I haven't been asked for. One hundred and fifty-five, who is not responsible? Who decided to skip the law, and activated a constitutional forecast. I know we don't agree with this, but all the time, I think it's okay for someone to remember them. You know? I have, with many years in politics, many things that I think I didn't do well, which I was wrong. One of the things I think is that maybe we didn't insist enough on the disaster that would happen if it went the way you decided to go. And, therefore, this time I don't want to do this toilet. And, therefore, even though I am at risk of being weighed down or repeating myself, I will not fail to say so. Three. You're under suspicion. President, I... you certainly know, but if you don't, I'm going back to the table. Before filing a constitutional appeal, the Government of Spain and the affected Government have a negotiation procedure. Then, it's a little more complicated, but that doesn't mean it can't be done again, because, actually, it can be presented again to Parliament. And I would recommend, modestly, to try, in the case of already suspected laws, this scheduled procedure of discussion, because if it is touched wills– and I agree with you– with fears that they are the competence of the Generality and public policies on which the Generality must be able to act, it is very worthwhile to find the way that you allow it. The Generalitat..., better said, the Government of Catalonia can act against the poor energy, against housing emergence? Yes, you have to. And we have to find a way to do that, because, over competing questions, there are political questions. More things: Borrell. Look, listen, Borrell, first of all, she's a citizen of Catalonia. It's a people's catalade. It is the man who when he was President of the European Parliament, the català took the maximum use of the chamber. [[Greetings.]] It is true that many of us want it to be official language, but the European Parliament tells us – it tells us –: "Make it official first in your country and then go here and explain it to me. I, of course, have it. And, therefore, let us not project some problems that... you already know: « The world looks at us, « Europe waits for us, etcetera. Well, some problems may be that we solve them here first. Tell him, of all ways: you have animated me and tomorrow with great pleasure I will go to the hold of a magnificent president of Spanish Foreign Affairs, and my friend, who is said to be Josep Borrell. On the subject of exile. Miri, for me exile is what was actually produced, when you told the Republic, which brought so many Catalans to the camp of Algiers. He is an exile after a civil war, produced by a coup d'état, military, against a constitution. It is true that we would not find, perhaps, mechanisms of common denomination of the phenomenon that has occurred with our compatriots who have wanted to leave to try to escape the action of justice, let us say it as usual, but I would not say 'exile', because it seems to me that it is demerice, that it is disfigure the exile that, yes, the Catalans suffered from from from the year 39. [[Greetings.]] But that's what he's got. Council of the Republic. It's not that we haven't just seen him, it's that we're radically against him. We said to him: "You have some obligations. One of them is not to erode our institutions of self-government. And for us, any successors erode prestige and authority...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.47.0	Mr. Iceta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.48.0	Yes, I've already said it, President... if I may, with a few seconds...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.49.0	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.50.0	He didn't talk about the election assembly today. Better. Finally, republic? For me, republic is citizenry, it's right, aspiration of equality and justice. We'll find each other here, sure. I Prat de la Riba..., I would like fervently, President, that in a few years' time his work of government held the name, the prestige that the work of government of Prat de la Riba took place. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.51.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. It is now the turn, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, of Mr Xavier Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.52.0	It seems that the Socialist Party of Catalonia and the president have found a point against Prat de la Riba. It was unexpected, this possible solution. I was fast. So, you're telling me that at these times there are not two honest buildings, twenty-four dwellings, three solar buildings... – and I say one in concrete: a pee in the street Blasco de Garay – that are below the public feeling the property of the Government of Catalonia? Tell me, here, clearly, why the sub-up will be stopped immediately. I, if not, don't lie. On the subject of..., you told me: "No, it is that the policies that are related to equality, to the fight against male violence are cross-cutting. That's the solution, we all know it, easy, and easy excuse. In other words, a public policy is resources, objectives and instruments. And the best instrument for a public policy, which ensures that it is effectively cross-cutting, at these times it is an advice for equality, and that we all know, and other places are doing precisely that. Then, on the subject of the Government..., look, in this country we have dyed the Pujol governments – and their name only already defined them all, it is the same, it does not fit to look for a label to the Government. We have had the governments that have meant governments of progress; we have had the governments of the best, with illusion, eh? , the ESADE boys, who was the government of the best, of 2010, with very much illusion. We've got this. And we have... we can now enter a surreal phase of the definition of governments, because we have had a government that is said to be a government of post-autonomy and pre-independence, right? And now, what stage are we in? Because you say to me: "No, this is a government of republicans. So I say, well, I agree. But is he a government of the republic? Because he also says to me: "No, look, there is a board, a free space... A free space that with this seminthic game so absolutely..., so català – this seminthic game so català – a few months ago it was "Council of the Republic", and from a certain moment, without warning, it was converted into "Council for the Republic"; from "of, to "per. So, it turned from something that was said to exist, into something that was recognized as non-existent and wanted to build. I think it would be worth being honest about the situation we are in, beyond political will. And this brings me to the central point that here..., I think we should have this debate long... – there will be the round – which is the topic of the dialog. Internal dialogue, dialogue with the Government of the State. They're already gone. It is to say, if you say it, before entering the table, that is what will be said there, and then Mr. Iceta answers it: "Look, I say it as Mr. Pedro Sánchez will go. I'd... I'd ask you a favor: don't tell me until you sit on the table. Don't say king, because I think it's the best you can do for the dialog. I mean, it's obvious that Mr. Pedro Sánchez won't go there proclaiming Catalonia's independence, that's... – Surely Citizens and the PP will say yes, but we all know she's lying. And it's obvious that you wouldn't go there saying, "Look, we want an autonomous state, we're fantastically good here. So, as we all know, it's better to take a look at the table and not go explaining what. Because a dialect, because it has results, has to have a principle. It's true, no one has to give up anything before the table, but... and everyone has to recognize the interlocutors, and they have to have agreed. So, that's the basic principle: if there's no willingness to agree, we can do rhetoric, then we can say what we'll do before, and what we'll do after, but above all we'll have agreed to it. And this brings me to the internal debate, which again becomes a symbolic debate. Now, passionately, everyone has come out to explain why the deep loops don't have to be, why the deep loops have to be, and it's also very catalative again, huh? Citizens: I want to tell you, I've always said that, huh? But I'm an extremely Catalan party. I mean, I'm extremely Catalan too; I mean, because it's all coming back to these debates. That's right. Here's a theme that we have to face once in a while: the 1st of October. October 1 was an extraordinary exercise in asserting sovereignty. It was. We've been there. There were the schools, there was there... it was absolutely spectacular. But October 1st is for a part of the people of Catalonia, it is not for the conjunction of the people of Catalonia, and it cannot, playing with the words, say « Council for the Republic, or « of the Republic, « pre-independence, « post-autonomy, do not assume reality. The reality is that, obviously, a dialect must also be opened in this country – a dialect must be opened in this country – in order to be able to make a proposal for a country – a country – that also includes the solution for each of the aspirations – that places the solution for each of the aspirations – but that the proposal is from the country's side, and not from one side. Because, if not, one side feels shut down, and the other side feels deeply frustrated. And that's, I think, the dialog, and no... and enough symbolism, please. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.53.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. It is now the return of Mrs. Nattalia Sánchez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.54.0	Very quick. President Torra, do you know why we tell him that his government is an autonomous government? Because on November 9, 2015, this Parliament adopted a resolution which said that when the sovereignty of this Parliament came into conflict with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, we would be faithful to the sovereignty of this Parliament, and you, until now – the facts speak for themselves – have not been. That is why I say it autonomous, not because the CUP - Creed Constituent is very capricious, but because it speaks of resolutions approved in this Parliament. And we're also talking about a neoliberal government, because when I listen to it, I think: "Ostres, so, look, the music can sound good, but, of course, the team that has chosen to develop something that we think is quite full of rhetoric..., what do you think, of private public management? This furnace that you want for the father, this furnace that you want to manage, that symbolizes it with sovereignty, what will it be, public or private? The breads that this oven will make, who will they enrich? To the people who need to eat this bread, or to the real owner of this oven, who today, the team of which you have sufficed, or who have simply sufficed it, bet, until now, for what we know, for the private public management of sanitation, education and many other questions; proposals that we have been negotiating. We said to them: "There will be no sovereignty or republic if we do not bet on public management of those strategic sectors, if we do not bet on a public bank, and Mr. Pere Aragonès proposed to us to make a commission. So... we're basing ourselves on facts and these facts, these facts we're talking about. I'm done. I can't help it. Mr. Iceta, do you know who Mr. Borrell is, too? It is the man who accompanied Vera and Barrionuevo to prison, sentenced for the LAG. And he said that defending them was his future project! More like, do you know who Mr. Borrell is, too? It is the ideal, like the Minister of Public Works, that made the proposal for the macrotransvasion of the Ebre in 1973. This man is Borrell. A hydrological plan much better than that of the government of Aznar. This is Borrell, who you now have, thanks to some, to manage the international relations of the Spanish State. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.55.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. It is now the return of Mr Xavier García Albiol, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.56.0	Mr. President, after listening to your – and first – intervention, and above all the reply, I have to tell you that I have the impression and we have the conviction that you will fall back into the same mistakes as Mr. Puigdemont's government. He has given us all the impression – and for his explanations – that he is a government that will continue to install in the path that marked the process. It is true that the name was changed; I suppose, then, that they are now looking for another type of qualification. But in the end, what you want to insist on is a government that doesn't give priority to the real needs of the Catalans and that continues to be installed in the division and only to attend to what a part of the Catalan people thinks. And some..., the maintenance of some dependencies, the maintenance of some departments, like those who serve Diplomat, who want to open embassies, or the d'Exterior, I think they are a good example of the evil way that the Government of Catalonia will surely follow in the proper months. And let me also insist on a question that has generated a certain debate, that I have to tell you that since the People's Party we have entered in a very relative way, because we are not interested, and it is the debate of the deep loops. You pointed that out, here you made various references to the subject of the deep loops. Look, you're very free to carry the ties you consider opportune, and the deputies and the deputies, you'd just miss it. Home, but we would certainly ask you that if you really, as a minimum, want to give the appearance that you are the president of all Catalans, man, that the institutions that are of all can be on the margin of this attitude. You pointed out in your intervention that you want to be the president of all Catalans, then, it is certain that your..., the rest of the intervention did not accompany..., for this way, but would be very positive, I think it would be very convenient to do these things. Therefore, the links do not represent the freedom of some people who are in prison to open civic centers or for their thinking; the links, for you, the ones who represent, the ones who do, the ones who really represent is an ideological block, an empty block from one part of the Catalan population. And above all, I say it and I say it with all respect, a fallacy, because in this country, which is Spain, no one is imprisoned or put in prison for their ideas. Those people are placed in prison, first, who consider the judgments and, then, who have skipped the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.57.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. It's Mrs. Anna Caula's return now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.58.0	Getting out after Mr. Albiol always... [[Pause.]] Good morning, again. First, address me, therefore, to Mr. Iceta as the representative of the Socialist Party. Actually, after his first intervention, I got out of here... so, well, no? It's always nice to have this more extended, this vision of opposition as it builds up or as it extends its hand, especially in social policies, which we would probably agree with, but, of course, I was listening to it now in this second intervention... Actually, I also have to recognize it, right? , that from you can learn a lot, from how we express the different interventions, and, even so, sometimes at this level of irony or, sometimes, that thread even of cynicism. But, Tanmateix, the other day he calculated it, didn't he? And I thought that if you devoted all my work life to politics, I don't think I'd catch it. So, I think I can learn a lot from it, but, also, I would really like to listen to proposals for a new policy, wouldn't I? , normally, to see how to look at the future and maybe transform it with tools that until this moment have not been used. They're talking about dialogue and negotiation. Perfect, forward, we've been waiting for it for eight years, with the least. There's all of them, these eight years, you've already remembered us. Don't set us a starting point, don't deny or leave October 1; it's an undisputed democratic data, and a data of institutional state violence, a repressive state to which you now govern and represent. The starting point is said to be freedom. The second concept word that you certainly didn't mention a single copy. Freedom of prisoners, return of exiles, close to prisoners. And he doesn't love after the trials, he takes his responsibility instead of always talking about consequences, so... like that one who didn't behave badly and we already told him. This whole paternalism time and again. The consequences are their decisions, and their choice about the country and the state they offer us. Forward, more extensive; but more extensive to build, to look at the world in a different way. Address us to Ciutadans. So much! You persist in the fracture; I felt one shot at another. It's the same speech. Every time they come out here at the Faristol I have the feeling of feeling the same again. We talk about what we're talking about, they come out and repeat the same speech. When we talk about what we will do, he expresses his desire for disaster, for division, for confrontation between Catalans. I can tell him he won't get married. They have nothing to say about the real country or the government that has just presented itself, nor the priorities that have been mentioned to us. They start talking about constructive things, don't always wander into the division. To you, today, I believe that the policies that the President has explained are not the ones that have bothered them; what follows is that what bothers them is that we have an effective government that can begin to work for the sake of citizenship, of all citizenship. And, yes, I have to admit, sometimes we don't share his way of doing it, it's true: I would never be happy that you were in prison – ever. You're my political rival, and I want you in the field. I come out on the track and, from you to you, what I do..., try to win, with the same tools, this political rival – because that's what it is. [[applause]] : a political rival. And stop lying; stop lying, because you are the only ones in this Parliament who have done electoral coalition with the extreme right, the year 2009, with Libertas. We remember: we will continue to build, to govern for everyone, to make Catalonia, if possible, the most integrated, equitable and socially advanced country in Europe. I, to finish, therefore, address the commons. I think we will find ourselves there; we will find ourselves in the different progressive policies that we want to develop, in all those that worry us, for the benefit of the citizens. Not like the PP and its ex-government, which has tried to destroy the great consensus of Catalan society. I believe that with you we will find ourselves; we will find ourselves in the defense of the Catalan school; we will find ourselves in the defense of the social rights that we expect for our citizens. That's why, tanmateix, you're always going to add up to build a better country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.59.0	Thank you, Mrs. Caula. And now, finally, it's Mr. Eduard Pujol's turn, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.60.0	Well, it's my turn to close the session. They say to me at home: "Look to laugh a little more, because you're fat and when you're too serious, too serious," he says, "you can't interpret or read your goodness well. So, so, this advice that they give me at home, the first thing I do is pass it on to Mrs. Arrimadas. Now I see it smiling, and I like it; I like to see it smiling, because I see it often too much undertaken. I would say..., if you don't want to say undertaken, I'll say angry. But here comes, often – often, often – an angry mass hair. And Mrs. Caula was right, as we speak of the first government, the governance structure, a proposal for a resolution, the investment debate, the reply, the counter-reply, it is the same, it always makes the same speeches; repetitions, repetitions, everything again, always the same speeches. The truth is that I would have liked to hear a single reference to the structure of Governor Torra, a single – a single –; no empty words, more or less generic, and come, and shield barred, and repeat... Why do you know what I'm saying to him? That this worked very well for them. That's... that's true, you're a political lab, a way of doing politics in a lab: a little bit of that, a little bit of that, a little bit of demagogic, a little bit of demagogic, a little bit of demagogic, a little bit of demagogic, a little bit of demagogic... And that went well. That was good for them; it was good for them and congratulations. But this has a limit, and the limit is reality. And you've come across reality. Do you know what I'm saying? That you will get a surprise, because you also have a lot of voters... I fixed that sometimes we have discrepancies; I can speak with a discrepancy of you, or of Mr Carrizosa – who now does not see it – or of any other Members; but I have a huge respect for your constituents. Because among your voters there are many – and this also happens with the Socialist Party –..., you have many voters who do not agree with repression. You have a lot of voters who put their hands to the head with repression. And you don't have to be conscious. Today, the repte of the reply, Mrs. Arrimadas – who does not listen to me – the repte of the reply was, in a way, to remove the word "supremacist", so that we already have the size of the veil for the Telediario of the three. Listen to me, forget to turn this into a platter; this is not a platter, this is a Parliament. You had to find the "supremacist" word, and, of course, in the end, even though you don't, even though you don't come to it, in the end we've got the "supremacist" word, so we have the size for the three-way. More things. I am convinced – I am convinced – that Mr.Iceta is telling the truth when he proposes a dialog. Also congratulations for your interventions and for all of it – sometimes the whole thing doesn't do the thing, but go... But I think you're supporters of the dialog, because before we met in Parliament we had already spoken and shared it all. And I recognize him in this country. But to the Lords of City I do not recognize them as willing to speak, because you in not speaking are very comfortable. In fact, you need to not talk to make your own speech and to try to live... who sees Matrix are you, this Matrix of not talking, so you can invent a reality that doesn't exist. I return to say solemnly: in Catalonia there is no social fracture. And we won't play the game, – we won't play the game –, we won't play the game, I won't give her the taste, we won't play the game to insist or let her go through this speech. There's no social fracture. There are very different opinions, there are opposite opinions, but this is not a social fracture. You'd want the social fracture, and that's the toilet I'm doing them. More things. Mr. Iceta, I told you, he doesn't do the thing. "Maintaining territorial unity, he told me that this is the proposal, the political will of Pedro Sánchez. So, miri, ours is defending the ballot box. Catalonia is a nation, whether it is as if it is not; we are a nation and have political rights. And we will defend our political rights to organize ourselves politically as the citizens of Catalonia decide that we must organize ourselves. So, dial. But knowing what it is, too – what it is, too – is our way of hearing the world. I'm done. Mr. Torra, thank you; thank you for explaining the feeling of the deep place with the ability...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.61.0	Mr. Pujol, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.62.0	...to make it very, very easy. I say, I insist, thank you. And one last thing: I told him that I liked his government; I told him that his speech, his intervention, his government exposure pleased me; but his reply did not only please me, but I found it to have been an exhibition. And an exhibition...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.63.0	Mr. Pujol, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.64.0	...that draws a very powerful political profile, which is exactly where a part of this hemisphere will never forgive it: a very powerful political ability to pull this country forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.65.0	Thank you, Mr. Pujol. This debate is over, the session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you. At the bank of his Government the President of the Generality, accompanied by the advisers of the Presidency, Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Culture and Work, Social Affairs and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.66.0	Let's resume the session. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 6/2003 of 22 April 2003 on the state of the expression of the Generality]] [[202-00007/12]] The fourth point of the order of the day is the processing in one reading of the Proposed Law of Amendment of Law 6/2003, of 22 April, of the state of the expressions of the Generality. In accordance with Rule 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia called for the single reading of this legislative initiative, and the Bureau, escorted by the Board of Spokespersons, proposed to the Plenary the application of this single reading procedure for this procedure, following the establishment of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure. In the first place, therefore, we shall proceed to the vote on the single reading of this bill. As you know, it is understood that the affirmative votes are in favour of single reading, and the negative ones, against. So now we are calling for a vote, I insist, in relation to the single reading. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] One moment – one moment. Let's call it a vote, first; let's call it a vote. [[Long break.]] All right. Please. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the single reading. I remind you, as I said before, that the affirmative votes are in favour of the single reading, and the negative votes against. If this procedure is approved for a single reading, we will then proceed to the debate at the totality of the law; otherwise, this procedure will return to the Board, which will open an ordinary procedure of approval of the law. So let us proceed to the vote on the single reading. The vote begins. The single reading of this bill was approved by 72 votes to 49, with no abstentions. Therefore, we continue to debate that, in accordance with Article 138.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the standards laid down for the totality of the debate must be substantiated. And in this case you have the word, for the presentation of the initiative... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please. The words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, for a five-minute time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.67.0	Thank you very much, President. Who would tell us that, by the hand of the most symbolic, essentialist and mystical nationalism, the one who intends to make us believe that Bishop Berenguer de Cruïlles was the first president of the Generalitat, would arrive at the highest levels of contempt of the institution of the presidency of the Generalitat of Catalonia, precisely in the symbolic, in the political and in the historical? Who was going to tell us? We would never have imagined that the very ones who pompously assert that Mr Quim Torra is the president of the Generalitat number 131, when everyone knows that it is the tenth and that the first was Macià, precisely they, would end up vetoing the presence of the President of the Generalitat in certain physical spaces of the Palau de la Generalitat..., or subjecting their political action to the strict obedience of a former president, escaped from justice, and of instruments, new institutions sui generis that clearly, I insist, discredit the figure of the Presidency of the Generalitat. Puigdemont and Torra, Torra and Puigdemont, both mount, mount so much, offer a spectacle – I regret to say with this force – grotesque that affects the dignity of the institution, and, in particular, if we focus on the actions of former President Puigdemont, they have opened a case that clearly the legislator of the year 2003 would not have imagined, because no head in his healthy judgment at that time could have come to imagine that the things that have happened, but as they have happened, clearly oblige us to change the status of the former presidents to guarantee a minimum prestige of the institutions and, why not say it, too, decorum. Firstly, in our proposal, what we ask is to ensure that the material and personal means can only be served in Catalonia. It is evidence, we could even say that it is a peregrullada, but, I insist, in a delusional situation like the one we have experienced the obvious ends up seeming exceptional and should be rescheduled. Secondly, it cannot be this plenary that ultimately decides, after a final criminal conviction, whether it occurs, whether or not the plenary can revoke those prerogatives and rights of the former president's figure. In any democracy in the world – in any democracy in the world – after a criminal conviction, if it occurs, the rights are automatically revoked; it is also another thing of common sense, it is also another peregrulated, but it is appropriate to modify in this case in order to be able to adapt to the casuistics that we have encountered. I would like to insist, in conclusion, on this last point in particular. What separatism poses in relation to the figure of the former president has no reflection in any legal system of the civilized world, in none, absolutely in none. Somebody check it out and tell me otherwise. Therefore, what we are asking for, these two measures to dignify, to bring some decorum to the institution of the presidency of the Generalitat, is that it is normal, in democracy, in our European environment. And we therefore call for support from the parliamentary groups and, above all, from a party, which has no acronyms, which is that of common sense; that some political formations forget whether they like the political group or sub-political group that makes the proposal and focus exclusively on the drafting of it, because we sincerely believe that we could be able to achieve a broad consensus. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.68.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word of Mr. Ignacio Martín, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.69.0	Yeah, hello, nice late. From the outset, we would like to say that we believe, from our group, that, if this law has been processed through a single non-reading procedure, but through an ordinary procedure..., I think that we could have had a much more intense and much more interesting debate about what the figure or state of the Generality's expressions really means, because, indeed, as Mr Fernández said, we are ahead of a new situation that in 2003 could not be predicted from the very beginning. In 2003 there were no independent parties that wanted to liquidate the Statute of Autonomy, that wanted to liquidated the Constitution, that wanted to liquidated, in short, the state of law, but there were perfectly legitimate independent parties, as they are now, but that, in any case, their proposal was not a proposal to liquidated the democratic institutions, of which we have endowed ourselves among all the citizens. Therefore, it is true that there is a new situation, a situation created, precisely, at the height of the process, of the political process that we have experienced in Catalonia these last few years. I believe that, as Members and independent groups often say, the right must have the capacity to adapt to the new realities that it must order, which it must regulate. And this is evidence in any democratic society, but that's precisely why the citizens in these societies have mechanisms, we have tools, we have tools – in this case, for example, reinforced majorities by certain laws, the principle of legality, the principle of competence – that make it not everyone or that it is not all possible to change, that it is not all possible to regularize in a given parliament, but that it has determined things for which the Parliament of Catalonia has competence and others for which there is no competence, and it is absolutely normal in the framework of a composite state like ours. Therefore, in this Parliament, we would have the opportunity, all of us, to make a reform of a law, which I believe the common sense tells us that, effectively, an expression of the Generality, which must be looked at to dignify the institution of the Presidency of the Generality, after having been president, the most logical thing is that, first, you are rooted in Catalonia – I believe that this is an absolutely common sense – and, secondly, also, that you do not have, that I do not think about criminal convictions. I don't think anyone believes that the fact that a generalist has a criminal conviction on his or her agenda is a merit for doing this task that requires honorability, institutional dignity and a sense of state. It is obvious that anyone who has a criminal conviction will hardly be able to carry out this task. The will is..., the question is whether there was political will in this Parliament to reform these characteristics. And I, unfortunately, think that no, because, I insist, what it is about is that no one can patrimonize the Catalan institutions, which are all of them, simply. This debate that we are having today, which we consider to have been a much more rational, much more reasonable, much more substantial, if we were to have been a debate by the ordinary way and not in one reading, is a debate that we need to do precisely because we are ahead of a situation that is very inverse, rather unheard of, in the wake of a democratic state, such as the fact that the two most recent representatives of the Generality that we have encountered have caused a situation in Catalonia, in terms of the march, of the flight of workers, which is absolutely devastating for the Catalan economy, which has had some effects, for the Catalan workers, terrible, and for the very competitiveness of the Catalan economy. Those who have committed the fire of confrontation with the rest of Spain on a constant basis, waiting for photography to appeal to victimism and try to generate a confrontation and a break with the rest of Spain; those who try to take hold of the public institutions of Catalonia which, logically, in a state of normality, should preserve neutrality, and, ultimately, those who are willing to feed the social confrontation because they are no longer talking about the cases of corruption that exist in Catalonia, that, even if they change their names, they will always be the same and cannot deceive the Catalans about the authentic ones responsible for the struggle that our institutions suffer..., or, in any case, those responsible shared, but here there is a will, at all times, to say that all those responsible for the political struggle that they are suffering from, or, in any case, they are responsible, but here there is a will, at all times, to say that the whole of Parliament is an attack or a crisis, at all, at all times. So no; there are many things that Catalans of good, independent or not independent, want to improve on their land, their government, and that many times they find with this lack of will or with this topall, which is the fact of saying: "No, count, these are anti-Catalans. No, no; wanting to improve the institutions and the dignity of the Presidency of the Generality is not to be antiquated, nor good. Therefore, this proposal has felt from the point of view of the current legislation, it has felt above all because there are some of the changes proposed by both the proposing group, of the People's Party, as well as our considerations, which go in the line precisely to guarantee this principle of legality and this principle of competence. What is not possible is that some claim that the dignity or honour of an expression who may suffer or who may give him a final criminal sentence should be decided exclusively by the Members of the Parliament of Catalonia. No, if a judge says, let's say, it causes a conviction on an expression, the honorability I believe that in practice, in fact and of course, you have lost it and, therefore, I cannot expect the majority of Parliament to say so. With this logic that prevails a lot in the process, to say that the Parliament is above the laws, that the Parliament is above the State, that the Parliament is above the Constitution, surely it has heard; but in a democratic state of right it has no sense, neither in Catalonia, nor in Spain, nor in the state of our environment. What do we want from the Parliament of Catalonia? Kill Kelsen? , kill what is all the constitutional theory that comes from after the Second World War, which tells us that who rules has powers to do many things, but not to skip legality, nor to liquidate the State, nor to liquidate the Constitution, nor to liquidate the resolutions of the Constitutional Court? So we believe that, effectively, this reform is necessary for all these reasons. Let us not forget that an expression of the Generality that must be done is to continue working for the dignity of the institution. Supposedly he had to defend this dignity when he was in charge and he has to keep doing it later. It may be recalled that the President of the Generalitat, according to this law of the year 2003, has, among other things, an office, and this office has an official. And I want to remind the citizen of Catalonia and all the deputies present in this chamber that the head of this office is charging no more than €98,000 in the year. I do not know if it is reasonable to have, for example in the case..., one of our papers goes in the line of saying that those presidents who are not in Catalonia or who are developing an elected office here or the central institutions of the State and are not, therefore, in Barcelona..., I do not know how far you have ever felt that the office is still or continues to be open with its responsible correspondent and with this I am just commenting. It is simply looking for the interests of the Catalans' conjunction, not for anything else. Therefore, our will is only to improve the governance of Catalonia, to improve the institutions of self-government and, above all, to dignify the institution of the Presidency, which in principle was the primary objective of this law; as I had understood, this was the main objective of this law. I think there's a sequence of elements that we need to get laid if this is the law or not. And there's a phone question. I am convinced that the independent parties will tell us: "No, it is an ad hoc law. It is made ad hoc in the case of President Puigdemont or in the case of President Mas, who are liable to be convicted or, in the case of President Mas, already convicted. Whether or not the sentence remains firm..., that in our case what we consider is that when it is not firm, it is final but not firm, what we claim is that these rights and prerogatives are suspended, not that it is annulled, but only that they are suspended, and when they become firm, that these rights and prerogatives are logically repealed, that it is not possible to enjoy that which is not worthy of our enjoyment. So I think that from this point of view what we have to..., as from a philosophical point of view, I pose them to the deputies of the sovereignist bench or, even so, to the deputies of Podemos if they do not consider that from the point of view of the Kantian philosophical theory, from the point of view of the categorical empire, what they pose from the People's Party, or even all these points that we plant, that we consider to greatly improve the text of the People's Party, that in reverse rejects our arguments – I think that you have not felt, but in any case is your decision–, do they not believe from the point of view of the categorical empire, that what you say is that a principle is morally valid when it is universal? I believe that this principle which we are laying down with this proposal for reform is, in effect, consistently universal, regardless of who I have laid it. Mr. Fernández told us to forget all about who is proposing this reform. I forget, our group is absolutely oblivious; oblivious to what we say: is it or is it not, from the point of view of the principle, let us say it, philosophical, as I said before, of the categorical empire, is it or is it not a good measure? Is it or isn't it a good measure? Does or does not the institution of the Presidency of the Generality dignify the fact that someone who has been sentenced, with a firm conviction, cannot enjoy these rights and prerogatives? , that someone who is not, who is not physically present in Catalonia, by personal decision, cannot enjoy these prerogatives? I think everything folded up does... or even everything that is exercising a private or public charge still can't enjoy these prerogatives? I believe that everything that he does is, precisely, to improve the law and to tend every time more towards the dignity of the institution of the Generality, which is, of course, the objective that he informed Law 6/2003 and that he informs now, as at least, the position of my group, which is exactly what we are asking for. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And with this I conclude, Mr President, by saying, therefore, that we will vote in favour of the proposal of the People's Party, which we believe would have been better done through the ordinary procedure and which our views believe would greatly improve the text submitted for the proposing group. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.70.0	Thank you, Mr. Martin. Then there's a twist against Mr. Alejandro Fernández. Two minutes and a half, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.71.0	I'll do it from my own seat. Yes; thank you, President. Just to move two things in a telegraphic way. Firstly, the fact that the separatist formations in the past mandate distorted the figure of the single reading does not mean that this, when it scrupulously complies with what the Regulation says, can happen now. It seems that now generates a fear, as if that meant legitimizing what happened in the last legislature. On the contrary, we believe that in this case – review the Rules of Procedure well – it fits perfectly. With regard to the amendments that have been tabled, I should first like to thank you for having tabled them, of course, but we believe that they do not improve the text. The first... We consider that the regime of incompatibilities is already perfectly defined; it is of the few things that are already perfectly defined, and therefore we do not believe that it is cause for change. And in addition, in any case, you too enter into a certain inconsistency, because to this very day what you had proposed was always the total elimination of the office of the former president. And secondly, the second amendment..., to see, withdrawing the rights and prerogatives of the former president before a final judgment for us is excessively severe. And, on the other hand, returning those rights and prerogatives to him when he completes the sentence is excessively goodistic. And I'll explain myself. Why? Because one thing is reintegration, that there are already mechanisms, when a person is serving a sentence, so obviously, to reintegrate himself into society. But that has nothing to do with returning to an institutional position that requires absolute exemplaryness. Therefore, those are the two reasons, I think they were explained objectively, reiterating the thanks for the amendments, but we do not believe that they improved the text in any way. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.72.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Now, to fix its position, it has the word in the first place, and for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.73.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members of Parliament, the spokespersons who preceded me in the use of the paragraph, an interesting debate around both the legislative procedure in which we are all taking part today in this session, as well as respecting, let us say, the substance of the question of the initiative which is being considered by the plenary. In the first term, I would like to explain the position of our group in relation to the legislative procedure. We, as we have seen, have voted against this single reading initiative and consider, as the Ciutadans Group sees it, that this initiative has been more ad hoc than it has been in the ordinary legislative procedure. We understand the arguments of Mr Fernández, of the People's Party, in the sense that the evil used in the past of this unique reading procedure does not invalidate it in future uses that may have felt, from the point of view both of the Regulation as, I would add, of the guiding criteria that it gave, I believe, enough to close the Council of State Guarantees – among others, in Opinion 7 of 2017–, but we understand that it lacks something. That is to say, we do not discuss that from the point of view of the incidence of the legislative change, therefore, it is limited to introducing two aspects that we will then enter to study, and that from the point of view of technical complexity, certainly..., it is not, from the point of view of technical complexity, an initiative that needs to be carried out by the ordinary way. But it is, in change, from the point of view that the Council of State Guarantees has placed on us from the table, that it is a sensitive matter, that probably does not give or does not give enough consent between the political forces as to proceed through the one-way reading. And it is for this reason that our group believes that it has been better that we have had, all folds, all parliamentary groups and subgroups, of course, the opportunity to discuss it in a legislative context, where there is time to discuss the matter, which is certainly interesting, which we have been able to attend in the debate that you have held with the citizen spokesman. In any case, the initiative itself, as I said, basically introduces two modifications to the current regulation. In a first term, what it does is to focus on the fact that the personal and material resources, in reality the support, let's say, almost logistical type, which is lent to the expression of the Generality of Catalonia through the office, therefore, is loaned to Catalonia. It seems you're absolutely reasonable that this is what it is. On the other hand, the second question that comes in is that if there's a firm feeling, so, it's lost, it's revoking honors, huh? , and this series of prerogatives that attend the representatives of the Government of Catalonia. It also seems reasonable to us, because in the case that now, with the proposal of the PP, it would be a distinction that we simply were all and all connoisseurs and connoisseurs because it was public and aware that there is some cause that causes you to lose, let's say, the honorability of the representatives of the Government of Catalonia, has a feeling that there is a public debate, a political debate, that the chamber votes if you revoke or do not revoke these honors. But in the case of a firm feeling I think that we should all assume that there should be an automaticism that should not depend on a certain political majority that is revoked or is not revoked in these honors, when more could be given the circumstance, not necessarily, but could be given the circumstance that this political majority was the same that had supported this expression of the Generality of Catalonia. Therefore, the two aspects introduced by the PP initiative seem reasonable to us. It's true that it exists, I think, hovering over this debate the context, as in all parliamentary debates, isn't it? And, therefore, in this context, certainly the accusation that it is an ad hoc initiative, therefore, has a sense too, huh? And I believe – and I will already be forgiven by Mr Fernández who says so – that in the background this is actually in the experience of the initiative. But I have to agree with Ciutadan's spokesman when he said that what we need to do is to examine the concrete changes that are introduced into the regulations and to think if they really have the value of general arrangement and can be valid in any situation. He did it with more flying, huh? I'm not going to quote Kant again, because I think it might be weird for us to do it all the time, but I certainly think I'd like to take this exam. And, like all the two changes that the People's Party initiative intends to make, seem thoughtful and reasonable, we believe that this initiative could be supported. Probably didn't get any more if we had a chance to do the ordinary legislative process and had a chance to discuss all of this further in the legislative process. We shall see that; the vote will be held on whether or not this happens this way. But in any case, we believe that we could agree to the chamber in which these two changes are perfectly valid for the situation of the expressions there is now or for what there may be in the future, because in both cases it seems thoughtful and reasonable what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.74.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Now, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it's the turn of Mrs. Elisenda Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.75.0	Well, the times we've been here in the Chamber... Mr. Albiol isn't here today; I see that it's the same absence from the plenary of Badalona, that also here, so... up to Parliament. I'd love to go to him, but today, so he's not there. Miri, many times, here in this hemisphere, they've talked about the country's priorities. The country's priorities are the hope lists of public health, which are the longest in the whole of the Spanish State; they also talked about barracks as the country's real priority, the thousand barracks that exist in public school, which leave our students in precarious conditions, and they also talked about the country's priorities being to fill the refrigerator. And I totally agree with these priorities. But when you have the opportunity to make some proposal to improve people's living conditions, you don't do it, and, in change, you have proposals that don't make progress in the better of people's living conditions, not just in modernizing institutions, not in democratic regeneration, not in transparency, not with glass walls for our administrations. This proposal is not to modernise institutions and is not to bet on democratic regeneration; this proposal is for the gallery, at a short time – apart from, proposed for a single reading, and therefore not in an open, public, complex debate that would please us all – this proposal is to look for a headline, to satisfy the media cave, because they have not provided any proposal for social or democratic improvement, as far as I know, of the People's Party. And, man, that the People's Party is talking to us about democratic regeneration and corruption, with what they're talking about... so I think it's hard for the People's Party to get democratic regeneration and the modernization of institutions out of hand. Because, with all the years of his governments, I have not seen any proposal that you suppose to advance in better democracy and benevolence for the people. To the contrary: what we have experienced is a return to rights and freedom of speech, such as the law of bites, or policies that make people more vulnerable, or that make them more unprotected, or that place them in absolute precariousness. And that's what we've seen from all their governments, because we haven't seen any better in transparency, beyond plasma. This is the People's Party's policy of transparency and democratic regeneration. I have only seen corruption and subtly from institutions of all and all to a privileged minority. That's what we've seen from the People's Party government. To talk about democratic regeneration, we should add many things: Gürtel, Púnica, Aquamed, Taula, Bárcenas, Palma Arena, Pokémon, case Champion, Bomsai, Inestur, Noos, Andratx, Cañellas, Scala, Bitel, Tourisme Joven, and a large etcetera, plundering of public arches to enrich their butxaques and those of their friends. Therefore, the People's Party's lesson in the modernization of institutions, in new practices stretching from the dark, from the opacity. They are no one to give lessons about the honorability of public bodies; they are no one to come to this room to talk about how to behave the representatives and ex-representatives of the sovereignty of the people, and they are no one for the list that I have told you before, but also for other lists of reasons that the inable fans for this: Zaplana, Mouse, Cifuentes, Matas, Ignacio González, Rita Barberá, Acebes, Ana Mato, Carlos Fabra, Francisco Granados... And so on to more than eight hundred names. This Parliament – I give you reason – must open its doors and regenerate. But it's hard for me... or it's hard to think that it'll come from the hands of the People's Party. I believe that the deputies and the deputies of this chamber are great enough to decide when and how to act honorably; we are big enough and have enough dignity to determine when someone loses confidence in this country. And there are presidents who have lost the confidence of the whole country. There have been presidents who have lost the confidence of all citizens. We also agree on this. But what you are proposing to us today is a proposal for guardianship, for political guardianship, which you know well: 135, 155, the policy of guardianship. I believe that this debate deserves a more serious and complex debate on the part of all political forces. The People's Party is not an example; it is not an example of knowing how and what to do when someone stops acting honorably. If there was a motion of censure that Mr. Rajoy had to make out after an unworthy and indecent sentence as Gürtel was. If he hasn't left for his own little. While Mr. Rajoy was making his motion of censure, he was eight hours in a bar and he was leaving his slag empty, which only occupied a bag. Is this the honorability of the institutions that you drive? Is this the decency Is the People's Party going to the institutions? So I think we should go further – we should go further – because the People's Party has already shown that it is unable to assume its responsibilities. Therefore, no, this is not the proposal that we would like to listen to for democratic regeneration, for the modernization of institutions and to end corruption. We do not accept anything, our group does not accept anything from an organization that says the UDEF is a criminal organization, designed to plunder public money in the city. That's what they say it's the People's Party. But we're talking about a new policy, about ending these dark and opaque walls. Do they want to talk about honorability of public charges? Talk to us. Of transparency, of working with glass walls? Talk to us. Because he won't find any other groups, no other political groups more interested in fighting corruption like us and doing anything else so that he doesn't come back to other public bodies or other corrupt presidents with dark and opaque practices while there are quiet deputies. We agree on that. But they don't make us believe that this is the proposal that will make possible this democratic regeneration or the modernization of our institutions, because it isn't – it isn't. Just in fact, common people decided to take the step to institutional politics by parties like theirs, by parties that did not bet to make net corruption. And we want to clean up corruption, we want to end the political mass practices, with different acronyms, that stole money from everyone and everyone. And yes, of course we do want to open the institutions to the citizenry, and of course we do want to set glass walls, and of course we also want to transform the parties into transformation tools and tools for the service of the citizenry; porous, flexible parties that assemble to the citizenry, that assemble to the citizenry of the 21st century, to the global society, that give answer to the current challenges, that give answer to the citizens' demands. Yes, we all want that, but I think that this proposal, and apart from one reading, does not make it possible for us to move forward in this matter. We want fresh air and new dynamics. That's why I think this debate is on its way and we hope that we can get it back on track. But, look, like me, many have taken the step of politics to end the power of the old. And you're the old one, too. You're the lobbyists, you're the ones who gave the bait to the citizenry, you're the privileged minority who continued to rule for a privileged minority. And the common people are what we believe in the redistribution of wealth, in creating horizons of illusion, of hope, of progress. And, unfortunately, this proposal does not go in the line of advancing, neither socially, nor in a better democracy, nor in a better regeneration, nor in the modernization of institutions. But believe that when you have a lot of debate about transparency, about the modernization of institutions, and about some matches to the service of the citizenry, there you will find us. But, meanwhile, a debate in these terms, and, apart from being proposed for a single reading, will have our vote against. I went past, from the entrance, that the thought Ciutadans proposed seemed interesting to us, from the entrance. Anyway, I think it's debatable. We can leave it for more in advance, but while this proposal is being put forward, it will have our vote against it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.76.0	Thank you, Mrs. Alamany. Now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. It's Mr. Vidal Aragonès' turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.77.0	Members, parliamentary workers and parliamentary workers and parliamentary workers, make no reference to Kant alone, the spokesman of Ciutadans, but also make reference to Kelsen, and we want to say it with all due respect, but it may not be the most important date for the position we are defending today in relation to the discussion we have. We remind him that Kelsen was appointed a lifetime member of the Austrian Constitutional Court, a lifetime member of the Austrian Constitutional Court, and that he was terminated by his condition, that he was not a militant, as a Social-Democrat. I'd keep strength in relation to what we're discussing today. But if you like Kelsen, you should remember that pure law theory was written in Geneva, at the University of Geneva, in exile. A very big hug, Anna. [[Greetings.]] Let's go ahead and vote against it. And we will vote against what might be called the Puigdemont label, but we will not look at it as the Puigdemont label in the first part; we will look at it from the general amendment plan. The first group of the People's Party is that the material and personal media, only available to the Catalan territory. We, from the CUP, will not consider that there is an expression – in a future, an expression – that wants to use these media at any other point in the Catalan Countries or at the other end of the world. Let us not consider this to be decisive. What can be done better, with a residence in Catalonia? It's possible. But it can be perfectly done outside the principality of Catalonia, too. According to the question they raise, these incorporations to the regulations. A criminal conviction will immediately revoke rights and prerogatives for the consideration of the President. Of the modification proposed by the PP, we should be answered. We have the answer: any condemnation? A minimum sentence? Is a 30-day fine enough for a condition loss? Criminal conviction; read what you said: criminal conviction. And remember the change in the penal code, which may have been forgotten. Obviously, we have a very clear position on this issue, which is that it cannot be that any type of criminal conviction mechanically presupposes the loss of these rights and conditions, and above all it cannot be because the rules in force already provide for a mechanism, which is that of Article 8, where in a very clear way it is foreseen that, if there is a criminal conviction, we will come, or will come, here to Parliament, and be the representatives of the Parliament, the representatives of the people to Parliament, who will decide whether or not this deserves the withdrawal of this consideration. And second part. If we do an analysis beyond the formal, the real: you plant a thought that is called Puigdemont, but really it has a greater depth, that is of political persecution. They can't bear that there are exiles and exiles that have the reputation of ex-presidents and the treatment of ‘president of the Parliament'; that's why they are planting it. We also told them – and we were pleased that Mr Albiol was here – that with these same logics they would propose a modification of Badalona's ROM because those who do not actually reside in Badalona do not have the treatment of mayors? Will they also plant a modification of the ROM in Badalona because those who do not actually reside in Badalona do not have the same rights? They should be consistent and also make these considerations of these normal changes. And let us hope, now, moreover, that I do not ask the socialists that Badalona is covered so that he is not present in more than 25 per cent of the time of the plenary. And lastly, it's funny, but someone imagines what the Media Brunette has done if we were the independent groups that are introducing a modification of this recognition where it is spoken directly that you have to live in Catalonia, in the morning, late and night? They'd be saying that we're... we know the terms, the ones that repeat by active and passive. Obviously, as the People's Party did, there will be no such consideration. And what is the substance of the assumption: why, too, are we against this change? Because we do not want to leave in the hands of his friends togats and with punyets, that directly for a court judgment is left without recognition a president of the Generality of Catalonia, or, in a future, a president of the Generality of Catalonia. We've seen as your friends, your friends, who say some and some, togats and punches, that from the exercise of phonative rights you turn it into criminal offenses. And, therefore, they will not find us in this reality. For all this, obviously, we will vote against it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.78.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. Now, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mr Ferran Civic's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.79.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Table, flaming president, flaming part of the government that we have here, the first question I think is logical, taking into account the time we are running: the fact that we have this proposal on expressions is because now we have a theme, which is to solve the future of Mariano Rajoy? [[Rialles.]] I say that because, if that's what it is, we need to talk to Congress; I understand that I wouldn't touch here. Or maybe we're talking about this topic because we have an expression in exile now... or is it precisely to talk about cases of corruption? I don't know. Perhaps the company and its opponents – well respected, you know – Alejandro Fernández would have just explained this to us, because he said that to the presentation at the moment, but it seems to me that he has quite a great opportunism. And I also let you start by answering it with the theme of the jifra of ex-presidents. Here we have the one-hundred-and-thirty President of the Generality. Indeed, the Presidency of the Generality of the 14th-century Generality, when it was created in the Corts of Cervera, in 1359, has nothing to do with that of the 21st century, but, indeed, also the monarchy of the 14th-century, which had the right over the life and death of its subjects, nor does it have nothing to do with one which now in the 21st century is simply dedicated to making arms trade with Saudi Arabia. Oh, come on, things are different. [[applause]] But logically the numbers are what they are, and, well, they're accumulated. And, of course, if we're on this subject, it's that we have a theme, basically, that's called the Catalonia-Spain relationship. That's why we're here, because it can't be that we have a whole series of people, as you have commented, what you pose as number 1 of presidents of the French Maci... Francesc Macià spent a lot of his time in exile, in the last few years, before being, in fact, president of the Generality. Lluís Companies, murdered by the Francos, and, logically, the Spanish State is still at the time of tomorrow's forgiveness. Josep Irla, dead in exile. Josep Tarradellas, who now everyone claims, casually; everybody, huh? Everyone, even all the descendants of Francos claim it, so he spent 90 percent of his time as President of the Generality in exile, in Saint-Martin-le-Beau. And, of course, when we're talking about this... it's that if we have an expression that's in exile, it's because it's quiet and it's nice to put him in prison, not for anything else. The same way Mr. Tarradellas had to leave, but Mr. Tarradellas' difference is that maybe he's gone as far as Mr. Companies is concerned. Why the prison or the exile, you got it clear, huh? This isn't an option, it's a conviction. In their proposal they also speak of honorability, and it is a concept I would share. And I also take this opportunity to say to Mr. Martin Blanco, that we don't know each other, that I liked the whole of his intervention very much. Surely, if they were some other contexts, we could fully share much of what he had, and above all the background. But, of course, when we talk about the concept of honorability... of course, if making a reference is to lose honorability, so, listen, your honor for me may already stay, I don't care about that. When they speak of honorability, if it is honorable to strike civilians who only want to vote, then for me this honor can be stayed. If when they talk about honorability, if they charge over black money from entrepreneurs to change hidden interests, that's honor, then that honor can be stayed. They're also talking about a criminal conviction that's closed in a democratic state and right is an objective fact, which is the motive, in a way, that brings us here. But, of course, in other countries it may be, but if we have a person from Alsaua who yesterday himself went to arrest to record - to record - an assault, who casually disassembled the prosecution's and prosecution's theses, and will have to be detained for thirty years to record this, then, if that is an objective fact... ; that a group sexual violation is only a bust, if that is an objective fact... ; that Iñaki Urdangarin has not entered into prison - and I have no idea what he wants to say to me - it is an objective fact; that the courts, on the outside of the universe, therefore, have not clarified the origin of the universe, but we have not made clear what I do not want to enter - it is an objective fact; that the courts, on the outside of the universe, therefore, have not clarified the origin of the universe, but we have not made clear what I want to say to me, Rajo and I have taken an object... And, of course, you have now cited the right's classics; I, as I am not a lawyer – I have studied other things, unfortunately – so, of course, I'll quote an 'ex', not an 'ex', but an 'ex' – not yours, eh? Mr. Fernández, who disconnects your sentimental story – [[relays]] , but a former minister named María Dolores de Cospedal, who said..., said: "There is no box B of the PP, even if a judge says so. So, of course, "even if a judge says so, there is no rebellion, no rape, no misappropriation of the former government. "Even if a judge says so, there is no objective fact in many of the things you believe, and much less in a country without separation of powers, for a band, effective, because it is not there; without a justice purged of the franchise, and, logically, with a justice fully politicized, "even if a judge says so. The president of my party, who should be here, like, logically, all the other members of the former government; like, logically, starting with the motion of this proposal, President Puigdemont; but also the rest of the advisors and advisors – who, of course, take advantage to congratulate our advisors and advisors with an aggressive feeling, I suppose they must understand why, not because we don't want them, but because we all share all that there are other people to see – always says that we think we are hugging each other. So, if I may, I'll talk to them about love. The president knows very well a town that is said to be the Scruggle of Francolí, for obvious reasons, and, of course, now, when..., I hope soon, after he may have done all the work, he will have the situation of the president. Now let's imagine that the president goes to the Espluga, he goes to the Espluga de Francolí – that it is certainly not a people of Lleida, it is to the Conca de Barberà –, and there he knows..., I bring my friends from Esplús, which is an Aragonese people, and one of these friends of mine, therefore, has a friend. And, incidentally, Mr. Torra falls in love – I don't want this, because I met her yesterday, and it's a pleasure and I'm sure it'll last a long time. [[Rialles.]] But, of course, when you know this person you decide to live together and go live in Esplús, which is just a hundred kilometers from the Esplús de Francolí. Does Mr. Torra cease to be an expression of the Government of Catalonia with all the prerogatives that he has? I don't think so. But, of course, since it's up to us here to make a little bit of a match, I'll take advantage of the fact that now it's not to make her serve, the Agricultural Councillor, Teresa Jordan..., how we keep talking about love, and to make her a little match, and how, after 131 presidents – or god –..., therefore, 131 presidents, we finally have a president of the Generality. Clearly, there will be a time that will legitimately cease to be president and will be ex. So, she, who is Ripoll's natural, in a trip she knows a person and, look, this person is from Jerez de la Frontera and they decide to live there and they stay there, because love can do everything, you know. So, of course, the fact that Jerez de la Frontera, Aldeanueva del Camino, or any other place, is a reason to lose the condition of ex-advisor? And, this, passes the same..., of ex-adviser-forgive- or of ex-president, because, clearly..., "nationalism is cured traveling and all of us citizens of the world. So, here's the thing. And the presidents of Catalonia must continue to roam the world, but the expressionists too, without any problems. Because at this point basically what we're talking about is that they want to set borders because the Spanish expressors can run up and down, logically with all the structure and also the Spanish diplomat's service, but, of course, our expressors..., or even the current president can't go to the airport's reserved services. Of course, that's from these things that are very curious. And, of course, at the present time, we are not only politically, judicially, mediatingly pursuing it, but also putting in a follow-up device for the car. This is the offer, I suppose, that they want to make these proposals to us. Clearly, the other objective is to detail Parliament's sovereignty with the subject of revocation. Here is the legislature and, logically, the citizenry previously, who decides who is the executive, therefore, who is the president, so who are the expressionists or presidents. Because, of course, it's the legislature, isn't it? The people of Catalonia? And not a court, that yesterday a statue fell, and today universal access to salvation fell to all the citizens come from where they came. So, I think the situation here is what it is. Why Maragall, Montilla, but are they not expressions beyond the Trees or the Seine? If I wanted to see other people who had been your homologs, I don't know, if I wanted to go to Picassen to see an expressor of the Valencian Generality to greet him, couldn't they go there as expressors? If you want to go and say hello to other homolegs, such as the expressientes González, Francisco Granados or Ignacio González, you are already in prison or at home, could you not go and greet them as expressientes? I believe that courtesy must be maintained and we must be able to go and greet with all the conditions of the presidents. There's a classic of the 78th Regime, which allows me to quote... the 78th Regime and the IBEX 35, which said that the expressionists are like Chinese porcelain jars: they're very nice and nobody knows what to do with it. I don't have the solution either, which I honestly say, I have no idea what to do with it. Now, if the Spanish expressors can do politics, the Catalan expressors too, and with all the law. Because the dignity of the institution doesn't just look at what we're talking about today, nor about detailing the resources and prerogatives that I have, but above all about what is worthy of the political task. And to dignify the political pocket means worthy attitudes; it means to serve the entire citizenry and not the IBEX 35, and logically without corruption. Because that's to dignify the institution. And if I may, companion, adversaries and highly respected Alejandro Fernández, I make you a proposal. I put forward a proposal to Congress because all the representatives of the Government of the Spanish State who have taken over companies cannot afford to be as public as an expression. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.80.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Civit. It is now the return of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the return of Mr. Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.81.0	Good afternoon. Very honorable President of Parliament, very honorable President of the Generality, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... Let's start by talking – a very quick element – why we voted yes to the one-reading procedure. Let us remember that the single reading..., the reform of the Rules of this chamber that allowed the single reading was endorsed by the Constitutional Court and, therefore, is not a reform and a specific procedure of the independenceists, but of the totality of the groups of this chamber. On the other hand, we will vote that not so much to the law as also to the papers presented for the Ciutadans Group. This, obviously, today went from the Law of the State of Speakers and, therefore, we will start by making precise reference to the expressions of the Generality. We already have a president at these times, a great president – President Torra – but we have not been able to invest, because of the interference of the State, the president who was illegally dismissed, the president who took office, on 21st December, the parliamentary majority. We don't have the president that Catalonia's citizenry voted, we don't have President Puigdemont. Therefore, we must begin that he is the legitimate president of Catalonia. And even for what you consider to be the expression, I remind you that the treatment that has always been given to the expression was that of the president and, therefore, it is the one that corresponds to him. We already know that they are harassing the deep links, that they are annoyed by the blindness of these deep links, but what really annoys them is that they constantly remember that we are not yet in a normal situation, that we continue, with the undertakings and exile, the institutional state that assumed 155, that suspended democracy and the separation of powers and that led to the illegal destruction of the government of this country. A 155 which has been removed from parliamentary control and which, therefore, has not been held accountable before the citizenry. The deep ties remind them of the dignity of those who want to make them see that they do not exist and that they occupy these same escons, prisoners and political exiles. Yes, prisoners and exiles for their political ideas. The president, Carles Puigdemont; the vice-president, Oriol Junqueras; the advisors Lluís Puig, Clara Ponsatí, Meritxell Serret, Antoni Comín, Dolors Bassa, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull, Raül Romeva, Quim Forn ; the deputies Anna Gabriel and Marta Rovira ; the president of our parliamentary group, Jordi Sánchez ; the president of Ómnium Cultural, Jordi Cuixart ; the president of this Parliament, Carme Forcadell, and the singer Valtònyc. I am aware that some of you are tired of feeling your names, but we will never tire of repeating them until this ignominy of justice is over and is over again. [[Greetings.]] I looked with interest, as it could not otherwise be, at the proposed law submitted for the Parliamentary Group of the PP and also at the papers submitted for the Ciutadans Group. But if we wanted to sum up quickly, we could say that the authors of ''we're now proposing this ad personam law, which has already been given ''to him, to President Puigdemont. Gentlemen of the PP and Ciutadans, is that really all they have to offer to the citizens of Catalonia? Since the legislature began, in the case of the PP they have only made two proposals for law: one on multilingual education and this one that two of us today. Summary: attack on school, attack on language and, now, political revenge. You spend the day talking about what people are interested in, do you really think this bill they've perpetrated is what the people of this country are interested in? Continue repression? I don't think so. Last week, you, the PP's lords, could seem to be 155 here, but now you have been reduced to what you really represent: there are four, four Members here. Welcome to his reality. They want to modify the law in two respects: the first, to limit the use of means made available to expressors only to make them serve in the territories of Catalonia; therefore, obviously, they want to exclude that it is made to serve in the territory where currently President Puigdemont to Europe is. In fact, this demonstrates, from the outset, a recognition that legality has not been fulfilled; you, who are always talking about completing the law, have been infringing him, under the mandate of his 155, President Puigdemont of the media that legally correspond to him. So much so that the Catalan Republic would remain outside Europe and now it turns out that it is the Spanish State that is outside Europe. It is outside Europe from the state of law, it is outside Europe from the separation of powers and it is outside Europe from justice. Neither in Belgium, nor in Scotland, nor in Switzerland, nor in Germany, do they understand the crimes invented, do they not understand the non-existent violence, and do not understand the fictional misappropriation. In short, they do not understand the instrumentalization of the courts to suppress political ideologies. Finally, and in the language of European diplomacy, which we all know is very measured, the European Commission has asked Spain to serve Euroorders in an appropriate, legal and transparent manner. The Euro-Commission of Justice has stated that the Community executive wants the Member States of the European Commission to have judicial independence free of political interference. Is that clear? Judicial independence free of political interference. The franchise that remains in the State has returned Spain to the French autorquia; in this case, to the legal autorquia. The second aspect they want to change from the law is that these rights and prerogatives of the expression in the event of a criminal conviction can be automatically withdrawn without the consent of the Ple of Parliament, as is currently established. The anti-democratic vein is coming out again: circumventing parliamentary control. If in his day the President is invested by Parliament, obviously the withdrawal of any of the prerogatives that correspond to him must always pass through the control of the legislative power, through the control of the will of the citizenry manifested and represented in this chamber. But this debate is not what the citizens of this country are waiting for right now from this Parliament. As representatives of the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, we have the responsibility to search and find a way out of the current conflict between Catalonia and Spain. Some groups of this chamber are right, when they say that there is a social fracture, that there is a division between citizens in this country. But this division isn't between those who want independence and those who don't legitimately want it. The division is between a citizen who sees his political project as a whole by the State and a citizen who sees his rights as a total violation by the State and, even so, he sees his ideology criminalized, perverting the courts of justice, which should be used precisely to preserve those rights. This, and not another, is the authentic division and fracture that exists in this country. Therefore, it is high time we talked, talked, negotiated and agreed on a political and democratic outcome. But, in politics, the limit of the dialog and the limit of the pact is not the law. We are in a parliament, ladies and gentlemen; this is where we make the law. This is where the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia lies. Because democracy is not, that too, to complete the law, but, above all, that the law fulfilled the will of the citizenry. Catalonia's Statute of Autonomy establishes that Catalonia's self-government is based on the historical rights of the Catalan people, represented by this Parliament, its secular institutions and the Catalan legal tradition. The Parliament of Catalonia has continuously expressed Catalonia's imprescriptible and inalienable right to self-determination. And the Spanish constitutional order, through the incorporation of the internal right of international treaties, recognizes this right to self-determination of peoples. Perhaps they will be surprised, but the Spanish Constitution, apart from Articles 2 and 155, contains more. I recommend that you, for example, look at the 10th and the 96th. The foundation of the right state is not the unit of the Spanish nation. The foundation of the right state is democracy and the separation of powers. The territorial organization of the State and the configuration of the Spanish nation, as defined in the Constitution of 78, are not a superior legal good, but subject to the democratic principle and, therefore, to the free and peaceful will expressed by the people of Catalonia as a political and legal subject. Obviously there is a very important part of the citizenship of this country that wants independence and another that does not, but there is a more important part that it wants us to follow the Catalans, and only the Catalans, who decide our future. The conflict, which is there, stems from preventing a democratic solution. Therefore, we must be able to use the right for which it is intended, which is nothing other than giving out and resolving conflicts and not stopping it. So, let's start with this task, that the hand that President Puigdemont extended to them and they didn't even want to see, that the hand that Jordi Sànchez wanted to extend and they didn't let it come, that the hand that he extended to Jordi Turull and they locked up... so, this very same thing continues here today, extending from President Torra's hand, hoping that the incoming and doing of a time what the citizenry of this country really wants, that is nothing else...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.82.0	Mr. Campdepadrós...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.83.0	...that we start talking between Catalans and, above all, from government to government, with the State. If you deny the right to self-determination of the city council of Catalonia, deprive the Catalan citizens, which you also represent– and which do not legitimately want independence–, deprive them of their right to decide for themselves. All the citizens of this country obviously have to recognize each other as different...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.84.0	Mr. Campdepadrós, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.85.0	... – I ended up, Mr President – we have to recognize ourselves as different in political project, different in ideas; but, above all, we have to recognize ourselves as equal in rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.86.0	Thank you, Mr. Campdepadrós. Now, after the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the papers submitted for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.87.0	Yes, Mr. President. In accordance with Article 90.1 of the Rules of Procedure, in so far as it is the rule that prevails, before popular sovereignty, it would appeal to an observance of the Rules of Procedure, in the sense that, in accordance with Article 85.7 of the Rules of Procedure, when a member of the Bureau participates in a debate he/she has to be a relative in the elections until the finalization of the debate and of the vote of the point he/she has held. Therefore, Mr Campdepadrós could not cast the vote on this point from the Bureau, but he should have done so from the escho. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.88.0	You're right, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.89.0	On the pateixi, down the hall. [[Rialles. Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.90.0	Tell me, Mrs. Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.91.0	It's to ask for separate votes from the papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.92.0	Separated from the exams? [[Pause.]] All right. Therefore, we will vote separately on the two papers presented for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's vote, obviously, first, item number one. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 40 votes to 86, with 7 abstentions. Let's vote now on the number two puzzle. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. And we will now vote on the conjunction of the text of the bill's proposal. The vote begins. This proposal was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a committee of inquiry into the Castor project]] [[252-0004/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a committee of inquiry into the Castor project. This proposal has been submitted for the Parliamentary Groups of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republica and the Catalonia Group in Comú Pueblo, and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Cree. Therefore, in order to present this initiative, we will start the debate with the proposed parliamentary groups, in a single turn of two minutes for each parliamentary group and five minutes for the subgroup. In the first place, has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.93.0	Well, president, deputies and deputies, president of the Generality, councillors and councillors, Catalonia is a plural country, made for various territories that give it a singularity and a special taranna. The south of the country, a south that claims visibility and betters of various kinds, we have the Upper Land, the Ribera d'Ebre, the Lower Ebre and the Montsia, four regions that according to the Lands of the Ebre, vertebrates for a river that we want to live and that we want to like do and nexus of territorial wealth. Often, and sometimes so, the Lands of the Ebre are news to worry about, and very much, the society that we live there. And just worry about the yearning to grow, to prosper and to advance as territories that in a future will soon become the south of our republic and that has always been at the beautiful mig of the Catalan Countries, land of cruelty, land that embraces the Aragó and the Valencia Country, with whom it shares linguistic, cultural, social and also claimed bonds. In early September 2013, the coast of the Lands of the Ebro and the Master began to tremble due to different earthquakes of various magnitudes that shook villages like Vinaròs, already outside the Lands of the Ebro, or the Houses of Alcanar and Ulldecona in Montsia. These earthquakes put Montsia and Baix Maestrat at the top of the media focus, since in some cases where the earthenware exceeded the magnitude 4 of Richter's scale, there were lefts that were damaging, and many, habitations of the populations that arose. Social alarm, panic, fear... the area of the Ebre Delta had not recorded earthquakes higher than 2.9 degrees since 1930, and now movements and tremors were taking place. Why? Maybe why a gas platform had been installed in the beautiful middle of the sea? Five years after those first vibrations of the earth there are still many doubts to answer and many questions to do. And it is for this reason that, from the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia, we give total support to the creation of this commission of inquiry on the Castor, so as to put on the table important questions in relation to this gas platform that benefits an ancient oil field of Amposta closed since 1989 and located at 1,750_metres deep. During the second fortnight of September 2013, days after the first terratremol of considerable magnitude, there was the activity to proceed to request a report from the Spanish National Geografic Institute, to determine the relationship between the terratremols and the gas injections. Why wasn't this report commissioned before the project started? If anyone thought there was no relationship between injections and terratromols, it was wrong, as the report detailed. Between September 24 and October 4, 2013, a total of seven terratremols were added to the area of considerable force, passing to a total of one thousand, fully matching the gas injections to the warehouse. The October 1st Richter scale determined 4.3 earthquakes in the area, with an affect up to 280_kilometres. But, unfortunately, we'll still have to argue that we were lucky, since the students said that for the characteristics of the area it could have reached the 7 points of Richter. How about putting the population in a dangerous situation like this? If a seismic risk study has been carried out associated with the construction of the platform, knowing that there is a failure in the area, we could certainly have avoided risk situations. And why is there earthquakes in September 2013 that affect Montsia and Lower Master? So why the year 2005 is marked a concession that sets aside a gas platform managed for the company Escal UGS, which stores after the name Florentino Pérez and the construction company ACS. That Madrid defend the territory or defend the Bernabéu? And I certainly don't know what they'll be defending right now, from Madrid. There is no time for change, with a minister who knows the subject well and who, among other things, signed the environmental statement favorable to the Beaver, right? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, What I clearly know is that from Catalonia we defend and defend the territory, the fundamental pillar of these republican values that we so much want and long. And that's why we want to get to the end, to clarify all possible doubts around the Castor platform. The month of May 2012 started this concession contract, which coincides with a terratromol at the area of 3.1 at the Richter scale, which at that time was valued as normal. However, this terratremol shows that the area, because of the presence of the fault, there may be earthquakes. And this fact manifests the reticences that some showed to prevent Castor from settling in that location, but no case. The consequences, however, of that first terratremol, have been very damaging to the citizens of the Lands of the Ebro and the Lands of the Senia, and they have a scandalous xifra that is worth putting on the table: 1,350_million euros. A lot of millions of euros, yes. To give us an idea of the magnitude, the one that corresponds to two thirds of Benestar's presupposition or a quarter of the one that corresponds to Teaching. How many things could we do with this money? One thousand and three hundred and fifty million euros that end up being converted into more than 4,700 million euros, if we take into account the financing interests; 4,700 million euros that have to be taken to terms for natural gas consumers during the next thirty years. A lot of money that goes into the invoices of the citizens and the citizens who have to face, for example, the expense that is generated to dismantle the warehouse, an annual xifra that goes up to 15,7_million euros. People first? So no; it seems that, for some, first the concessionary enterprise. Coordinated for the Platform in Defense of the Lands of the Senia, the city of the area was organized in order to deal with this problem arising from the injection of gas. This platform, together with the Observers of the Ebro and the Geological Institute of Catalonia, asked for reports, and they studied seismic risk from the beginnings to avoid what happened and to avoid putting the population at risk. The city movement claims that there are clear responsibilities for the management and economic consequences of Castor and to clarify doubts about the assumptions, the costs of the project, the conditions of the awards, etc. With the support of the various administrations and institutions, the political agents of the territory and outside the territory submitted motions of censure, allegations, complaints and questions and initiatives, such as the same text of the motion for a resolution that we are voting on today. Many municipalities in the Lands of the Jews and Masters have always shown the rebuilding of this project. And, therefore, for all the reasons exposed and above all to put the light on in the dark, we believe it is appropriate to push this commission of inquiry into the Castor project with the aim of making a thorough analysis of it that allows to evaluate the different phases of this project and all the incidences and negligences that can be revealed. Moreover, it will be useful to resume parliamentary activity around this issue – remember that the Parliament as an institution has called for the execution of the Castor Sentence – and to listen to specialists, experts, technicians, political leaders and direct witnesses who can clarify the consequences of the implementation of a 30-kilometre pipeline, a ground operations plant and a marine plant before the coast of Ràpita, Vinaròs and Alcanar. This commission of inquiry will have to encourage a technical audit, as the same syndic of heavyweights, Rafel Ribó, argues in the report Projecte Castor : bases for an audit, in which judgment – and I quote – : "It will be from the conclusions of the technical audit that the actions of Escal UGS, in each of the five phases of the geology of the project Castor, can be qualified as negligence, incompetence or pain. Let us avoid "the day that passes, year after year, let us roam, therefore, and let us set this commission in motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.94.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sales. Then, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word Lord Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.95.0	Too late for everyone. Well, as the company has already commented, during the months of September and October 2013, the gas injection – the Castor project – caused hundreds of terratromols both to the Ebre comarques and to the Master's comarques; terratromols that also, as has been said, reached up to 4.3 degrees at the Richter scale. Only two years had passed since the seismic movements that were produced in Lorca, where they had to mourn until nine mortal victims. Lorca was also terratremols provoked by human action, caused by the massive extraction of water from the basement around the fault of Alhama. And, with Lorca's memory, the inhabitants of the municipalities closest to the Castor – Alcanar, La Ràpita, Vinaròs or Benicarlo – woke up for various nights..., the citizens woke up for various nights with the sack of earthenware; among them, my veins, the veins of my people, my family, my daughters, who were then four and five years old. And, fortunately, we only had to mourn the ensurance, the anguish of the people, many lefts to habitations, to public installations, and, fortunately, we did not have to mourn the death victim. But we know that fate is often not above, and, as has happened in many places, the destabilization of the faults ended up with often absolutely catastrophic causes. Arrest of the world has identified up to 750 terratromols provoked by human action; some of them of terrible consequences and have reached up to 7.8 degrees. Most of them have been caused by mining activity, by the construction of embassements, by water extraction from the basement – as was the case with Lorca –, by fracking or by oil or gas farms, as is the case today. In fact, already in the area of the Ebre, between the year 77 and the year 86, there were recorded up to thirty terratromols provoked by the oil plataforms that were then in operation. Therefore, we were not before an exceptional case, or an unpredictable case, or much less. And so neither the concessionaire nor the State Administration responded to the many warnings that, at the time, they came from the hands of the Ebre Observers, a body linked to the CSIC, which warned of seismic risks already in October 2005, in the process of assessing the environmental impact of the project; or from the same Catalan Generality, which in 2009 sent to the Ministry of Industry a request for a report to the Geological Institute of Catalonia; or in April 2010, when the Platform in Defense of the SÃ©nia issued a seismic report from a raised appeal. And five years have passed since those earthquakes, and respect the consequences of the Beaver have been done many, many studies, and there have been various lawsuits from the table. One of them, the most uplifting, the study of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a report commissioned for the Government of the State and which was presented to the May of the past year, where it was confirmed what was obvious, that is that the hundred earthenware were provoked by the injection of natural gas to the Castor platform. Another report, which has also been referred to, the report of the Syndic de Greuges, endorsed by many Catalan professional colleges, in which this technical audit is claimed and which sets out the important deficiencies of the energy model that at the time supported the project by the concessionary enterprise. Or many judicial judgements, such as that in which, as of 2015, the Jutjat Contenciós Administratiu de Castelló annulled the demand for works of the terrestrial plant because it had been built into rustic character alone. Or also the Supreme Court's judgment of September 2015 that annulled this famous resolution of the Canvi Climàtic State Secretariat, of 2009; a resolution that agreed not to submit to environmental impact assessment the draft connection to the underwater warehouse; a state secretariat that, as you know, will surely be appointed Minister of Environment in a few hours. Or also the ruling of the Constitutional Court of September 2017 that declared unconstitutional the procedure followed for the State to compensate, to pay compensation to the ACS company; an appeal that, as was also mentioned, was prompted, among others, for this Parliament, to institutions of the Parliamentary Group of Republican left. Sentences and reports that highlight the cluster of misproposals that characterized the processing of the Beaver. Now, the synthesis, the global feeling, and the practical effects of all that has passed, is that, at the end of one year of the Earthquakes, the Florentine Perez had already charged its 1,350_million euros with its industrial benefits, that according to a 2012 report of the Secretary of State of Energy came to a 17_per_cent scandal; a payment that was forced, through an emergency transaction, by the government of the People's Party, by means of a royal decree approved by the Congress on October 3, 2014, that... as you know, a compensation that the government of the PSOE had shielded to the May 2008, all and all, even though the enterprise acted with dol or neglect. On November 1st, only twenty-i-seven days later, on November 1st, 2014, twenty-i-seven days after having approved this royal decree, ACS had already charged. On 24 November, EUR 1.440 million had already returned to the EIB. An absolutely unsolved celerity, to the measure of good friends. Castor's project, all this, goes from the moon, goes back to 2002. It was already in its moment incorporated into the strategic planning of gas installations when Rodrigo Rato was minister. Subsequently, in 2005, Ministers José Montilla and Joan Clos defined it as an urgent and strategic project for the security of the gas administration. In that planning there is a cost of 500_million euros for the Castor. The reality has been that of the 500_million euros ended with some 1,461, and, even worse, that the half of the funds that are now operating at the level of the Spanish State are at the mid of its capacity. And one year after the beaver's inn in March 2012, the National Energy Commission warned that the entry into operation of unnecessary installations like the beaver would cause significant increases in gas tariffs. And, as always, after all this, neither political responsibilities between the different governments causing this huge nyap, nor responsibilities between State Administration technicians, nor economic responsibilities over the promoter enterprise have been cleared. We have tried on various occasions to bring this debate and to open a commission of inquiry either to the Senate or to the Congress, which would be a match. Majorities have not been required. And, therefore, we have tried to bring this commission of inquiry here, to our Parliament, to put on light a subject loaded with darkness. A project that surely, like cap, symbolizes very clearly this way of making a government, a state work; this symbiosis of interests between the great political formations of the State and the great business groups. And we don't intend in these positions to straighten out the Spanish State; first of all, because we already know it's impossible, and second of all, because it's not the function of the Catalan republicans. But in any case, we have made this proposal to set up this committee of inquiry for three reasons. In the first place, because the Castor has not finished; even though there is much damage from Castor, there is still his dismantling, and after the experience of everything we have experienced it is essential that this Government, that the Government of Catalonia, and that this Parliament maintain a very proactive attitude before these future phases of the project, assume that any incidence can derive in us earths that impact on the jurisdictional framework of the Catalan Government, which, as you know, is excluded in matters of civil protection and defence of environmental integrity. Secondly, because it is necessary for the democratic salvation of this country that Florentino returns what he has collected; that ACS acted with negligence has remained more than demonstrated, and also because, as many employers have denounced, what he has paid was a state aid to a company that always wins; a compensation that, as has also been mentioned, we would end up paying the consumers of gas and light for the next thirty years, a total of 3,420_million euros. And the function of this chamber is to protect the citizens and businesses of our country. And, in the third place, also by the dignity of a territory, by the dignity of the Lands of the Jews, of some compatriots that are often beyond the reach of any one: nuclear, avocados, wind farms or the same Castor platform. And, what is worse, a territory that has the feeling that if this has happened to Madrid, if these hundreds of earthenware have passed to Madrid, surely there have been resignations. As they passed to the lands of the Jews and to the lands of the Master, there was absolutely no consequence here. And, sadly, it's a feeling that for the people of the Jews it's not new. A few years ago, the cleanness of Flix's embassement, where a company, Ercros, took over 800,000_tones, with the collaboration, surely by passive, of the State Administration, and today the Spanish State has already spent 200_million euros to decontaminate Flix. Neither the company nor the Administration of the State, at that time, nor now, will end up assuming any responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.96.0	Mr. Saved...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.97.0	...and no cost. It's over, President. We simply want here, in this chamber, to do what it touches, to treat the Lands of the Ebre as a worthy territory, to protect our citizens and our businesses from these outbursts, from these costs of this oligarchic State. And we also demand that we be able to demand responsibility from all those who caused these hundreds of earthquakes. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.98.0	Thank you, Mr. Saved. Now, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it's Mr David Cid's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.99.0	Deputies, deputies, councillor, good afternoon, all of you. Obviously, Castor, doubtless, is one of the biggest and most sonic failures of the Spanish State's infrastructure policy. It is, as has already been said, a disastrous and ruinous project. And we are ahead of a project that has a shared responsibility, in this case both the People's Party and the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol. This project, Castor, was planned at the time of Josep Piqué, continued at the time of Montilla and Clos, was awarded to Miguel Sebastián and was Soria who rescued him in one of the most sonal operations that occurred at the state level. Castor, sense dubte, is the symbol of the extractive elites in this country, who have designed the infrastructures, in this case, energetic, transport, mobility..., of many types; AVEs without passengers, motorways without cars, airports without planes, combined cycle centers without producing energy and, finally, gas warehouses without gas. Therefore, we find ourselves in front of a project, which is the Castor project, which has six great errors or six great irregularities. In the first place, an error in planning the energy policy of the Spanish State; a planning based on the unlimited growth of demand, which does not correspond to the real needs. It was the time of ''Spain is fine. And, therefore, a plan was made for the service of big companies, and not of the citizenry. In the second place, a big mistake or, finally, irregularity: the administrative and political process, full of shadows, in which was produced the auction of Castor, in which there was no need for public competition or publicity. Formally, the law is complete, but five projects in the energy sector were asked for experience in Spain, with which all the international companies that did not operate in the Spanish State are exposed, and a volume of annual sales of 4,000_million euros. It's like, white and bottled: ACS. Therefore, the only company to be presented – ACS – was the contracting company. In other words, the contractor and, in this case, the contractor agreed: Florentino contracted Florentino. The third element is the royal decree of the year 2008. This royal decree is what it does: it assigns Castor's project to the company, that is to say, to ACS, but it does so under very advantageous conditions, that even in case of negligence or bad practice the company will recover the realized investment; that is to say, a safe investment, risk zero, temporarily suspending market capitalism. Also in 2008 some curious elements are produced, such as, for example, changing the marine coordinates, in this case where the Castor project is located, which were in only, in this case, Catalan sea and are passed to only Valencia sea, curiously where the People's Party ruled. Fourth irregularity: we are talking now about the environmental impact statement that was finally approved on 23 October 2009. They fragmented the projects, especially it fragmented the project, in this case, of which was the marine and terrestrial connection of the pipeline. Why? To reduce the need for environmental impact statements. These irregularities have been confirmed, for example, by the National Court and the Supreme Court. It is worth saying that in this case, as has already been said, this declaration of environmental impact will, it seems, be the future minister of Medi Ambient, Mrs Teresa Ribera, who is certain that she has a trajectory, said, compromised in the defense of the environment, but surely this is, in a way, as the anglers say, her "fall into the closet". In any case, there has been a constant decrease in the complaints made, among others, by the Observer of the Jew, the Citizen Platform in Defense of the Lands of the Jew or, at last, by the Senia and the same Generalitat, it was claimed that the declaration of environmental impact enclosed the seismic risk, and, unfortunately, did not require, for example, reports to the National Geological Institute to confirm this risk. Five irregularities or errors – I would say directly ‘irregularity' – and this I think is difficult: private debt is converted into public debt; the Royal Decree 13/2014 of the Spanish Government at the time of Minister Soria. There is basically, in our view, an agreement between the business and the government, which basically guarantees the 1,350_million of investment that the business had realized the most investment costs, i.e., 1,649_million euros, i.e., the total net cost of the investment, paid directly for the State. And the payment is at a time remember: thirty-five days, 1,649_million euros paid only thirty-five days. This is to complement suppliers and suppliers. All because the good guys, among them the European Investment Bank, do not have to face any losses. These 1,649_million euros are paid in a context of retailing, poor energy, and were passed on to the gas bill. Therefore, compensation is paid for the net cost of the investment when the facility was not operational and there were obvious elements that made it demonstrable that the company had acted with negligence, and also in bad faith, and therefore could be paid much smaller compensation. And the sixth element, which is related to this, is in this case the procedure that was followed, that the same Constitutional Court declared that it was not the correct, that it was illegal, that it was a royal decree, and that it did not see a draft law, that it was the one that placed the Constitutional Court, that it did recognize and, in this case, it did defend that the draft was not viable and that, therefore, it would have wintered and suspended its functioning. Therefore, it is clear from our understanding that an investigation committee is needed. Also our group, in this case In Comú Podemos, we have registered it to the Congress, and we hope that at some point it is set in march. Tell you in this case, too, that we are aware of the difficulties that will arise. First of all, because many of them appear, in this case, we do not believe that they come here to the Parliament of Catalonia, that is to say, especially with officials and officials of the State, but also with officials, ministers, who should come to compare at the level of the State. And also because there are different elements that are under judicious. In fact, our group has demanded that we transmit what resources the Generality has submitted to the orders of 2016 and 2017, and that they be refused by the same Generality, so as not to interfere in the self-defence and in this case also, after all, of the interests of the same Generality. In any case, for us the committee of inquiry has to set two objectives. First objective: to determine what happened due to the lack of transparency in the award of the Castor project. According to the objective: to determine which were the extra costs in the execution of the project, from 481_million euros to 1,272_million euros. Third element: legislative changes to shield a millionaire investment. Fourth element to investigate: the clauses that violated the principle of free competition and confusion between the contractor and the contractor. Five elements: the supposed concealment of reports that warn of seismic risk and that the company knew. Six element: the technical, political and economic responsibility of both the Administration and the enterprise. Set element: the legality of the administered process. Another element to investigate: irregularities in project funding. New element to investigate: an exhausted energy model, which is at the service of companies and based on fossil fuels. And finally, also work and investigate the hibernation management and dismantling of the Castor project. I'm done. It will now be time for the Committee of Inquiry to go ahead; we are sure that this will be approved in this Parliament today. Therefore, we will have to present the work plans, ask for the appearances and, above all – and we want to be clear on this aspect too – agree the chair of the committee, which we want it to be an idea, agreed by all groups, and also by the deputies and, above all, by the deputies of this chamber. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.100.0	Thank you, Mr. Cid. It's the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, it's the turn of Mrs. Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.101.0	Well, mobsters who pass through the cities and the territories as real authorities to which no one has voted; lies, bribes, scams, corruption, incomplete promises and instrumentalization of foundations with supposed solidary ends; obscurantism; social, psychological and environmental crimes; prevarication; traffic in influence; buying of wills; impunity. In short, the essence of the capitalist and patriarchal system. We socialize the losers and, therefore, the only thing we do is privatize the benefits. The Castor platform has everything. It is the paradigmatic case of the pharaonic infrastructures that do not respond to the general interest, but that they are infrastructures that need systematically, but also systemicly, run from the territory to satisfy the individual interests of corrupt and bankers. A concession without need of competition or public competition, based on the well-known formula « clau en mà, atorada – not by chance – to the company Escal UGS, chaired by De el Potro, an entrepreneur who even managed to share with the Secretary General of Industry Ignasi Nieto and trusted home of the multimillionaire Canadian Ned Goodman, who made himself rich speculating with natural resources, with the resources of all. Escal is a mainly participating company for ACS; it is said, the majority of shares have ACS, the company that appears to the famous papers of the extresorer of the PP Luis Bárcenas as one of the sources of illegal financing of the Popular Party, the company of Florentino Pérez, president of the Royal Madrid. But today there has been much talk of Francoism, and this society is also the company of the Albertos, net of Alberto Alcocer, mayor of Madrid during the dictatorships of Primo de Rivera and Franco. ACS also subcontracted part of the work to the company Obrascón Huarte Lain, presided over by the former French Hispanic minister; a business group that has seen in public services a succulent source of inputs and that does not doubt to feminize the poor. The idea of the company was to pressurize 3,300_millions_of_ cubic meters of natural gas in an ancient oil tank more than 1,700_metres deep under the sea bed. That's right, without the precept of an environmental impact report, and also without a seismic impact report that could cause this gas injection. The opposition and warnings especially of the social movements and of the Platform in Defense of the Lands of the Seine were catalogued by the same president of the enterprise, De el Potro, of falsehoods and catastrophic exaggerations. Finally, a thousand terratremols ransacked the territory and all the villages adjacent to the marine platform. Today, along with the false promises of economic dynamism and the creation of hundreds of jobs realized by the construction company, the Castor project leaves us with a megastructure in hibernation without any public utility and with a great environmental and landscape impact. As the Globalisation Debt Observer reminds us, the platform leaves us drawings of people accused of environmental prevarication and a compensation for the company that is completely deorbited and that is not at all right. The Castor project has been possible with the connivance of the governments of the PP and the PSOE, its ministers of Industry, Energy and Tourism, and all this – which is not overshadowed – with the support of the European Investment Bank. While debugging responsibilities, the PSOE appoints Minister Teresa Ribera, who gave the green light to the Castor project stage, as the new Minister of Climate Change – and, president, I ended up. The Castor platform is not an isolated case, it is not a point error; it is a constant one in a territory full of unnecessary infrastructures, equipped with public inversions that are due to public error, that is, due to all. Megainfrastructures privatized and treated under commercial logic. A model that is not only a thing of the PSOE or the PP, but a model that could also survive with the connivance of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left. There is not enough to respond to the interests of the extractive elites; as we put before the interests of the community the interests of some who become rich at the expense of our misery and our precariousness. Lies, bribes, scams, corruption: the Castor platform. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.102.0	Thank you, sir. Now, to fix its position, it has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the lady Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.103.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor, well, the Members who have preceded me have already sufficiently explained the details of this shameful and demoralizing case, which is that of the failed Castor project. I will not go further into the details, because I believe that we all know them and that enough has already been said about them. I will remember, yes, the social alarm that was provoked in those days, the anguish of the neighbors, the uncertainty, the feeling of insecurity that Mr Salvadó recalled, the lack of information or contradictory information, which in many cases increased that distrust of the project. But to all this, which in itself was already a cluster of misconceptions, was added at the end a lame outcome, and Mr. Cid has explained it very well, and it is that payment, in less than thirty-five days, of a billionaire compensation as soon as it was decided to paralyze the project. It was intended to finish, to folder a project that was very complex in just thirty-five days. And, of course, in charge of all citizens. We have heard here, in this Chamber, many criticisms of this enormous infrastructure, of the decision to build the and how it was carried out, and also of the shortcomings of the Spanish energy model. We have heard that it is impossible to amend the system, the Spanish energy model. And it is true that the criticisms are perfectly understandable, because the Spanish energy model needs a very profound reform. A reform that is not simple at all, because it drags huge strides from the time of PP and PSOE's short-term policies. But do you want me to remind you of a little detail? The Spanish energy model is from a time when PP and PSOE could not pull their policies alone in Congress, they needed support. And do you know who supported them during all those times? Well, of course, the nationalist parties. To support those parties, to take forward the budgets that included the measures that were defining the energy model that we have today, which are so critical, were always the votes of the nationalist parties. You are very responsible for that Spain that you are so critical of. Yes, very responsible. They were there, as we say, helping to form government, approving budgets year after year. But not only by supporting budgets, but also by supporting many laws that have allowed the situations that have now occurred to occur. Not only in the Castor case and the radials, which are the two most scandalous and we have heard recently, but also much closer, such as the rescues of the C-17, here, of the Generalitat, the ATLL clauses and many more. As we say, the nationalist parties have for decades supported the policies they are now critical of. They supported, among other things, the Public Sector Contracts Act, which has been so much criticized here today; they supported it in 2007. It was a law that did not put any stop to the privatization of the benefits of public infrastructure and services without any risk to the companies that carried out those concessions, and that allowed billionaires concessions to be awarded without any control over whether or not they were necessary, or whether or not the associated infrastructure was desirable. And all this with a maximum responsibility of the Administration, that if something failed it had to take care of everything. This is precisely what happened in the Castor project: both Convergence and Republicans passed this recruitment law in 2007. And the Republicans also supported the Zapatero government, which launched this project. As I tell you, they have a lot of responsibility in that Spain that they are now so critical of. What with so much criticism and so much victimism has not just been understood is why, having been decisive as they have become, they have not driven any of those reforms that they now say should have been carried out. Maybe they weren't so clear if they really wanted them. Because the old parties have shown over and over again that, because of their ties, because of the backpacks they have, they really have no interest in carrying out those reforms that we all know would be good for Spain. They have a very large cost for them, for these games, you have to push them. That is why we have had no doubt and have included these reforms in the investment agreements as soon as we have had the opportunity. Of course, the first has to be an in-depth reform of the institutions, including a comprehensive plan to end the abuses that the old parties have made, corruption and the capitalism of friends that privatizes the benefits and socializes the losses, as has happened here, and that breaks the equality of all citizens. We've put ourselves to it. And already in the Public Sector Contracts Act, which has just been published, we have incorporated an amendment. But not just there. Also in the laws that approved the budgets for the last two years we have included measures for them. First, we have included the requirement for the National Evaluation Office to analyse the need for and sustainability of the investments carried out by the Administration. An independent office that avoids, among other things, the construction of expensive infrastructure that is then unnecessary. Or that concessions be made that are inviable and that ultimately have to be taken over by the Administration. Secondly – and in case something fails, as has happened in the radials – we have also included an amendment that does limit the management's patrimonial responsibility. It is as revolutionary as that companies that decide to make a concession assume part of the risks that investment brings to us all the good they want. Of course, these are small brushstrokes to begin with and we need a sensible, but much deeper, transformation of a set of variables that will help us get out of this situation that we have now, which is of a very bad balance and a great mistrust and it is in which we find ourselves. Otherwise, we will not be able to move towards a society in which the friends do not succeed, but rather the merit, which is the only way to ensure that everyone, wherever they come from, can get as far as they intend. A commission of inquiry makes it possible to clear up political responsibilities. That is clear and fundamental to responding to the citizenry. We would have liked these details to have been taken into account when last week they prevented our espionage commission from coming forward. Or, also, when the last legislature disused, in a pathetic way, the commission of inquiry into the Vidal case, blocking the work plan once it had already been created. The Castor case, which concerns us, has to be investigated, no doubt; but let me also suspect that, in the request for the creation of this commission, here in the Parliament of Catalonia, which we already know is not where it touches, there is also much to want to overwhelm and continue in the criticism and in the "worst, better". I also suspect, because we are already accustomed to it, that in the background there is also an interest to occupy space in a certain way so that many other things are not investigated which are the sole responsibility of the Government of the Generalitat. In any case, as we have said, we agree that this case is being investigated and that there are many responsibilities and many uncertainties to be resolved, and since the committee of inquiry is going to be carried out in this Parliament, we are going to make an effort because of the conclusions drawn..., that the conclusions drawn serve not only to turn the "worst, better, but to lead from Catalonia those reforms that the whole of Spain needs and that will also be good for Catalonia. Because the rescues – as I was talking about, the C-17 and there are already two, or the extensions of the toll freeways, or the bankruptcy of Spanair, or the opaque modification of the bus concessions, which we have talked about a lot in the last legislature – are paid out of the pockets of all Catalans, do not differentiate between independence pockets or non-independence pockets, and ending the capitalism of amiguetes can also be a good starting point to work on what could unite us all in a common goal. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.104.0	Thank you, Mrs. Bravo. Now, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it's Mr. Jordi Terrades' turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.105.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, I believe that at the time of this debate we would do well to contextualize why the Castor platform stands, right? Probably today, with the eyes of the year 2018, that the debate is beginning to focus – not even with the intensity that some of us would like – on the mechanisms that must bring us to an energy transition based on more renewable, non-polluting sources, with the aim of reducing the gases of winter effect, projects as this surely would not have been realized. I put him on parole, don't I? , because it will depend on how we do this energy transition, how we approach this debate, whether we move on the right path or stay stagnant. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying, because in Catalonia today the very honorable President of the Generality was announcing to us a national pact for energy transition. There is not enough to announce and present the pacts, but to try to find the consensus on who are the things we need to do. And Spain also has to face this debate. I think we're going in the right direction now, too. The new Minister of Environment, Climate Change and Energy, and the same President of the Government of Spain today, has remedied Brussels which will be the new lines of action, which are precisely on the line of embarking on an energy transition with an economic vision in Spain. He said that all environmental and renewable sector organisations had applauded his name. But let's focus the debate, huh? Let's focus the debate. Approximately, when it began to address the Castor project, which was not the only one... Today, 24_percent of the energy consumed by the country, Spain – and, above all, Catalonia – came from gas. Spain and Catalonia import almost all the necessary consumption. I have analyzed the strategic planning documents of the energy infrastructures at the level of the Spanish joint, which also incorporated Catalonia – I say for some of the interventions that have been made. There was a modification of this planning, exactly on the March of 2006, Council of Ministers, which later led to debate at the Congress of Deputies. I've re-connected everything... and there were all the infrastructure there, huh? – I have relegated all the interventions that were produced in the Congress of Deputies and there was neither a single parliamentary group nor one, which opposed this strategic planning and the infrastructure it incorporated. In fact, the Castor project came from a decree of the year 96, by the Aznar Government, which then continued the government of President Zapatero and which concluded the government of President Rajoy. Were underground gas warehouses rare in Spain? He concluded that he didn't. In Europe they function normally, in Spain too; it is not the only one that has been done, there are not three in operation: one has put in operation the year 1989 in Serrablo, in Osca; another is from the year 94 to the coast of Biscay, it was the project Gaviota, and later, from the year 2012, in Guadalajara, the project Yela. If other rights work without problems, probably the question is why this infrastructure didn't work where it was designed. Go ahead and let us support this committee of inquiry, as we did in the Senate, in Madrid, when a committee of inquiry was asked to investigate these characteristics and which was prevented by the majority of the People's Party's Parliament. What do we have to ask ourselves? Was there a misconception? Was there a mislocation? An error in geological studies? Didn't the processing authorities take into account the impact studies? Was the concession that was held too much in favor of the concessionaris? Once the installation was closed for seismic activity problems, did it favor the concessionaire by transferring all costs to the consumers, as was claimed with the royal decree that allowed in good time compensation to the company Escal? These are the questions we're going to have to address, huh? He told them that at the time that... even at the time of the Catalan government in Catalonia... the Councillor of Industry, who was not exactly my political party, was also in favour of this project. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He was a Republican Esquerra advisor, Mr. Salvadó. Therefore, all these are the questions that we need to talk about. Why, in fact, from the year 1996 until the year 2013, respect this theme, and for the documentation I have consulted – we will also have, in the committee of inquiry, occasion to talk to it – sixty-two geomechanical and seismic studies have taken place, right? , to the band of environmental impact reports that allowed, at the end of the day, the processing of this project. But, well, it produced what it produced, issues of seismicism, and in the end it commissioned a report to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University to see what had happened. It was a back-to-back report to all the incidents that were produced. There are various conclusions, aren't there? That the terratromols that were held in place in 2013 are the end result of the sequence of business and technical decisions adopted by the company; that the failure that was destabilized was not the one that had previously been analysed and that, as a minimum, six Spanish scientific institutes and one foreign university had analysed, that it was the Castor, and that it failed to be another, that it was the Amposta; that the planned studies were executed – say, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology – according to the standards of industry and of the moment, and that all possible studies were required for their proper processing. Well, we have court cases here, it's true, open, which will probably make it difficult, at first, that some of the studies and reports can be plotted, hopefully not, to this committee, but I am afraid that this may be so, we have seen it in other commissions of inquiry that we have opened in this Parliament. The socialists opposed us, in 2014, to the royal decree that recognized this compensation to Escal ACS, because it was left out what for us was a topic that should be analyzed, that were the possible responsibilities of the concessionary company also respect the operation of this plant. If there were any exclusive or partial responsibilities on the part of the dealer. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the Congress of Deputies – the Parliament of Catalonia also did so and the Government of Catalonia also did so – we appealed to the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court has given us the reason. From our point of view it is a matter of fact, this issue, because the same Constitutional Court puts the word to the eye in the procedure that was used, in the sense of the rapidity in which it was handled: thirty-five days, right? We also believe that the Government of Spain has renounced, I say again, to impute to the concessionaire any responsibility that is put in doubt the totality of this compensation, that it has used more financing mechanisms, because it has opted for the markets in place to do it for public debt. Therefore, all these questions are what we believe should be analysed in this investigation committee. And that the Castor project, as some other spokesman has said, did not end only with the analysis of the past, but that we have an infrastructure thirty kilometres from the coast, that the same report from MIT warns that it will depend on how it is closed there may be some type of problems, and in this commission we should also ask some questions: how will it be done from then on, how will this platform be dismantled, and what will be the steps that the Government of the State, in this case no longer of the People's Party, yes of the new president, of Pedro Sánchez, will do to claim the money already subscribed for Enagas to Escal ACS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.106.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Now, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.107.0	Thank you, President. President of the Generality, advisors, deputies, deputies, well, this, that of the Castor project is an assumption of a very important technical complexity. Only two time frames to place this complexity: effectively, it has been said in various interventions, that this is a project that begins in a decree of year 96, certainly; year 96 is given a first authorization, of investigation, in relation to the possible use of this ancient oilfield as a gas warehouse. And this investigation is from the end of the year 96 to the year 2007, for twelve years. I mean, there's-there's-there's-there's-there's-the-tasks that come true. It is the year 2008 – 2008, no 2005 – when the concession is material. To be sure, remember, to say to effects as inventari least that the first research concession was donated to a company in which there was no ACS, in which there was no Florentino Pérez. It's the year 2004 that comes in... by absorbing the original business, ACS comes in, and it's when Escal UGS comes in, that's the concessionary until the end, huh? , from the investigation to the same grant. Also, from the time of the shutdown to September 2013, since the earthquakes were produced and the gas injection shutdown was decreed, until at this time various technical reports have been requested, the latest – and certainly the most significant –, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University, in which they arrive at the conclusion, among other things, that the seismic movements that have been detected in the area have actually been produced by the gas injection, but they are not capable of determining an important and relevant aspect, which is the cause, which has been the cause of these seismic movements. That is to say, whether or not there was negligence on the part of the company. The subject is not closed. If it can be shown that actually there was negligence on the part of the company at the time, it is when it can be demanded the rescue of the 1,350_million euros that it was necessary to pay because the Socialist Party included in the concession decree, precisely, that there was this compensation to the concession company, not because it liked no one. The People's Party Government, so it arrived, in 2011, asked the Supreme Court whether the case was given whether or not to deal with that clause, and the Supreme Court resolved that it was actually to do so. With this I come to say: this is a fairly complex issue, which I do not believe that a committee of inquiry of the Catalan Parliament, with all due respect, can draw up a more complete report than that of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, that of the Harvard University, that of the National Geographic Institute or that of the Institute of Geology and Mining. At the very least, I will be excused: we have four Members in our parliamentary subgroup and we do not have any experts in oil deposits or gas deposits. I suppose you do have them. Not us. Therefore, we warn of a certain difficulty, that this commission in this sense can reach conclusions that are too solvent. A_second element that I think is important that we have present. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, which for something serves and there is, and so on, to complete it and to know exactly what it is that you say, when you speak of commissions of inquiry, you say that these can attend to any assumption that is of public interest the competence of the Generality of Catalonia. The Castor project is not the competence of the Government of Catalonia. And, therefore, we will have limitations – and we will say that we will have to give support to the creation of this commission of inquiry, for a reason that I will now explain. But we will have many limitations at the time of asking for information, at the time of asking for appearances, at the time of asking for so many things. And, therefore, we will have an added problem with the information and the witnesses that we can achieve in relation to this issue. But we will vote there affirmatively, and we will vote there affirmatively above all in respect of all those people who for years and during 2013 suffered, so, all these seismic movements, suffered all that anguish and suffered the uncertainty that was given at that time. So, we understand that it's positive. Now, I don't want to let go of the paradox that represents me – paradox or no, eh? – the fact that the separatist groups of this Parliament are constantly talking about the Castor project, the Castor project and the cost that this represents for the citizens' butt in the waste of gas, and oblivion, for example, of the waste of water: 138_per_cent has pushed the waste of water from 2010 to 2018, with a permig externalization that has ended as the rose of dawn and that will now have to cost us a thousand_million more. On the Castor project, two reports of the syndic of the separatists; he forgave, of the syndic of heaviness. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] About ATLL and water, did you worry about anything, the heavyweight syndic?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.108.0	Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.109.0	Absolutely. He didn't worry about anything at all. Because, of course, this is a competence of the Generality and with the Generality we can't stay badly. In change, as the Beaver is a project of the Government of Spain, whatever it is to attack Spain, it's good for us. And president, that's why they're presenting this initiative. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-06-1101.110.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] We shall proceed to the vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Let us proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. [[Pause. Widow's remorse. Greetings.]] Unfortunately... deputies, deputies, despite the opposition of a deputy, huh? this motion for a resolution was adopted by 131 votes to one, with no abstentions. Thank you very much. The session's up.
