ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.1.0	Good morning, everyone, the session begins. Before starting the order of the day, however, I would like to greet in the name of the chamber the representatives of the Parliament, the President of the Generality, ex- MPs, authorities who are accompanying us today. [[Program debate and investiture vote of Member Quim Torra and Pla, candidate proposed to the Presidency of the Generality]] [[201-00005/12]] [[As you know, the only item on the agenda for this plenary session is the debate on the programme and the investiture vote of the Member of Parliament Quim Torra and Pla, a candidate proposed to the Presidency of the Generality of Catalonia.]] [[In accordance with Rule 149.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, the investment debate begins with the reading of the resolution of the President of the Parliament in which the candidate for the Presidency of the Generality is proposed. I pray in this case to the secretary first that I give reading to this resolution.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.2.0	[[Mr President... "Proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Generality, the Presidency of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 4 of Law 13/2008 of 5 November of the Presidency of the Generality and of the Government. Having consulted again the representatives of the groups and parliamentary subgroups, proposed as the new candidate for the presidency of the Generality the deputy Quim Torra and Pla, and I leave without effect the proposal of candidate of April 9, 2018.]] [[The very Honourable Speaker of the Parliament of Catalonia, Roger Torrent and Ramío, Palau del Parlament, on May 11, 2018.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.72.0	Thank you, first secretaries. Therefore, the proposed candidate, Mr Quim Torra and Pla, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.3.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen deputies, very honorable President Mas, very honorable President Benach, very honorable President De Gispert, excellent lady Conesa, elected representatives to the Congress and to the Senate, councillor Borràs - welcome -, authorities, lords and lords who follow us from the hemisphere and from the rest of the halls of office and those who follow us through the communications media in the country... Also a very affectionate greeting, more affectionate than ever, to the relatives of prisoners and exiles. So much for us following Val d'Aran. I should not be here today, I should not be making this investment speech, nor should I ask them for confidence in a government program; here, now, I should be the legitimate president of Catalonia, the very honorable Mr Carles Puigdemont. And it should be him, addressing himself freely to this chamber, who exposed the government program for our country. And he should be accompanied by all political prisoners and exiles, who can't be here either. They too, free and with us, and with their families, should be able to listen to him. So my first words to send an emotional record to all those who, simply to allow the people of Catalonia to vote, are today deprived of their rights, deprived of freedom without feeling, hosts of a state that has violated the most basic democratic rules. Neither our fellow Members, President Puigdemont, Vice-President Junqueras, Councillors Jordi Turull and Josep Rull, nor the President of our parliamentary group, Jordi Sánchez, can be here either President Carme Forcadell or Councillors Toni Comín, Lluís Puig, Joaquim Forn and Raül Romeva, nor Councillors Clara Ponsatí, Dolors Bassa and Meritxell Serret. And yet, also in prison and exile, Enyorat friend Jordi Cuixart, Esquerra's secretary general, Marta Rovira, and former CUP deputy Anna Gabriel. We'll repeat it all the time, we'll never get tired of remembering them, because we'll never get tired of fighting for their freedom. [[Perlongats applause.]] At the time of starting this investment debate, I want to make it clear that: our president is Carles Puigdemont; be loyal to the mandate of the first October, build an independent state in the form of a republic, and our government program is the social cohesion and economic prosperity of Catalonia. I submit my candidacy to the Presidency of the Generality for the service of these three proposals, with determination, because the best way to refer our country to the 155th attack is to have government, because the best way to protect and defend the interests of political prisoners and exiles is to have government, because the most powerful way because the country, republicanly, on all its fronts is a working government to achieve it. If you want, we can sum it up as Joan Fuster would surely say: "All politics that we do not do will be done against us. So do it for us. Allow me, before entering into the blocks that set up the government program, which introduced the details where we are. So we're at an exceptional stage. Today in Catalonia democracy is being questioned. Innocent people have been detained, honourable politicians have been exiled, teachers and teachers, mayors and officials, CDR social activists and comics or journalists have been investigated. Today, in Catalonia, the universal right of any people to self-determination is criminalized. The civic rights of expression, manifestation and thought are raised and threatened. These facts place Catalonia in an unimaginable political exceptionality in no European country around us. It will not be normal at home until we get our institutions back, it will not be normal at home until we get democracy back, it will not be normal at home until, simply, the people who defended and exercised democracy so that we can vote in the self-determination referendum of October 1 are free. Some people want us to believe that we live in a normal country. So no, quite the contrary: we find ourselves at an exceptionally abnormal political moment, of enormous gravity. And, of course, this exceptionality directly and profoundly affects the legislature and all that can be derived; in the first place, this same investiture. If I'm allowed a personal reference, I want to tell you that I don't think anyone is as hurt as I did that we came to this investiture, I can assure you. And I think it's necessary to hold off for a moment and talk to them about the four investments that have attempted to materialize these last few months. To do so, personally, seems to me to be a right of political justice, but it is also up to the hour to see how much they have violated and overturned the rights of our fellow Members, a violation which, I have no doubt, will end up settling in their favor in international courts. In the first place, that of President Puigdemont, the 30-generation, barroerably impossible for a combined work of the Spanish Government and the Constitutional Court, threatening our institutions. Secondly, that of the company Jordi Sánchez, unviable because a judge prevented him from exercising his rights as a deputy. In third place, the investiture of the councillor Jordi Turull. Can anyone think that in no country of the European Union, in the face of a debate of investiture, the deputy that the defence can get to the prison? Can anyone imagine that this really can happen in a democratic state? Actually, this scene, you think, would it be possible for Norway or the United Kingdom? So it happened here, in Catalonia, where it was probably one of the biggest indecencies that our Parliament has experienced and that I personally can't get out of my head. And, finally, the intention of the new investiture of Jordi Sánchez, based on the precautionary measures approved by the United Nations Human Rights Committee ; as said Professor Neus Torbisco, professor of human rights in Geneva, measures of extraordinary import, until on very few occasions they have been granted. Well, neither did Mr. Llarena seem to have any importance to the United Nations. And when no resolution from the United Nations no longer affects you, then until we can get there, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, uh, uh, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, In whose hands is justice, Spain? Four intents of investidura. Someone has come to claim, frivolously, that it has been a lost time. And I ask myself: Lost? Are you really lost? So, if it were that way, how will we win the battle in international courts, if it's not all-encompassing and each of the lawsuit and judicial barbarities that have been committed? This is why the itinerary followed these months in Catalonia was so important, just as the itinerary followed in extraditions to Germany, Belgium, Scotland and Switzerland was vital. That is how, day by day, we have been able to see in the Spanish State serious attacks on the civil and civil rights of our fellow citizens and political and social representatives. That is how, day by day, we have laid down from exile the foundations that must allow us to win against injustice in the end. I told them, in the beginning, that it was to be President Puigdemont who makes this speech today, and it is to be President Puigdemont who, as soon as possible, does it. Until two occasions, this Parliament has recognized that it is he who counts on the favorable vote of the absolute majority of the chamber; but against this reality the State has mobilized all its temptations of power to avoid it, all the imaginable and the unimaginable. In a frantic race to the abyss of repression, the State has prevented us from choosing the person who legally and legitimately encapsulated an electoral candidacy. Any traces of respect for the citizens of Catalonia and for the willingness expressed by the citizens of Catalonia have been eliminated. But our answer will never move from here; we will persist, insist and invest. This is, if I may, one of the central ideas of the Republican project that I present to you. Moreover, I must confess to you that I have accepted the responsibility to pull this investment forward, first, because I understand that the moment requires all of us to take responsibility and to act as servants to the country, and second, I have accepted the responsibility to pull forward this legislature because of the temporary situation that the country is facing, which can only end with the freedom of prisoners, the return of exiles and the recognition and acceptance of the democratic will of Catalans. Certainly, before the situation created there were other possible outputs. We have studied them in depth and, in our opinion, to make government is the one that best takes advantage of the republican thread that pulls from the referendum of the first of October, passes through the political declaration of independence on the 27th and is revalidated in the elections of the 21st of September. But with this there is not enough; as a government that expresses, in its own configuration, our unaltered will to continue the republican mandate rejected from the citizenry. Let's start, then, yes, a transition phase that allows us to move forward in our project with all the power, all the strength and all the resources, while at the same time assigning a provisional mark, effectively, a mark of compromise and repte for the unborn. Because we will be warmed by a strong government; more than I, above all, will be warmed by a strong and united country, to face together the challenges that arise. In a few days, the application of Article 155 will be formally raised. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I see you're telling me you don't... so the government of the state is obliged to do. There will no longer be a reason why it will continue to apply if you, Members and Members of this House vote in favour of my candidacy. But we won't have any excuse to work without rest for the republic. And when you get to this point, I have to make you this time, not a confession, but a finding. If I get your confidence and, therefore, we start this legislature, as well as the government that has the honour of presiding over us from this very moment on, we assume the responsibility that derives from our actions. Only we, the Government which is the result of this investiture, can be held accountable for what we will do; never and in no way can one of the people who are today imprisoned, exiled, prosecuted or at risk of being imprisoned. The way and how we propose to move forward in the construction of the republic is our exclusive responsibility. Therefore, three important words defining the stage we are starting: exceptionality – prison, exile, lack of rights, lack of democracy – provisionality – this situation cannot continue like this – responsibility – make government. And also allow me to add two more words: dialog and life. To talk about dialing in take the investiture speech of Councillor Turull. At a certain time, he was assigning one of the most important values to us: the pact, the dialog, the storytelling. The counselor said: "We are people of understanding and who want to agree. The pact and the given word are still in this country, which always eagerly seeks the great consensus. We've always done it, and we want to keep doing it, because if we stop doing it, we're not serious. And today, solemnly, after the indisputable victory of the independence forces in the past elections, we once again offer our support to the Spanish Government; we ask for it in the same table in order to solve politically the political problems that we have, from government to government. I fully share the advisor's words. And I would like to recall today the textual words that the present king, Philip VI, then Prince of Girona, pronounced on April 21, 1990 here, in this Parliament of Catalonia. Then the student said: "Catalunya will be what the Catalans want it to be. And the sender, in Girona, went on to say: "The well-structured Constitution with the statutes of autonomy and the democratic character that the society manifests allow the exposition absolutely free of any project; the democracy expresses its projects by means of the ballot box. It turns out, Your Majesty, that there are political prisoners in this country; it turns out that there are exiles in this country; it turns out that there are hundreds of Catalans investigated for having freely exposed their project – a democratic project: independence – ; it turns out that we vote on October 1st and December 21st, but the will expressed in the ballot box is not respected. Majesty, not like this. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] So, are we talking, Mr. Mariano Rajoy? Do we sit together at the same table at the same time as your Government and the Government of Catalonia? We are ready to dialogue tomorrow: without conditions, without vetoing anything, with due institutional respect between governments and the urgent need to bring politics back to politics. It won't be for us. We do not give up anything, not even to agree with the Government of Spain. But if we are talking about dialogue, I should also like to address a few words to the President of the European Commission. I would also like to address a few words to mister Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission. Dear Mister Juncker, we appreciate your words this week, looking at the Catalan crisis. As you probably know, the 25th of April, members of the European Parliament introduced in Barcelona the European Union - Catalonia Dialogue Platform and regretted the « unacceptable silence of the European institutions over the situation in the country, pressing them to be engaged in the Catalan crisis and media te in order to find a political solution. « Democracy is all about understanding each other, speaking to each other, finding the way of compromise, said Ivo Vajgl, on behalf of the platform. The Catalan crisis cannot go on for one more second. Catalan people, as European citizens, serve the support and mediation of the European Community. There are Catalan democratic politicians in prison and exile, as well as the leaders of two of the largest civic organizations in Catalonia. All of them loaded with rebellion, risking from fifth to twenty-five years in prison. This is not acceptable in the Europe we love, the democracy we expect and the land of the human and civil rights we dream. I have asked the Spanish State and the European Union for a dialogue, and they also need a dialogue between us. I don't think I can keep the insult as we're referring to, nor the justification for bringing a link to the pit. [[applause]] , follow the color that follows, signify a provocation. [[The applause continues.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.4.0	One moment; one moment, Mr. Torra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.5.0	That's why, the dial band, I want to talk about life. All these processes that are built in freedom and for the freedom of all will always have the great challenge of getting the right and the right prevail. That is why they themselves carry the result of an inescapable challenge and justified hope. Says the song of the Txarango: "We will have everything and will talk about life. And yes, it's true, we need to talk about life! He also called it that, a book by Anna Gabriel, recently: And we'll talk about life! García Márquez, in a brilliant saseg titled "For a country within the reach of children, speaks that "the immense creative energy that we have wasted for centuries in the depredation and in the violence will at last open us the second chance on the land that did not have the unfortunate strain of Aureliano Buendía, for the prosperous and just country that we dream at the reach of children. Maybe it's true; maybe names are through the eyes of our children, net and clear, that we need to know how to find the way out. What broke down with arrests and exile is the life of many families. And what needs to be repaired is the stolen life of all these Catalans. We must overcome this injustice, and we must overcome it with the country. We must devote all our efforts to the recognition in Catalonia of the free life of men and women in their highest condition. Do you know how many cards have been sent to prisoners and exiles in these last six months? Half a million; half a million cards. I made public a few days ago, Congressman Ferran Civic. The xifra – the xifra – is stratospheric and shows up to what point we find ourselves in front of a repte that has questioned us all. And that's why we won't get out of it if we don't manifest that the Catalan political crisis is also a humane crisis. That's why we have to do everything we can to get from prison and exile to life, to get from repression and authoritarianism, to get all of us back together. We must be able to give a genuine, sincere political response on the part of all the citizens and on the part of all the Members of this House who say that they respect each other and fight for it in one of our citizens. You have security, you and all the citizens, who are willing to do whatever you need because in this country it's about life. We are not so far away – or, better said, we should not be, so far away – from the existential revolution that Václav Havel demanded, which gave rise to hope for the moral reconstruction of society and the rehabilitation of values such as trust, sincerity, responsibility or love. This is the path, the only possible. And yes, it's true, we'll all have to take risks. But, as Professor Joan Vergés said a while ago in an interview, if there's no risk, it's a sign that you're not fighting. In the most difficult moments of these months, I asked myself: "How did we get over all the folds? How could we face such a dramatic situation as we live day by day? And the answer is that if Catalonia wasn't a town anchored in its values, we wouldn't have been able to get out. The values that Councilman Turull has explained to us: of pau, of colliding, of plurality, and of how we will always revolt against injustice, of causing and threatening them. Remembering also some words of the esteemed Patrícia Gabancho, his arrival because he drew forward with any other normal country: talent, project, leadership and unity. I can only add that we ask each other, that we demand ourselves more. We have to go even further, put the focus more intensely where we need to put it, as when I told you about life. Let me give you an example. In the book The Meridian of Paris, Lluís Calvo, his author– an excellent book, a European book– draws a cartography of the ancient meridian that has just fixed Francesc Aragó, a Catalan scientist from Stagell, to Rossello, and that goes from Dunkirk to Ocata, all passing through Paris, Occitania, Prats de Molló or Sant Joan de les Abadesses. In an interview that they published, he states: "The book ends with his Dragonera, to which passes the meridian. It is a light that can still guide us, the light of the right collectivities and dignity, the light of hope, culture and freedom. We need to return urgently to humanism. Montserrat Roig had already warned: "Culture is the most revolutionary political option in the long run. I am not completely convinced: the Catalan Republic can only pull forward if it turns around, as in its centre, people. And that we must base the legitimate political struggle on integrity and respect for all of them more deeply. Freedom and culture. Right here, right here, that's where we're going. [[Greetings.]] Then I enter the speech block to explain what we will do from now on. And the answer, coming from the independence majority, is that we will make republic based on the republican values and the great debates of the constituent country; republicanism as a society of citizens free and equal, not subordinate, not dominated, empowered, participatory. It is in them, in the citizens, where the raison d'être of the republic is wrong; without citizens there is no republic. And because we can do this, we must have free institutions of corruption, maximizing transparency in management and contracting, and encouraging citizen participation and collaboration to be truly in the service of citizens; citizens, obviously, as political actors and not as subjects. The construction of the republic of all has to become a real opportunity for change so that it produces better in all areas of our life: guarantee of political, personal, social, economic and sustainability rights. Equality as central to public policies, introducing the perspective of gender and protocols against male violence and sexual discrimination in all spheres, and a model of reference in respect of cultural, ethnic and linguistic plurality. In short, an irrevocably inclusive society where no one results in exclusion from its characteristics in the spheres of life. Equality that goes from the hand of fraternity, understanding how to respect scrupulously human rights and human dignity. It is thus, republicanly, that the nation becomes more than ever a plebiscite every day, a voluntary union of every day. And, in parallel with this attitude that must be framed every step we take in this legislature, we will push forward a process that constitutes, participated for the citizenry. We hope that a great Catalan national debate will emerge on the future of our country, that it will outline the social, economic and institutional model that we imagine for it; a debate that will involve all citizens in a real way and that will be able to form great national pacts and consensus. We have a unique opportunity that few countries have in their history. Enjoy it. We designed from scratch, among all, without hardship, the country where we want to live and how we want to live. Radically, let's go to the scene of problems, with a disruptive view of the autonomous regime, of course, that it drags us into residualization and that it has proved unviable for the ambitions of a country that aspires to more, to more, to much more. He aspires as long as he wants it all. A process that, I insist, we must do among all. This is a process from low to high, and that after the civic discussion, which we want massive, has to end by becoming a proposal for the constitution of the Republic of Catalonia. As Professor Jaume López says, a process is an opportunity to put into practice the fundamental principles of a democratic regime: the power of the people, the power of the citizenry in its maximum expression. And I ask myself: who can I do it because our country is built on as much radicality as possible? In short, ladies and gentlemen, in this legislature we want to go from the restitution of our institutions to the recovery of democracy in its maximum expression, the elaboration of a draft constitution. This is the Republican way to build a new country. But this parliamentary visit is subject to, as I said at the beginning, the temporaryity in which we are moving. Withdrawing the legislature, and hence the import, gives us the strength to put all the republican political life on the march; here and in exile: the assembly of elected bodies, inside, and the council for the republic, to the free space of Europe. But no one can escape - as we have a first essential tape in front of us: the celebration of the judgments against the Catalan democratic politicians. The country will be put to the test, and all – government, institutions and citizens – will know how to be at the height of the moment. Let us know that the sacrifice of so many friends and companies deprived of freedom and exile is not going on. And we still take into account a great moment, which will be the municipal elections, which we must see as a new and magnificent opportunity to strengthen sovereignty and to count on the municipalities to make republic, the republic of the municipalities. Now I would like to talk about what will be the inspiring principles of this legislature, and therefore the axes that will structure the governance plan. First: the democratic restoration of Catalan institutions, accompanied by a common front against repression. Second: policies of progress for a better country, which allow us to counter the attempt to break society, with the will to move towards a republic for everyone. Third: economic prosperity policies, which allow us to create wealth, the progress of the country and be able to make a good redistributive policy. I quartet: Catalonia in the world and the internationalization of the Catalan case. In the first place, then, we will tend as inspiring principles, cannot be otherwise, democracy; the maximum value that the country and the institutions must govern from any other. It is the citizens who have the ability to decide the future and guide the decision making process. And those who are in front of the institutions, those who represent the people's sovereignty, we have to listen, we have to obey and we have to compliment the mandate that is being held up. In this sense, I have the confidence that this chamber ceased to be a muddy land and subscribed to the judicial sphere and regained the possibility of doing politics, with capitals, understood as the art of discussing, comparing ideas and projects and making things possible. We'll all win it. And the first priority of the Government, in this area, will be, in a sense of doubt, to restore democratic Catalan institutions. It is urgent, it is legally necessary for the State to accept the mandate of 21 December; it is to say, correct, repair and restore everything that they have removed, without the permission of Catalans, after a few months where we have witnessed stupefactions, such as European citizens who are, to the repression and retaliation of phonental rights in a general way against all sorts of people and collectivities. And we can also remember that September and October of the past year – we are well present – and the violence and repression directed and authorized by the highest officials of the Spanish Government, promote the displacement and installation in Catalonia of thousands of police forces. The same Minister Zoido was quantifying in almost 100_million euros the cost of this deployment. It's unacceptable, it's intolerable. How can a European democracy be justified, not just repression, but the misappropriation of public funds, simply, to ban and suppress an idea? And all this bitter reality has come accompanied by a recent trend of the Spanish State towards our competitions. From the intervention of the finances of the Generality and the municipalities and from an indisguised will of the Catalan economy, that goes from an unbearable fiscal drain to an inefficient management of the infrastructures, an energy system harmful to the competitiveness and the irrational rigidity of a judicial and bureaucratic system against the peppers. But, ultimately, they fulfill the will of the people of Catalonia, we will recover the law and repair the damage caused to the citizenry. In this sense, the announcement that the Government will appoint a commission, attached to the Department of Presidency, that will be responsible for developing a plan of work to assess and repair the effects of the application of Article 155 not only to the Administration, but also to the country's joint venture. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's hard to keep up. May I? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, now, change the thing. And also the progress a concrete measure that the Government will take immediately: we will withdraw the ignominious lawsuit against the 9-N drivers, which was presented a few weeks ago by the Generalitat, obliged for 155, and against the criteria of the Judicial Cabinet of the same Generalitat, before the Court of Auditors, in which the payment of more than 5_million euros is called for. And I take advantage of the occasion: I want to bring my deep gratitude and recognition to Arthur Mas, Joana Ortega, Irene Rigau and Francesc Homs for having made the 9-N consultation possible, one of the decisive moments of the process that Catalonia has experienced in these years. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] For another band, for us, democracy is also to bet on a digital Catalonia, which places us, in the 21st century, to bet on the analogue, anachronistic and bureaucratic state of the past century. We need to boost a Catalan digital citizenry, which connects government and people to get the concept of "the Soc State game back together, to move on to "the State we are ourselves. The second principle that inspires the plan of government that I submit to the chamber is social cohesion; that is, the combination of public policies of progress for a better country, which gives answer to the main demands made by society. It cannot be otherwise, for all those who want a republic for everyone; precisely because we understand the republic as an instrument for the welfare of people and as an attitude of permanent improvement. I could do something and do it right. We are aware that there are many people in our country who are experiencing difficulties. We are aware that there is poverty in our house, and that is why we want to have the capacity to do it, to have instruments to fight it. You know, if we keep it up right now, we can't afford it. Let's play with arms and legs tied and eyes soaked. And then we won't get out of it. We want a country where no one is left behind, a country that placed the person at the centre of the decision, which prioritizes prosperity and cohesion. And the Spanish State condemns us to waste, to be a country of second, to lose opportunities, to leave citizens back. During the last parliamentary term, the systematic appeal and suspension by the Constitutional Court of the majority of the laws approved by Parliament have put an end to the social and material progress of the people of Catalonia. It has not been a burden to some or some other citizens, it has been a burden to the prosperity of the country, of all the citizens. The laws of the climatic, economic, social progress, the habitation, among others, the recurrences and delays of the Spanish state apparatus have brought the state of well-being to the limit. That's why we stand up and do it from the base, guaranteeing public policies that reach everyone and recovering everything from that established and approved for this Parliament in suspicious laws. The first of October we bet to be free and we made it think that it involves us to the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans. We want to build a better country, we want to build the republic of the rights of everyone and all rights. One of the priorities in social matters will be the guaranteed income of citizens, one of the main social strands of the later legislature, and which presupposes a hope to give opportunities for social and employment inclusion to those people and families who have remained behind. We commit ourselves to resolving the difficulties that 155 has caused, improving the system and service channels, deploying the rules and defining a portfolio of services in integration and inclusive policies. Even if I can't get into every area, I do want to make an element of policies of gender and diversity of sexual orientation and gender identity, as well as the struggle against male violence, since they are the foundations of the construction of the just, equal and feminist republic that we want. We cannot afford, for example, any more shameful feeling, like what we lived a few weeks ago, and which denigrates the role of the woman in its full size, intolerable to any person. Thus, we must conjure ourselves to achieve equality between men and women in the world of work, and to end wage differences, opportunities and promotions that do not have any justification. We will be especially loving and caring for the area of Catalan public health, school and housing, pillars that underpin social cohesion, because all citizens have the right to the best possible health system and the best possible school, and to a decent housing. And I think the government of Catalonia is old enough for the model of health and the model of the Catalan school, two models of success, to be the same for everyone and to become the right to housing. Naturally, school protection must be linked to language protection, in order to ensure that the Catalan is still a social inclusion tool, perfectly compatible with a country that aspires to the fluid use of multilingualism. Finally, we will give all support to public communication and information media and public management, as it is necessary to guarantee the right to independent information and to political and social pluralism. The third principle is economic prosperity. We want to have a country that is prepared to attract internationally, that grows and is rich, so that we can then redistribute it. Because we want and need a country with a dynamic and forward-looking economy. We want a productive economy, from starters who strive to innovate, to adapt to the new needs, to grow, to achieve talent and to internationalize. Ours is not an economy of balls nor enriched thanks to the influences that binds it to the State. It will be our highest priorities, the following: the deployment of the National Pact for Industry, which will enable us to boost the industrial fabric of Catalonia and bring the pes of our industry to 25_percent of GDP in its own five years; the transformation of the business and industrial model of Catalonia, so that it can lead, from the south of Europe, the fourth industrial revolution – i.e. industry 4.0–, and the stake for the circular economy, which seeks maximum material efficiency and has no residue, because it does not recognize them as such, because the veils and treats them as profitable resources. I also want to make a point, in terms of energy, that we must bet on a transition to renewable energy, with the intention that the year 2050 will bring all the energy generated in Catalonia from renewable sources. This is a phone book in the fight against climate change. In terms of financing, it is an obligation to remember and denounce with all our strength the fiscal deficit of Catalonia, 16,000_million euros per year, which offers us and prevents us from providing the public services that we would deserve or build the infrastructures that our economy requires to be competitive and to be on the rise of the rest of the European countries. Without resolving this fiscal deficit any demand for better policies or investments is a real toast to the sun. And the fourth and second guiding principles of the measures we propose for this legislature is based on continuing to situate Catalonia in the world and the internationalization of the Catalan case. We believe – and it has become clear to us at the length of last parliamentary term – in the need for an active foreign policy, that you see Catalonia as your own and that you promote international cooperation and the values of progress. To achieve this, we propose to launch and maintain a permanent dialogue with the sectors, institutions and international bodies, since we believe that the Catalan people have issued a clear and democratic message to be listened to and respected. In this line, the announcements that we will proceed to restore, consolidate and expand the network of government delegations abroad, so as to promote Catalonia's interests to the world, which strengthen its role as an economic, political, knowledge-based, social and environmental engine and cultural creation. We will continue to work to help our businesses internationalize and to achieve new investment opportunities for our country. And, at the cultural level, we will consolidate the Ramon Llull Institute as the foundational instrument for the external projection of Catalan language and culture, starting with the Palma Declaration of 2017. On the other hand, we would also appeal to the international community, every time it comes, to denounce the violation of rights that the citizens of Catalonia suffer from illegal actions by the Spanish State. In the same way that we will age so that the Catalans residing abroad can enjoy the fullness of democratic rights and be perceptors of services that the Government of the Generality can offer them. As Parliament approved last week, I want to express adherence to European principles and values, without which we cannot hear what Catalonia is. Europe is an idea, it represents values of freedom, democracy, justice and respect, inspired by a long humanistic tradition. The national fullness of our country is linked to European values. There is no European project without Catalonia, or Catalonia without Europe. But we need institutions that represent and listen to people, that don't hide their eyes in front of human dramas, injustices, or violations of human rights. They must have seen that I haven't gone into much detail about what the government program is going to be. On March 22, Member Jordi Turull very accurately described the main measures that the government he aspired to be captivating wanted to take in the long run; some commitments, in short, a programme which, as is obvious, I also subscribe to and which, therefore, I do not intend to repeat today. To end this aside, I want to make it clear that what is to guide the government's action that I will preside over, if I regain the support of this Parliament, is always to think about any other argument about the needs of the country and of all the citizens who integrate it. This is our obligation, this is our commitment. I would like to address now, in these final words, the people of Catalonia. Welcome and welcome countrymen, the liberty of Catalonia will not be the work of this Parliament or this Government; the freedom of Catalonia will be won by you. Never give up your personal freedom, defend it as you defend it, peacefully, radically. That's how people win the most beautiful victories. And your victory is the falsity of a state that never wanted to negotiate, not even meet to talk, but used violence against the people. But the first of October failed, and they will fail if they ever want to re-enact the violence, because it will always fail any rule of force that seeks to destroy people's ideas and dignity. He'll always fail. [[Greetings.]] This legislature does not have the duty to have frustrated the very serious threats that they have so far posed to us, but also with the temporaryity of an exceptional stage that demands the best of all of us. We face it with firmness, calmness, security. I would like to ask you, on behalf of President Puigdemont and on my own, responsibility and trust. We need you, we need you. We can go on together, work even harder from today. Everyone has a duty to work for the country, to serve it. This is the compromise of the hour that we have reached. They demand that the Complimentary, that you remain aware of the hard time and that you demand from yourselves that only of us complain. You know that everything that we're doing, everything that's going to get us closer, we don't have to wait for it from anyone but us. You are loyal to what Catalonia is asking you, and then you have the certainty that we will overcome all the obstacles. Perhaps of all the people I've known, outside my family, no one has helped me so much to grow up as the person with the Muriel Couples. I was lucky to work there for a few years, rapeseed. Muriel wasn't just the smile of a revolution, she was a revolutionary who was smiling. She flew over a re-founding Catalonia, linking everything that could be connected to, were people, feelings, ideas or time. And, above all, the arrival of Muriel is an incredible arrival, because Muriel gave us hope. In his later book, Fame and Pride, he wrote: "Hope is the virtue that we should stimulate at present times. Our future depends, from one side, on faith in our country, a faith that we have more than proved, and from the other, the future requires that we continue to practice the virtue of charity, which is today's social cohesion. We can be convinced that the future we want and want to share with people from different backgrounds is in our hands. If we have hope, now is the time of the work. And to you, MPs and MPs, I'm telling you, our job is now. Now it's work time. Today we defend ourselves from the past, from Article 155, and we open to ours a new future. Build it together. As much together as the values Catalonia and the republic suppose, two ideals forever inseparable. Today, Eivissa is celebrating, because we are celebrating the seven-year anniversary of the death of Marià Villangómez, one of the great writers and poets of the island. I don't think I could have a better ending like this, this speech, if I were allowed to: « To steal the impossible from us, / and not that I die the wish. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.6.0	Thank you, Mr. Torra. Once the candidate's intervention is over, we suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.7.0	Good afternoon, let's resume the session. In accordance with Rule 149 of the Rules of Procedure, after the candidate's intervention this morning, a representative of each parliamentary group spoke for thirty minutes each of them. The nomination candidate may use the word as many times as he or she asks, without time limitation, and when the candidate responds individually to one of the deputies who has spoken, he or she shall have the right to a reply of a time equal to the time purchased for the candidate. If you have answered the replies, which will also be time-limited, the group may have a counter-replication, in this case of five minutes. Once the debate is over, the vote at the investiture of the President of the Generality will be public by appeal, according to Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. Therefore, now, in the first place, has the word Inés Arrimadas, president of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, for a time of thirty minutes. Madame Arrimadas, when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.8.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, candidate, today we are here in an investiture session to supposedly make Mr Quim Torra president of the Generalitat. Many people will say: "And who is Mr. Torra? Why can we know him? What does Mr. Torra think of everything that's going on in Catalonia? What does Mr. Torra think of Catalan society? Well, I'm going to recover some thoughts, from the ideas, from the ideology of Mr. Torra. Attention, I say in..., I will translate it to the Spanish so that the people to whom these insults are addressed will be heard: « The Spaniards only know how to expoliate, « Shame is a word that the Spaniards have removed from their vocabulary for years, « Above all, what is surprising is the tone, the bad education, the Spanish pijerío, the feeling of uncleanness, horrible, « Out of jokes, gentlemen, if we continue here a few more years, we run the risk of ending up as crazy as the Spaniards themselves, « The Catalans go in private cars and we pay for everything, we do not like the Spaniards, « Frances and Spaniards share the same annihilating conception of the nations that mallive in their states. These are known tweets. The truth is, you may have seen it on social media, in the media. But there are things worse than these tweets, which are going a little unnoticed. Let's see when Mr. Torra has the peace of mind to quietly write in his house an article, those things that are reviewed, that are read three times before sending it to a_medium. Let's see what Mr. Torra thinks. « Spain, essentially, has been an exporting country of misery, materially and spiritually speaking; « No – attention¿ eh? , attention, this is... –, « no, it is not natural to speak in Spanish in Catalonia. Not wanting to speak the language of the country – that is, of Catalonia – « is the uprooting, the persistent will not to want to assume the signs of identity of where one lives; « If we are Catalans it is that we cannot be anything else. If we are some more that we form the Catalan homeland, it is that we cannot be of any other; "What deterioration; you go out on the street and nothing indicates that this is the streets of your parents and grandparents; the Castilian advances, relentless, voracious, very fast. The gentleman who said these things, not in a warm-up at a time..., no, no, who wrote these things in an article that he reread before sending to a media outlet, is the person who is submitted today in the Parliament of Catalonia to an investiture session. Anyone who has said any of these barbarities to another collective, to any other nationality, to any race, could not sit today in this Parliament of Catalonia to be invested president. [[Greetings.]] No country, no country. Not to mention the tributes that he no longer attends, but leads Mr. Torra ; tributes to Stat Català and Mr. Daniel Cardona, as one of the founders of Stat Català. It is a great pity to be here today in front of the debate on the investiture of a gentleman who has been able to say this about the Catalans, too. Because when he refers to the Spaniards who live in Catalonia, he is referring to 75_per_cent of the Catalans that we feel Catalan and Spanish. And when you insult, you insult us all. [[Greetings.]] I would also like to recall another article by former Vice-President Junqueras: "The Catalans have more genetic proximity to the French than to the Spanish; more to the Italians than the Portuguese. We went from Guatemala to Guatepeor, with Mr. Torra. And besides, they are not tweets that are made at a time, no, no; they are repeated considerations, suspended considerations, written, revised. That is what Mr Torra is really thinking, that is what Mr Torra is really thinking, that he is going to submit to an investiture debate in the Parliament of Catalonia. And you, Mr. Torra, referred to Mr. Juncker, and even made him, well, a statement, didn't you? ; addressed him in English. Why? Because you acknowledge that in Europe you do not trust nationalism and are not supporting Catalan nationalism. I will remind you of some of the statements made by Mr Juncker: "Nationalisms are a poison that prevent Europe from working together. The European Union is based on the rule of law, and what my Catalan friends have done is the opposite, shake the law. I am with those who have respected the constitutional framework, I can't support those who viola te it. This is what Mr Juncker thinks. But don't worry, I'm going to translate all your articles and all your tweets and Mr Juncker and Mr Tajani and all the European leaders are going to find out what he thinks he's undergoing an investment session in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] I guarantee it – I guarantee it. I will personally make sure that in Europe you know what you think – we will see, gentlemen of the CUP – the next president of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Do not miss us then that the only ones who receive you in Europe are the extreme right. Of course, but if these tweets... Change you Spanish for another nationality, change you Spanish for some race. You change that word to another and you will realize the barbarity that is what this gentleman thinks. Because the problem is not that I wrote a tweet six years ago; one day, that in an interview you can..., a verb in a press conference, that you can improvise and fuck up... No, no, no: it is that this is repeated, that you are recidivist in this kind of considerations. What you represent is exclusive identity nationalism. And I find it incredible that independence, after six months of blockage in Catalonia, six months, what brings us here to solve the issue is Mr Torra as a candidate. I tell you one thing: if this gentleman had done these tweets of another nationality, this gentleman would not be here. But to humiliate, blaspheme and despise the Catalans we feel Spanish here comes out for free, ladies and gentlemen, comes out for free. And humiliating the rest of the Spaniards here comes out for free. And it's a real shame. And it hurts in my soul – it hurts in my soul – that this gentleman may be here today to be invested president. One thing is clear, however, is that they have definitely dropped the face, nationalism has already fallen the face. We already know what they want, what they are, what they represent and the concept they have of Catalonia, the concept they have of us. In the speech you made today, Mr. Torra – I have listened to you very carefully; as you will see, I do not bring the speech written and read, I adapt to what you have said –, I thought that after saying these things today I would try to modulate a little, I would try to disguise, I would try to reach out for a hand, I would try to compensate. But it's just that you've surprised us worse. You represent more firewood. Zero self-criticism. Has Mr. Puigdemont done anything wrong, Mr. Torra? Have you made a mistake in recent years in Catalonia? Have you made any mistakes since the Government of the Generalitat? One? Some sort of self - criticism, can we hear you? Can we expect self - criticism from you? Can we expect something different from you, for the sake of Mr Puigdemont? I don't think so. You have reaffirmed yourself here in everything you have said. And, in fact, I say to him: in his speech he assumes again the nationalist mantra that this is Spain against Catalonia, that what the Government of Spain does is against the people of Catalonia. You have not yet learned that Catalonia is divided by half, and that one half is as Catalan as the other and vice versa. You still haven't heard from this. I expected from you some direct appeal to that social majority that has not voted separatist forces. I assure you that I expected this, because I say: "Man, some disguise will have to have this lord. No, no, it's not one – not one. They're still with the mantra. Objective: to build the republic. Yesterday: "I will only obey the Parliament of Catalonia. I mean, you're not gonna obey, like the rest of the mortals, are you? , like the rest of the people who pay taxes, to the courts. No, no, he's going to be above, just what you say here with this fictitious majority, because she's a parliamentarian, but she's not a social majority. Processes constitute. It says here today: "No, one of our priorities will be to recover the suspended laws. I mean, the law of transitoryity, that law that said Puigdemont is going to name the judges, that's the one you want to get back. All right, let's go. He says: "No, we are going to form the council of the republic. That is to say, to this Parliament, which represents the plurality of Catalonia – which I already know you do not like, because for you Catalonia is just this from there; but Catalonia fortunately it is everything, you too, obviously – to this Parliament you do not want to give legitimacy and you want to make another parallel, the council of the Republic, where you will have one hundred_per_cent of the votes; it will be fantastic to go there, won't it? Mr. Torra, how easy! No absolute majority, no: it is « absolute, the hundred_per_per_cent! It's just you. They want to eliminate us from the debate, from the dialectics, they want to eliminate us from Catalonia, from their debate, from the political debate. How will they eliminate us, whom we also represent millions of Catalans? No, man, no! , does not expel us from the parliamentary and dialectical debate. No, he also says: "Priorities – another new chiringuito, attention, eh? ; Generalitat's arks, to be prepared – "a commissioner to investigate 155. To investigate the 3-per-cent, no, huh? That's Pujol's and that. [[applause]] We'd better put it aside. No, man: investigate 155, fix 155. Not repairing the company flight, the problems we've had... no, no, no, we have to repair 155. Corruption, plugs, mismanagement, finger contracts, 3_per_cent, does that have to be investigated? No, not that; let's do a commissioner to investigate 155. Another of the things that you have said here: "We want to end the..., that the people who have been involved in this project, then, go to justice, don't we? ; you said 9-N, et cetera. I mean, he comes here to offer a law of impunity again, like the Puigdemont law we saw the other day. Impunity. And I also think that you have let go, I don't know whether consciously or unconsciously, for me, a key to your speech, when you have appealed to the municipal authorities to wait and see them as a plebiscite and a country project. So we are going to have a year until the municipal with these gentlemen, with these gentlemen here, with wood, with confrontation, with conflict, with process, until the next municipal. You, forgive me for telling you, you didn't come here to run a government, you came here to run a CoR. [[relays]] You have come here to direct a CoR. [[Greetings.]] From his speech – I keep referring to his speech – he says: "No, we want..., I was surprised by one thing: "No, we want a feminist republic. Man, so after having won the election for the first time in history a woman, let the four candidates you bring here be four men, all right we don't start, huh? All right, we don't start. [[Greetings.]] But, well... For the government plan and social issues, for that you refer to Mr Turull's speech. Which is surprising, because I want to explain that the candidate for an investiture session has no time limit. I mean, I have a time limit, I have to choose very well what I tell you, because I have only thirty_minutes. You have much more time: unlimited you have whatever you want. There has been no bother in trying to talk a little more about social policies; I insist, though to conceal. No, no, not at all. You, of what are the real issues of Catalans, which affects us all, independenceists and non-independenceists, of that you go ahead. And I'm not saying it, it's just that you're interested in independence. And I'm not saying it, you said it; you said it in an article – it's that there's oil in your articles, huh? , I have to say – textually, huh? «I have decided that I am only interested in the independence of my country and that I cannot trust anyone who does not have it as a priority tomorrow at eight in the morning. So you social and economic policies already know that no; we will always see it in independence, independence, independence. I ask you, Mr. Torra, if you become president of the Generalitat, what do you intend to do with the waiting lists in health? Do you know that there are 160,000 people in Catalonia, independence and non-independence, who are waiting for an operation in public health? What's going to happen this summer? Are you really going to hire replacements to help professionals do the service? Are you going to get back a hundred per cent of the PDOs? What will you do in healing? You haven't spoken a word today; what a shame, have you? The debt: 77,000_million_euros, which is said soon; the debt that all Catalans and our children and grandchildren have on their backs. What are you going to do to improve what debt management is? What will you do to cope with the situation in which the rating of all the autonomous communities is rising and that of Catalonia continues to fall? No one leaves us money outside the FLA, Mr. Torra. What will that imaginary republic do, what will you do with this debt? Poverty, it's gone over. We have a real internal problem in Catalonia – internal in Catalonia, internal in poverty. But not only poverty, but inequality, which you have not spoken about today in your speech, social inequality within Catalonia. Do you know that between neighborhoods in the same city we can find ourselves up to ten years apart in life expectancy? Ten years of difference in people's life expectancy, depending on the neighborhood where they live. What will you do to address social inequality? Because that's not an outside problem; it's that the problem is that wealth is poorly distributed here. Do you have any thoughts or have I decided that I am only interested in independence? I'll talk to you about dependency. I know you're not interested, you're interested in independence. I'll talk to you about dependency. Do you know that Catalonia has the worst dependency lists in all of Spain? Do you know that autonomous communities with a worse funding system than ours have much more dignified dependency lists than we have in Catalonia? What are you going to do to solve it? Childhood. I don't know if you've had a chance to read the Save the Children report of 2018, but it's demolition – demolition – in Catalonia. In Catalonia only 0.8_per_cent of GDP is allocated, while in the Spanish average – we are not going to compare ourselves to Europe – they dedicate 1.3_per_cent of GDP. Is this also the fault of the rest of Spain? Is it our fault? Are we to blame or are we not to blame for how we distribute and prioritize resources from our budgets? Education............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... « A success model – « a success model. We see the success model. Do you know that Catalonia is the autonomous community where parental money most influences the academic outcome of children? Is that a model of success? Success model for whom? For families with resources? Do you know that Catalonia is the autonomous community where children from outside Spain have the worst academic results? What is that, a model of success? What will you do to improve this success model? Because, of course, if you think it's very good, I guess you won't touch it, will you? He wants to block it, because it's going so well... It's going so well, the model d'éxit, which turns out we have to approve a moratorium, because those who finish university studies, i.e. the most formed Catalans in Catalonia, cannot believe a B2 of English, a B2! Is that a model of success? Industry. You've appealed to the Covenant for industry. We've been working here a lot for years and entities have been working for this pact for years. Do you know what's missing? Political will – political will. There are many measures of this pact – when you get a chance, you look at it – that do not require a budget, that are of internal coordination, that are of better management, that are of better regulation, that are of improvements of elimination in bureaucratic obstacles. His Government, the previous one, has done nothing. What are you going to do to improve this? We're on. Do you know that the Catalans who charge fifteen_ thousand_euros, sixteen_ thousand_euros, are the Catalans who pay the most taxes from all over Spain? Is this okay with you? That's the decision of the Generalitat, because with the autonomous stretch you go down or up; it's yours. Is it okay, is it fair, is it reasonable for Catalans to continue paying for their new chiringuitos? The most embassy commissioner, he said, didn't he? It's going to open. Because, of course, it is fundamental, the internationalization of the process is fundamental. That Catalans pay less or improve social cohesion within the educational model and that children in families with fewer resources have better results, that is not a priority, no. The priority is Commissioner 155. We continue, because I don't have much time and I do have time limitations. Environment; not a word I think he said in his speech. You know the worrying indicators – if you've said so, I haven't heard, have you? I don't think you've even named it – water quality, aquifer pollution that we have in Catalonia? What do you plan to do? Or is that also a solution by putting a border? With a border with Aragon, we already have the cleanest air, don't we, Mr. Candidate? What do you think of the environment? Does he have something planned, or has he also referred to Turull, whom I believe he did not say much? Let's see what we can expect more from you. I ask you: do you have an answer to some of the questions I have asked you not to be independent of Spain? Do you have anything different? Because, if you are going to come out here to tell us that the environment, that inequality, that education, that waiting lists, that dependence, that poverty, that debt, that childhood, that industry, that the IRPF can be solved only with independence, can be saved. Because it's not true – because it's not true – Mr.Torra. Because we have a lot of skills here. Because here Catalans, independentists and non-independentists, share problems, are on the same waiting lists – they are on the same waiting lists – with the same problems, with the same job insecurity, with the same discrimination, with everything; we share problems. Why do you strive to divide us, when we have much more that unites us than not separates us? This reality that I make manifest to you is the reality of Catalans. It is not the imaginary republic of Puigdemont, where we now know that two people live: Mr Puigdemont and Mr Torra. No! No! We have problems, like 3_per_cent or corruption. Neither a measure – nor a measure – to fight corruption. Ah! Now! When we have independence, nobody's gonna steal here, right? There won't be 3_per_cent with independence here, because independent countries don't have corruption, right? Supposedly. With the description of the social reality that I make to you, I sincerely believe that what Catalonia needs is a pact for social and economic policies. And let all of us here, who represent all the Catalans, put aside our differences and focus on what unites us, and let's talk about infrastructure, and let's talk about education, and let's talk about fighting corruption, also from here, huh? , not only from there, but also from here: 3_per_cent and these things that you don't like to remember. Let us talk about dependence, let us talk about taxes, let us talk about improving the management of the public administration, which is not just an increase in budgets, Mr Torra. And that's one of the things I want to move: it's not just how much more money we put into every policy, which is also important, it's how we sometimes improve the efficiency of policies. And that's political will – that's political will. But I, here, have really listened to you carefully and your speech, political will to work in Catalonia with the skills we have, I have not seen it. By the way, business returns – business returns. Two thousand five hundred companies have already confirmed, they have completed all the procedures to go to Catalonia. Do you have any business return plans? We carry it on the electoral programme and it seems to me that it is fundamental. Is your government going to put in place a business return plan, saying that Puigdemont has done everything very well and that we continue, and that he comes and gives him, and that more firewood? You say: « No, dialogue; dialogue with the Government of Spain. Dialogue, exactly – I ask – for what? To see how we split up? To see how we split up? To see how we distribute assets and liabilities? Because his speech has been very clear: they have no other priority than making the republic. You are going to resume the laws that have been suspended. You're going to go further, you're going to make a consell of the republic, eliminating us from here from the parliamentary debate, because you're going to make one just for..., you're taking the Scattergories, aren't you? Since they don't have the power here, then they take it and form one of their own. Dialog, for what? And besides, you forget a little detail, Mr. Torra, if you become president. Do you know what is the first dialogue that needs to be started urgently, now, quickly? The dialogue between Catalans. Because you have not come here to recognize that we have a half-way society, that there is half Catalonia that feels that those who have trampled their rights are not the Government of Spain, but you. Do you understand? I understand, and respect, and I know and understand that there are millions of Catalans who have their vision, but do you understand, respect, know and consider that there are millions of Catalans who think the opposite of what you think? Because you haven't made any reference to that. [[Greetings.]] Dialeg, Diáleg intern, reconciliation, agreement, pact, recovering wounds... But if you do not recognize that the Catalan society is divided into two, if you do not recognize that Catalonia is also the people who feel Catalan and Spanish, if you do not speak in third person of the Spaniards who see Catalonia, which canvas will also marinate, have more articles, eh? I'm sure I'll believe that for the whole legislature... I don't know how long it'll last, but... Aren't you aware of the responsibility you can hold your hands in your own ways? What a lost opportunity, to come here to the Househouse, after six months of blocking and after all that we've suffered, after all the businesses that have left, after all the families that have broken away, all the friendships that will never be the same again. After all this, do you come here with the same speech or worse yet? Independence... haven't you found a candidate who makes a little more to try to recognize the social problem we have? Does independence already give up all this? Is this your real candidate? Is it true that everyone I am here, in Parliament, in the independence parties considers Mr. Torra to be a good candidate? I see some faces that I don't know if I think I do or not, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But there will not be a new stage without recognizing that the process has been a failure, that the process has not gone smoothly, that the Catalan society has gone through and that all Catalans and Catalans must be respected, and the independence people must be respected. You've deluded the independenceist people and won't give them a Catalan republic. You should be the first to recognize your voters that all this has been a farce that hasn't gone away. They could begin to recognize that we would all be among the solutions, when you want to recognize the error, to descend from this imaginary republic, when you recognize that this did not go away. Everyone, everyone, that his speech is another shot of Catalonia, Catalans from his perspective. No, Mr. Torra, forget more than half the Catalans. And when you, in your articles, say the Spaniards who live in Catalonia, you mean the 75_percent of the people of Catalonia, who feel Catalan and Spanish. I should have made a landing. You'd have to think about all this. You don't want... conflict or the 155th. 155 applied because, precisely, there was a government that did everything that Mr. Torra said he would do again. So, of course, they don't want 155 to fall. Do you know why I think you don't want 155 to fall? Because there is no answer to the questions I have asked in the social and economic sphere, only the magical imaginary answer, this magic rod, of Catalonia's independence. No answer, no answer; no idea that you do not imply a recognition of the weakness of independence in this process. No, it's all Spain's and Spanish's fault, which you hold so dear to them, huh? It's all their fault, isn't it? Because, here, total..., let's not be mistaken, we're better, we're Catalans, according to his ideology. Well, independence has lost a great opportunity today – a great opportunity – and all Catalans will suffer the consequences. Because, today, there was an opportunity: a candidate to fight the Faristol; to recognize mistakes, too, of independence; to say that we have a social problem; to say that we have to dialogue, first, internally; to say that we have to return to the situation; to say that we have to work on what we can share, in education, in sanitation, in infrastructure... But Mr Puigdemont is a specialist in losing opportunities. Look what he's got, huh? Mr. Puigdemont, to resume the situation, to call elections when he could call them? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now I had the option of saying, "Well, I didn't get out of it and that all this is over, so let's go see if we can put in a person who, at least, can..., well, carry on the situation, correct mistakes... No, no..., Mr. Torra. Mr. Torra, here, to the investiture session. A lost opportunity, perfect to start the reconciliation, perfect to change the course to the Generalitat de Catalunya, perfect to start the agreements, perfect to build bridges again with the rest of Spain, which you have broken with these declarations. God don't do it! - God damn it! God damn it! – Mr. Torra, there's no god! With you, what is guaranteed? Closer? More reconciliation? More social policies? More economic policies? Reforms? Normal change to get better? No, no, With you, the only thing, if it's up to being president, that's guaranteed is more confrontation, more conflict and more process. And that's why you're here. That's why you're here, you're not going to do anything else. You're not here to rule Catalonia. You are here to lead a CoR from the Government of Catalonia. That's it. It's his pocket. And I heard it very carefully, didn't I? I heard him very carefully, because he thought, "Well, today he will try to hide a little. No, firewood. Catalonia cannot afford to waste more time, more resources, more entrepreneurs, more friends, more opportunities. And now what we have, still, is another missed opportunity. I don't know if you'll end up feeling the President of the Generality, Mr. Torra. I don't think you're clear either, but what I can assure you is that you can never be the president of all Catalans, I assure you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.9.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. As the candidate has notified us that he would make a joint reply at the end of the group's interventions, it is now the return of Mr Sergi Sabrià, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.10.0	Good afternoon, President. President of Parliament, Members, Members, Members, Members of Parliament, did not want us to make a reference, did not want us to win elections, did not want us to invest a president, did not want us to make a government. In order not to want, they would not want us to think as we think, nor much less that we express it as often as we express it. In order not to want, perhaps, they would not want or have been, but our existence is also proof of their weakness. We are here raised up, raised up by dignity, by conviction, for all those who have preceded us. We know that before we did, a lot of other people resisted because we were here today. And his victory was to give us the opportunity to win. Because we can win, and in fact, that's what we're doing. We're not even where we want to be, as sure as we're as far away as ever. And now that we're playing, we won't fail, we won't give up, we've never done it, we didn't do it when we were very few, we didn't do it when we were the only ones, we won't do it now that we're more about the object than ever. For them, for all of them, we have to keep moving forward. But today we are here, especially for companies and companies that can't be unfairly. There are for the Oriol and there are for the Marta, for the Carmel, for the Raül, for the Pain, for the Toni, for the Txell, for the Jordis, for the Quim, for the Josep, for the Jordi Turull, for the Carles, for the Lluís, for the Clara and for the Year, and I do not want to forget either the Lluís and the Josep Maria. For all of them and many others that I unfairly leave me and that have given me everything, absolutely everything, we are here today. For every one of them, we're hundreds willing to grab their stuff. They didn't want us to make a referendum, they didn't want us to win elections, they didn't want us to invest a president, they didn't want us to make a government, they wouldn't want us to, surely, or exist, but we exist and every day – every day – we are more. [[Greetings.]] Since the same night of 21st December, earlier and later, when the government and the state unlawfully ceased to call unilateral elections with marked cards, we knew that this legislature would be exceptional and the outcome of 21st December made it even more exceptional, referring to a victory of independence against all prognosticism. But, even in an extraordinary legislature, the goal for the Republican Left remains unalterable, more than ever: to work to gain freedom and make Catalonia become a republic with all its effects; a politically free, socially just and economically free republic. And we'll do it like we've always done, from every front, to institutions and the streets, and from municipalities all over the country. And we will also do so, and above all, from this Parliament, the head of the democratic will of the assembly of the citizens of Catalonia; a parliament that cannot follow the orders of a government, Spanish, to which the citizens of this country have rewarded with four deputies, four out of 135. From the left we are convinced that to make republic, to weave the country, it is better to have all the possible tools and to put them to the service of all the citizens and not to leave them in the hands of an opponent who has made, and we have just seen, the division, their only political program. So now I'm going to talk to you about how we're going to enforce democracy, respect the rights of speech and the freedoms that are at risk today, and also the need to get the institutions back. And in this we were pleased to agree, today, with candidate Quim Torra, because we have been explaining it for many months: to have government and to have, therefore, much more strength to build this republic. And, finally, how to do it, in the proper months, through the action of the Government, from the external action and also from the mobilization to the street. Today, we do an act of dignity, of courage, of courage, especially you, Quim. Today, together, a step forward. And we want to thank the courage, the courage to assume responsibility at this difficult time, the task of leading a strong republic government, which will be people's and people's, as you have said, that it will follow a project of future that looks neither at origins, nor languages, nor traditions nor beliefs, but a common goal: the republic to build a country that is fairer, cleaner and freer. "Democracy always guanya. This was the Republican Left's slogan in the past elections, and it's the idea that will ultimately triumph. For so much that I have everything prepared so that it was not so, by many vetoes, by many traps, by many politicized judgments, by many interpreted laws, by many repression, let us hold that it has interposed, we will again be another time in a plethora of investiture. We return to the Parliament of Catalonia to choose a president of the Government of the Generality. We return to invest, once again, an independent president, to continue the road to the republic and to do so on the basis of the October catalá: the 1st of October and the 3rd of October. And we've done it despite the interference of a state that hasn't paid for defeat in the polls, despite its brute play. We are here to continue, every day – every day – defending democracy. Because democracy is the only way we contemplate and the way we never – never, ever – give up. Democracy and the ballot boxes are our playground, a land where we always win, politics and democracy, today and always. We won September 27th, we won October 1st, we won December 21st, and we would follow it as many times as anyone else. Today, despite all the misfortunes, democracy is once again required. We will vote for a candidate for the presidency of the Generality and make the victory of the 21st of December, an unpopular victory – unpopular. And Parliament will re-exercise its sovereignty, because this is its people's sovereignty, the people. If they are not able to win us in the polls, work harder, convince more, but leave the courts in pain, and, above all, out of politics; they tell them, after all, from Europe. We already know that you are more than lucky than not to convince; to cry out, as we have seen again, than not to convince; but we also know that this is how they have lost everything, and so they also lose Catalonia. Today, we demand the government of the state that you accept defeat, defeats – that of October, that of December –; that I stop interfering, and that I respect the election results. We tell him that, if he wants to win Catalonia, you do it through the ballot boxes, that we are in the 21st century, although they feel very clean at other times. And, as we have always said, and also recollecting the words of candidate Torra, we always call the dialect. We wear many months, many, since the 21st of September, sure that mass, sure that we could have done better; but we cannot forget that the situation is absolutely exceptional and unfair, arbitrary and perverse. After having had the legitimate proposal of the winner of the elections between the majority bloc, President Carles Puigdemont, the proposal of Jordi Sánchez, and also Jordi Turull, for whom I want to have a very special record; after the State has shown that it does not bother them Puigdemont or Sánchez or Turull and now Quim Torra, but that it bothers them is that we have won, and therefore, at the end of the day that it bothers them are not the names, that it bothers them is democracy, the injustice that we are living has prevented three pre-candidates to president, that we have had the last months, three good and innocent men, to live the day of today from prison and from exile. Prepared people, capable people, who have had to leave behind for the country, and to whom we want to say, another time, that we do not forget, do not forget, that we do not stop until you return home, all of us – all of us – another time home. [[Greetings.]] But the State has preferred to fail democratically, to lend all legitimacy and international prestige to rubble. They're not credited. I, in change, we still have a lot of strength. The state's legitimate crisis in Catalonia is irrecoverable. October 1st opened the left most beast in the 78's, created a perforated result of the immobilism and the permanent passiveness of the State in Catalonia and in the will of the Catalans; a left for the immense ridiculous not to find the ballot box, but, above all, a left that was immense for the violence shut down against innocent people who only wanted to vote. And they did it all over the world – all over the world – who saw the fucking shots broadcast live. They can already try to create stories, they can already make the joke to the BBC or to all the international televisions, that everyone knows what happened and who exercised the violence. That day will haunt them forever. The left of those weeks, but especially the left of day 1, is the greatest and the most irreparable, sure; but so true is that it is not the only one. Unfair enterprise and political motives out of place in any European democracy, persecution of the fundamental rights and freedoms are also creating another left. Raül Romeva said, not for many days, in an article that recalled the struggles of non-violence, that arrested her will serve to show the fevers of a failed democratic project, the drift of a state that has ceased to be democratic. The injustice of this shameful arrest exposes the State, it is authoritarianism and indecency that would cause the regime to fall. The State is the worst enemy of the State and is attacking the fundamental rights. He's running out of credit and creating conditions so we can finally get our freedom. But it still has many more lefts: excessive debt, poor management of pension funds, galloping corruption, succeeding governments dedicated solely– only– to caring for the elites, systemic violation of civil and political rights, persecution of dissent and an unprepared economy. A state with no project and no political alternatives at all. And, said that, it is also true that we cannot need its strength, nor its repressive capacity: we have tested it. But it is clear that the Spanish State is submissive to a level of degradation of its own system, that we are sure that it will never recover again. And this is the choice that we can burcate every day to make them fall, so that we can finally develop the republic. And this... – the defense of the rights, the freedoms, the democracy, the struggle against the 78th rule that is to be perpetuated at the expense of the progress and the welfare of the citizens – must be a finding point for a large majority of Members of this House, for a very large majority, much more than those who today voted Quim Torra; a finding point within, but also outside the Parliament. Democracy and the freedoms of the State are in peril and here, at this point of falling a lost, retrograde, worthless monarchy, we can't find ourselves alone. Those of us who defended October 1st must be all together, because when we stand alone against this State, those who are not members of its lower class, leave the citizens alone against a state that no longer cares for its citizens and leave them alone against its authoritarianism. We wait for them at our side in a fight that is also for democracy and that is also for Republican values. This country needs a government. Citizenship needs to be put back into operation in this country. We have to get back the institutions we used with 155 and we have to do it because it is essential to make republic. We know it's not enough, but we do know it's strictly necessary. It is obvious that the Catalan institutions are not the institutions that we would like to have much less that the Catalans need, but it is just as true that to make republic we need government. There is a virtuous triangle that needs to be put back in value: society, people, who have always been a step ahead of us and who have been the mainstay in this way to the republic; institutions, without the government, without the parliament, all that we have achieved until now would have been absolutely impossible, and we need to recover them to continue walking, and the local world, in year 31 as today, are a mainstay in the social transformation of the republican construction. Today we want to take a step further in the recovery of the Government of the Generality, to put down again one of the most important fish, and this piece has to help us roll the rest. As has happened in other moments of history, we find ourselves before two models of society, two conceptions of reality and two ways of confronting it. On one side, a projectless state, which does not only have a project for Catalonia, but also does not have a project for its State; they only offer immobilism and a government to serve the elite. I have demonstrated the suspension of all the social laws approved in this Parliament in recent years, but also its infrastructure system, its passengerless trains, airports without planes, its policy to offer the most dynamic sectors of the State, its State, always denying us the resources to make cable infrastructure for us, such as the Mediterranean Corridor. I've demonstrated his monstrous corruption, impunity for all levels, inflated curricula, and gifted masters. It shows, too, the change in the law of loggers, for example – that they are certainly manifesting themselves now and we send them a hug from here. His new model only seeks to serve elites and large businesses. And against all this you can't disagree: and take, they threaten you, they implore you, and many, they appoint you, they insult you. They have begun for independence because it is the only and true opposition, the only and true option of change to the established model, to the status quo. But that's not just against independence, everyone who disagrees is in danger today. And before this model, the republic is the change, the only possible change. And you know it, and as long as you know it! The only option is to make a country fairer, cleaner, freer; the only way to guarantee phonenal rights and freedom, the only option to live in a free, modern and advanced democracy. This process will be studied. It's a revolution from below against a Spanish state that can't dialogue, that can't compromise, that can't win, that can't defeat. But the story has shown us that often, in the long run, which has not been defeated is the same Spanish State, and this time it won't be different. The Catalan Republic, Catalonia's independence is now a fact. There's no going back. The only one that is in discussion is when it will be effective definitively. There are more than two million people who do not want to be part of the Spanish State and there are many more who, little by little, joined this democratic revolution, the real change. The state makes Republicans, expels democrats, while the Spanish progressives mostly watch and look at themselves very far away. At a time when no one can doubt that the repression of the State will continue and that the proper struggle is inevitable, as can we do to face this better situation and win? They smell stronger. And to be stronger in our institutions, however, they will also – and they will also – be warmer, they will continue to grow, they will maintain the political majority that allows us to win all the elections, but they will also create the line of the social majority, with so many that there is no alternative, overflowing them many times as they did on October 1st; but, at the same time, they will always show us open to dialogue – always open to dialogue – with Spain, with Europe, with the world. Espanya guanya loses it, but in her ever negotiating by her own will. The Spanish State will only negotiate if it is obliged to do so. Only by the pressure of the people, the institutions and the international community will we be able to get this moment to come. Now we know we're cheating more than we expected, and we liked each other, but it's true, too, that no other scenes are possible. Today's strategy is to get various yarns on different fronts; yarns that, together, will bring us to victory. One of these children has the opportunity to take shape right now: to recover the institutions for the city, all the institutions for the whole city. Without institutions, we can't win. There is no dichotomy between government and republic. We have a government of resistance that is helping us to go to the republic. And that's why we need a government of the Generality that is very, very strong. They need to resist. We need to defend the citizens of Catalonia, despite the fact that the Generality and the self-government are speaking and speaking today. We need to take up all the space of city empowerment. Getting the government back, so, it's the first step, but there are no others, it's not the only one. Lead a democratic front in defence of civil liberties and rights. President Torrent's proposal to build a large anti-repressive front involving as many sensitivities as possible was very important. Today's transversality is not a luxury, it's a necessity before a state that is absolutely capable of defending the Spanish unit, even passing over democracy and the rights of the people, as everyone sees. Also, from the government – and here we have a project that seems to us to be of use – to set aside an office for civil and political rights that examines all violations of rights and works to curb a fascism that is now on our closed streets. Accompany citizen mobilization to the street, permanently, civically and peacefully. The mobilization on the street always civic, always peaceful, as the Catalans have always done, has now been, and must continue to be, one of our phonative powers. We must continue to mobilize and act, demonstrating that this movement of ours is broad, diverse and cross-cutting, based on the principles of civil disobedience, from the point of view and through the point of view, with determination as we have done every September 11th, as we did October 1st and as we did, also October 3rd, with the essential communion of the October catalá, the institutions and the citizens. In order to further expand this social majority, we want to build a solid and indisputable majority in favour of the republic, eliminating this project to make it attractive to people and collectivities of progressive sensitivity. It must always be present and still that we are a people's sun. Independence has arrived where it had never arrived, and we will continue working in this line, ejamplant, open, weaving what has taught us all these years the Oriol Junqueras. We want to be more, we want to be a solid, broad and indisputable majority, to ensure that the republic project is material and that it is a reality. And how do we get this majority? From the entrance, on the street, there are present in all and each of the dialog spaces that open up in our country. We have a great country dialect; a great country dialect with a vocation they constitute. We want to listen to everyone, that no one – no one, no one – feels excluded from the construction of a new country, freer, cleaner and fairer. A country that we want, too, with equal opportunities for everyone. A feminist country and an ecological country; a country with republican values as the main presentation letter. Also, from the government, demonstrating, another time, that we are a guarantee of good governance, recovering and improving social policies, reinvesting three_of_each_four euros in social policies, bringing out tax fraud, demonstrating that we are relentless – relentless – against corruption. We aspire to build a republic where everyone feels represented and that's why we need to embrace more people. We want to make government for a republic. And make republic make republicans and republicans. And for that it will be key to start working from now on, immediately. The first one that will need to be done is a plan to reverse everything that caused 155, as candidate Torra has proposed: to recover the delegations abroad, to put in operation the office for civil and political rights, to protect the Catalan school and the model of success that linguistic immersion represents; to work without rest to give answer to the needy doubts as a consequence of all the laws fallen to the Constitutional Court. We need to look for the choice to make possible the object that each of them had, because our objective is always, and before any other, to help and protect our people. I'll do it. It will be necessary to make a determined bet for social policies, to govern for everyone, and, at this point, we must commit ourselves to the deployment of guaranteed citizenship income. To deploy, also, the Catalan Agency of Social Protection as a vertebrator instrument of the efficiency and effectiveness of social policies in Catalonia. Continue the bet to universalize health care. Resuming the management of the Catalan economy that so many successes are having in the past few months, despite the speeches, always catastrophic and irresponsible, of this bench. A growing economy, a declining debt and a department that has aspired to generate dynamism, and, at times, invest more in social spending than ever before. Our priorities are clear, and this must be immediate: we can't wait another day. But the fronts don't end here. And there is one thing: to continue internationalizing the cause of the republic and also winning the judicial front. The international front is essential to spread the Catalan cause, and above all to win the judicial front. It may continue to work to denounce the judicialization of politics, the politicization of justice and the repression of the State. We need to press ahead to free the prisoners and the prisoners and return the exiles and exiles home. To make it clear, at European level and in the appropriate bodies, that democracy and the rule of law are in danger in the Spanish State. Berlin, Geneva, Brussels, Scotland will be instrumental in this area to pursue victories, to visualize our cause at all times. The free space of exile, with Puigdemont in the front, will result in a decisive pot of this multiplicity of fronts. It will be essential to win the European battle. First, that of justice; then, that of the societies of each country. And, finally, win, too, the same state. These fronts can be neglected. We won't get out if we make a sun, we need all of them, and we need all of them at once. Recovery of institutions, democratic front, citizen mobilization, expansion of the social majority and internationalization of the cause. It's all about us, and it's about time. We're as far away as we've ever been. We walk from '1 October and looking forward. And to keep him working every day for social cohesion, as we've always done. It's our republican DNA. Those who want to divide us have been wrong about country and have been wrong about movement. This is a land of concoction, diverse, that we have built among all, that has worked from diversity to build a country for everyone. With this spirit they paved the streets, they raised sentient barrels, they boosted linguistic immersion and public communication media. With this spirit they got the workers' demands, fought the war of Iraq, fought the transfer of the Jew, did the 1st of October and did the 3rd of October. In this country it's the same as you come, it's the same as you think, it's the same as if your language or your god, the important thing is the common goals, ours is and must always be an open catalanity, without anyone ever stopping being who you are, ever. [[Greetings.]] We're a people's only, we've always defended it, we've always practiced it. They won't get mixed up in their idea of dividing this society. We will continue to work, as always, to talk to everyone, to listen to everyone and to rule for everyone. As happened in the eighty-seven years of history, the people of Esquerra are willing to play us - I'm still willing to win the freedom of this country, and not to win it one day, to win it forever. We are the ones who never give up, the ones who never get tired, the ones who persist, persist and persist. The ones we've always been and there always are: heresies of Macia, of Companies, of Irla, of Tarradellas, of Carbonell. Proud companies of Junqueras i Rovira. If they didn't get tired, if they didn't give up, if they gave it all away and they gave it all away, and they're where they are for giving it all away for the freedom of this country, who can think we're going to give it up now? [[Greetings.]] For all this we will give our support to candidate Quim Torra. For all this we offer to falsify this government, because you can work from now on to reverse the effects of 155 and bring the country back on the path of freedom. For all this, we will put all our political capital, organization and personnel to the service of this shared project. To continue working to make the republic come true from all over where we are present. For all this we will continue to feel, now, as it has been eighty-seven years, the most faithful partner of the people of Catalonia. In other words, from Esquerra we have been at the forefront of the movement, and we will do it again as many times as anyone else. Left, as she has always done, she is willing to open the way, to excavate majorities without prejudice, without complexities, to add, add and add, as we do with Democrats, with Mes, Advance, as we do today with so many citizens, as we always do, in addition, as Oriol Junqueras has asked us. We're breaking through, we're doing the republic by democratic victory, with the sole force of votes, and the active involvement of the citizenry. We applaud and encourage the call to the dialog asked for today by the candidate for the Spanish State. We've always defended him. Late or late, a dialogue between the equals and the intermediation of the European institutions will be necessary as the only way to finally resolve this disagreement that no longer has a back door. The Republican Left of Catalonia is the daughter of Republican values, the daughter of freedom, equality and fraternity, and we will never give up this legacy. But our republicanism, in the 21st century, is not only the preference for a form of state, but it is a determined bet for a way of being and of doing. We don't just want to be a more country, we want to be a better country. Our republicanism is the synthesis of all just causes, and it is also, at this very moment, its only possibility of materializing: from feminism to ecology and the rights of animals; from pacifism, anti-fitism and anti-racism, to the defense of the rights of the LGTBI collectivists. From the ‘life of dignity...', or to the gathering of refugees...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.11.0	Mr. Sabria...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.12.0	Thirty-seconds, President. Fight, all of them, that are synonymous with republicanism that we abandon without complex, because the republic is the only opportunity to make a better country. We have the right to win. In fact, we have the obligation to win. We've seen too often in our eyes defeat, and we never want to see it again. But, as Oriol Junqueras told us, in these defeats there was the end of all victories, and we would make it possible. And allow me to end with one of the sentences that our esteemed secretary general, Marta Rovira, told us just the day he took the path of exile: « Against no one, against others, only from respect and love to all citizens and all opinions, we are basing radical and profound changes. Only from the joint work will we get a republic for all and for all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.13.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units for Progress, of Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.14.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the candidate, will not be surprised, but I would like to begin by confirming that he will not have our vote in favour, nor our abstention, but I would like to justify it from respect for all political positions, and even more so, for people. He won't have them for the way he was proposed, because it's not just that he digitally proposed it – it was the digital Catalonia you were talking about – but that you accepted the subordination to whom you consider legitimate president. I, about that... I have to respect it. You think he's the legitimate president, but it's that many Catalans can only consider the president who gets the confidence of this Parliament to be legitimate. And, therefore, you could say that he will be president of the Generality, if he is up there, thanks to Puigdemont and with the permission of the UPC. The government has already done it. And now we are already reading to La Stampa that it seems that the call for proper elections will also make it there. Listen to me, it's not good... but not for you, which, in other words, you could only say, just for the institution. The Presidency of the Generality is the highest institution in our country, cannot be subordinated to any other person and to any other settlement. And it does us the effect that, like Arthur But chose the profile, so to speak, more irony, more phonementalist – and I don't say it disrespectfully, but more, in other words... "irony, I think it's the most appropriate word in Catalan – as a successor, in Carles Puigdemont it seems that he chose the same criteria at the time of proposing it to you. And you accept me, and explicitly accept your superior authority. By understanding that many Catalans can't accept a downgraded president, they can't. Out of respect for the institution, the state and the laws. I don't need to remind him what the presidency law says. Says: "The President of the Generality has the highest representation of the Generality. It also has the ordinary representation of the State in Catalonia. The President or President of the Generality directs and coordinates the action of the Government. And, let me, and maybe it's a damage and we'd be happy to get rid of it, but we don't know what that's gonna be today. You agreed to be temporary president and by delegation. And we don't want a temporary president and a delegation. I, therefore, cannot support your candidacy. Besides, you've made an effort, your little speech, to say that you speak for the country's side, for the society's side, for all Catalans. But we consider, in change, that you have only addressed the Catalans who already support the independence project. As I have said in principle, it will be his decisions and his concrete action as chairing what allows us to judge with full knowledge of the case and objectivity. Now, we do allow ourselves to say, out of respect, that without reviewing some of the ideas that you have gone along with time, it is very difficult that you can address the joint venture of society and aspire to represent it. And it is true that – I said before Inés Arrimadas – tweets are sometimes the fruit of a moment, we would say, in short, of tension, but it is that you have written things, as for example this, in 2010. He says: "If Mrs. Martinez-Sampere and President Montilla are Catalanists, it is obvious that some of us have a problem. There's not everyone here. Look, Mr. Candidate, if there's not everyone here, there won't be anyone left. [[Greetings.]] I have to say that I took the appointment because you were thinking about concrete people, but it's true that some time you have theorized about this, saying it's hard for you to imagine that outside independence there is Catalanism. But, believe me, there is, and a lot. Historically, everything. And now, too. But do you allow'much...' after listening to Sergi Sabria's abrasions, or not so much, so they'll open the base? , expelling the what...? Those who aren't independent anymore won't count? , until they're still arguing about their catalanity? It doesn't seem like the way it sounds to me; it sounds a lot like "our own alone." And we believe that this is not the answer to today's Catalonia. You, moreover, speak – and we respect the approach –: « We can recover the republic, « we can restore the republic, « we can restore republic, « republican values, « project republic, « republican mandate... Very well. If I'm not wrong, the central concept of republicanism is citizenship, not language, not ethnic or identity: citizenship. And you tend to forget it, it seems to us, in many of the things you've done. [[Greetings.]] But this republic, which is everyone's wish, should not lay down barriers, and less of all language barriers, which would seem a mistake to us. But it's that, you know, it's true that sometimes it's very slow, and that's not critical, but one has to measure a little. In an interview in 2015, he said: "If Spain is wrong and sends us the tanks, we will win a lot; so much good send them to us, because we can gain some sympathy. Home, Mr. Candidate, don't send them to us! I hope you've changed your mind, because we imagine you're going to the presidency; I'd do two things: put a faulty tower on the entrance to the Diagonal to warn and do everything possible to get someone to send them. Home, no; it's no way. [[Greetings.]] Moreover, when I quoted the article according to the Law of the Presidency of the Generality, I made it expressly, citing that you, if you were president of the Generality, would witness the ordinary representation of the State in Catalonia; you would be more than ever, or so you would have to shout them at the same time and re 'em. Home, no, it doesn't seem the most appropriate. But the linguistic issues, indeed, in some of the issues that you have raised, have concerned us. Deia – said –: "The language... – and it seems to me that Inés Arrimadas has quoted a very similar fragment, if not this one –, he says, "any language of any country of the world is the soul of the country; without language there is no country, and when it is decided not to speak in catalá it is decided to turn the scale in Catalonia. Miri, it's as much to say that half of Catalans have turned the scales to their country. So no. Just what you said about the PSC, and I included, say: "Poor, they speak Spanish as Spanish. Well, in fact, the PSC likes us to speak languages; and I, who speak, apart from the Catalan and the castle, therefore, the English and the French in an acceptable way. But you seem to have the problem with the castle. Don't you think the castle is the language of many Catalans? What is it that can't conceive of a country where various languages are spoken? How do you want to aspire to represent the city council if you consider that those who don't speak Catalan have turned the corner in the country? You, on the other hand, are willing to speak in the castle when you speak to the king or the president of the government. But, in change, it seems that it costs you to accept that many Catalans usually speak it. I'll say it easier: the castle is not a foreign language to Catalonia. If I – I – preside above recommend that you strive to accept this reality, and that you value the consensus widely worked in favor of language, and do not make mistakes that break down these basic consensuss, which some are already asking, in a country as diverse and plural as ours. For these and other things, we will have neither our vote in favour nor our abstention. But there are certainly many things in your speech that deserve to be discussed. Because sometimes it seems like the investiture debate is all well and well... well, in this way it doesn't seem to be, but anyway, as if you're already done, right? It takes one thing as if we lose a bit of dramatic tension, as if here we just came to lay a seal and officialize, as in an administered process, the most important political act that this Parliament has at its fingertips. Nor will I say that this is a historic day – we have abused so many historical days, that maybe we don't need to – but..., maybe, more, like now you consult the women by phone, we call each other one day for the other, loses a little, in short, institutional sense, from my point of view. But we, who from the first day we said that we should choose the president and form the government, today we don't want to look very sad if we really elect a president and it's form the government. It's certainly not what we want, but you have won the elections and you have right to rule, and I would say the obligation to rule. What we can't do is mislead our institutions, what we can't do is skip the law, what we can't do is dispense with my country; but rule, choose a president and form a government, oh! So much. And what did we like? That, actually, some of the things that you said, and that we don't have the right to doubt intention, then they come true. You've talked a lot about dialog, many times, but listen to me, I, when I'm in the middle, doing a store – which I don't recommend, because reading while you're doing the store and making the speech... – I've read your speech..., and I'm saying: "And this man, how is he going to sit there, to talk? Having said that this morning to talk to the institutions of the State, I see it, as the moderns say now, a little resorted to. And, therefore, there is not enough to talk about dialog, there is not enough to offer it, I want it. And, president..., future president if he's invested, better said, we don't know, if that's possible. Because you also say: "No, I would not like to be here, there should have been another. I don't doubt it, I'm afraid. But, listen'm, if the president didn't invest..., as the new president Carles Puigdemont is because you decided not to disobey the Constitutional Court. And that's why the bad Cup, I think. I mean, no, I don't mean the Constitutional Court is good, is it? But here the decisions, in the end, and the responsibilities are everyone's. And if this is where he decided not to invest Carles Puigdemont, not to invest Jordi Sánchez, not to invest Jordi Turull is because the independence majority decided not to disobey. And it did well, I repeat. But don't just say "because there's an oppressive, painful, etcetera state, no, just because someone here should consider that, looking ahead and inconveniences, it might be better not to disobey again, given what had happened before. Of course, the proposal you have to suggest to us is a viable investment proposal. Another thing is that we don't like the layout you're doing. But on all sides we want to be glad that, indeed, if it is confirmed with the vote, it is likely that this investiture will start the legislature. You..., it is true that your trajectory has sometimes shown, from our point of view and, again, from respect, a certain softening, intolerance..., let's say it as we say. But I think it's true that in the end the habit can make the monk. Well, in Catalan... In fact, the quote is very good, because it says: "The habit does not make the monk, but distinguishes him. Or when you put it in the changing circumstances. I hope, in your case or in the case of any of the members of this chamber, that if you come up to become President of the Generality be aware of the enormous responsibility that it takes, not only for the development of its political project, but the responsibility that it takes towards the joint citizens of Catalonia. And today, it's true, there's been talk of pain. And it is true that serious pains are appreciated in Catalan society: the pains of those who have painfully experienced the application of Article 155, but also the pain of many who thought that, if it is not taken a measure of these characteristics, so to speak, their world is seeg out. I've seen this pain. And I don't want to put myself in an equidistant position, nor do I correspond, nor would it be fair, but I believe that whoever is president has to deal with all these pains. And that many times, when we talk about dialogue with the State, someone may think: "Listen, but if you are not able to agree between yourselves in this Parliament, how can you really do a dialogue with the institutions of the State? And it's not a minor issue. I already know that I insist a lot, and until I get weighed down, but if we ourselves have decided that to change our rules of the game is to call the support of two thirds of this Parliament, to change without having the support of a majority of non-members is to make sure, not just because of a problem of legality, that it would be quite a problem, as has been seen, but above all because there would be no social majority supporting that political operation. And then I heard him talking to you today for another set of processes. As in the previous legislature you were not, so you have no reason to know the task that the Committee on the Study of the Process constituted. That didn't go wrong. Well, there were people who were very happy, but we warned some of the risks. After that, the Constitutional Court decided that the conclusions of that study committee were effectively beyond the constitutional and statutory framework, and, therefore, that it was left, I forgive, in no way. Therefore, it counts, because I have always claimed the right of policy makers to make mistakes; but a certain obligation not to repeat them, is to say, if there are any mistakes, to follow us, to follow us, to crack us, to try something different, and the paths that have not worked, so, man, these should not be taken again. And before, I said to him, "Listen to me, when you talk about Spanish people like something outside, you forget among other things that there are many Catalans who feel Spanish. And, therefore, it is impossible to make a mention that can be read as less Spanish there is not a very significant part of the Catalan society that also feels concerned and affected. Therefore, if you are president, it would be impossible for you to make a comment of this nature without directly affecting the feelings of good on the part of Catalan society. Therefore, from this point of view, I do not say it as a warning, as a finding of the nine responsibilities that a person who acquired the condition of president of the Entomese Generality. It's true we don't all think alike. I was thinking these days if we didn't have to fold all the same campaign in favor of respect, that you put something like that as they say: "Listen, I don't think like you, but anyway, it doesn't happen, does it? You take it, don't you? – get over it, the Americans say. So let's not all think the same. And you're good. I don't think I'd know how to live in a country that everyone thinks the same. But if there is no such respect for different opinions, we really cannot move forward. And I'm hoping... yesterday a Catalan newspaper was talking about "resecting the affected fracture. It's... – I don't know whether you're interested or not, who cares or not; I don't, we sure as hell don't – but to come back, you have to have a very, very respectful, very empathetic attitude, to stand in the hair of those who have suffered from some or other circumstances. We are Catalans and Catalans, and we consider ourselves to be very self-governance and their institutions, and, therefore, we will not tire of insisting that any demerit, fall, decline of the institutions seems ill to us. And someone will say to us: "And look if it wasn't a downfall, a demerit, 155. Oh, so much! That's why we're waiting for him to get up. Now, we wouldn't want you to rise to 155 because now, in accounts of being directed from Madrid, we were from Berlin or Waterloo, because we still didn't go far. And we, too, will say, depending on what you are doing, self-government, institutions, control of this Parliament over the self-government of Catalonia can continue in peril. I haven't seen it in you, and I don't... I'd like to ask it there, but I don't think I've got it right, but at any rate I say it: the illegal unilateral way has failed, it's had huge costs, also for the people who are waiting at these times for a procedure or judicial procedures to end; we're not going back on a path that we know has huge costs for everyone. And so, when I feel them, we would say, as covetous or as cheerful – "proceedings are, "we'll make republic, "we'll throw for the right; sorry, he didn't say that, but I read "we'll throw for the right," I think, "we'll take it wrong. And my obligation as head of one of the chamber's parliamentary groups is to signify this risk. And the risk is there. If I may, the risk will certainly be in any case, but if you come up to be president you'll be president. That the risk, in any case, the prisoner who has the confidence of this chamber, not any others. And you said it in the speech, and I appreciated it: "Whatever we do, be responsible for us being part of the government." And I'm also saying: I don't know who will get laid, it's just like me; now your job will be, for me, the office of the President of the Generality. No, I'm saying that because we've read things that I don't want to give for good or for bad, but that's important. The symbols, the institutions, the legitimacy that gives us the normal functioning of Parliament, the relationship between Parliament and the Government and the President is vital. If it's the only one I think still has the recognition of the Catalan society's joint venture, other things may not hold it. Therefore, let us not disappoint, let us not erode ourselves those elements that make consensus among all. If you allow me, too, an example: if you are to donate Creus de Sant Jordi, which seems to me that every year yes, finally decide to whom, eh? That you don't do any more. From our point of view, this distinction between an internal government and an external government is not acceptable. I don't say that for you or for you you can have, we would say, a Carles Puigdemont recognition. I say that clearly; this is an absolutely personal issue. I do ask them to make the effort to separate what can be a legitimate political issue, or even personal, or esteem, or recognition, with what must be the function of our institutions. I think that we do have the right to set it up. I, at least, do so on behalf of our group. You say: "No, we will make a council of the republic. Home, before I said it Inés Arrimadas, a council in which only you are there, therefore, will have value for you. Don't ask others that we value one thing that doesn't make tea for us. And this country, I don't know if with an interested fracture, as I said yesterday a diary, or not, but it's fragmented, divided, and with fragile balances. I believe that the obligation of all policy makers is not to make this division and this fracture worse, not to make it irreversible, not to let a lack of respect ever make a process unstoppable, yes, this, of fragmentation. And we offer ourselves, in the measure that we continue to do so, to whoever it is, or to everyone, to try to avoid it. Neither did we like this obsession to say that this will last a little while. I already know that I am a little re-consecrated; for me, the legislatures are four years old. If they last a little less, then, look, they last a little less; but from the beginning they say: "Well, this will last a year naked, I find it very painful. Maybe that explains why he didn't stop at all management things, because, of course, in a year it's already known that there isn't so much time to do things. It's not good, it's not good for the country, it's not good for the government, it's not good for the recovery of some things that seem to us to be fundamental, that are the stability and normality in the functioning of institutions. And, therefore, escorted, we held elections in 2010, 2012, 2015, 2017, and now they say that maybe at the end of 2018. Home, I was going to say, you can't stand it. Yeah, we'll take it, 'cause we've taken it all, right? But he's not good. And the initial intention should be to exhaust the legislature. I understand what you're saying, and you're right, that, listen, it's an exceptional situation. I can't say on the first day: "This will last as long as it is. But a little more than a year, if I could be, if I could just extend a little bit and do some work... I think that the previous legislature should serve us for a few things. I know we'll discuss a lot that didn't work out, but in any case, I do have to tell you that from our point of view, ever since Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Statute, the Constitution, the majorities needed to change it, it derailed – it derailed. It was then actually made the reference of '1 October. I would not want anyone to feel offended, but you must know that for us that was an illegal reference; that with all the benevolences of the world we could say that he considered it a legal reference and participated in it half. Therefore, we cannot give to that October 1st the democratic mandate value that you give, we believe, and we give it to respect and to try to hear the pain, the pains, better said, of everyone. And, therefore, let us not try to justify in that 1st of October decisions that we must take now, because I think we would do an evil service. He actually performed a police action that we considered from the first disproportionate moment, divided the society, generated an economic instability and the flight of some of his social – quite –, also the intervention of the Generality, and also the engagement of independent leaders. The balance of that political process can't be good for anyone. One may say: "Oh! It's just that the state had to refrain from doing anything. I will also say to him: as my knowledge of the things of the right is limited..., but the states tend to ensure that the law applies in the conjunction of the territory on which they have sovereignty and that, therefore, it was very difficult to think that the Spanish State, at once, would decide that the laws would not apply in a trotter of their territory; so that some of the consequences of that day were sabotaged. And then we had the opportunity to read reports and books, and even people with responsibilities at that time in the government or in the "sub-government of the Generality", in which it is clearly said that some of the consequences, if you don't want to – I don't want to go that far – but, ultimately, they were planned. So now we don't try to justify or legitimize decisions that should be taken from now on anyway. Jo, the truth is, I wouldn't. And then there's one thing we insist on: there's an indisputable majority of independent parliamentarians. There are three parliamentary groups which comprise seventy Members and Members, which in the previous parliamentary term were seventy-two, today are seventy. But there is not a majority of citizens in favour of the independence project, or how at least it could not be seen. Therefore, making a government approach based on the existence of a non-existent majority is, of course, a mistake, and more likely to give in fact that the opinion of those who have not yet pointed to it does not count very well. Therefore, the question is relatively simple, Mr. candidate: if you are elected, if you are elected president, will you want to contribute to maintaining this tension and dynamic, or would you instead try to help reduce it by seeking a solution? Because this is the subject, I believe, of this investiture; of his or her own. Will we continue in the ‘referendum' or ‘referendum', ‘independence or independence, or are we actually willing to talk? We obviously have a position that doesn't have to be shared and that even some people can claim minority status, etc.; we accept it. But, in any case, it is not what the majority of independenceists have expressed, and we do not believe that decisions of this scale, of this magnitude, can be taken with large numbers of escapees, much smaller than those indicated by our laws. We want political stability, we want institutional normality, we want to boost economic activity – then, if you give me time, I'll get into some program questions. You haven't talked about infrastructure, you've made our infrastructure portal sad, I hope there's time... There's a lot of things we need because the economy is shooting; it's getting better than some people would and maybe they would, and we don't have to be happy. We'll never know if we could go even better, if we didn't have the downsides we had, but our obligation is that it still works better and, therefore, do things. I was pleased that of the few concrete things that you mentioned following the Industrial Pact. We really need to get down. Now, I'll also tell you, if the legislature only lasts a year, we won't touch it. A serious industrial policy requires a continuity greater than one year. We want to ensure social progress, and we are aware that there is a resource problem here. I did not hear him say – perhaps it was not yet time – what his attitude will be before the negotiation of autonomous financing. The previous government decided that it did not go with them and that they did not participate; at last, that they followed the whole process from what they decided on the Balearic Islands. It's an option, I think it's wrong. It's going to go on again, and more so if there's a government in Catalonia, this discussion, and I'd like to know, if you're elected president, if you're committed to participating in and defending everyone's interests in a negotiation that's going to be complicated or I'd let it run. And, indeed, the money is not just financing; we will also have to review the taxes, and the expenses. Maybe we won't get to everything we want, and then we'll have to try to agree that it's the highest priority. He said: "No, there are some things that 155_has made difficult. Well, there are some things that are difficult for you, with or without 155. For example, we have already warned that there would be problems with deployment, and so some may be attributed to more remote causes, but others have to deal with our own function. And then we would like to make alliances to agree on policies and to agree on strands of greater self-government and better finance, if possible. Now, if the object is only the republic, then it is obvious that these alliances cannot be as transversal and wide as we might want. We have heard a speech that in some moments seemed to us a continuation of the previous legislature. We would not want you, if you went up to the presidency, to be the zero zone of our self-government. And depending on what we do, we take that risk. There's a couple of them that's already done saliva before the hour and all, huh? You know who I'm talking about. And, therefore, listen to me, I already understand that you have a difficulty that I do not want to diminish. You went to the elections and said, "If we win, you will return to Carles Puigdemont, we will restore the republic, the prisoners will leave the prison. Actually, they were political objectives but they did not depend on an election result, as has been seen. And so now you and the whole of society need to rethink who are the possible targets in this brand. Don't tell us there's a democratic mandate for the republic, which isn't there. Don't tell us they'll skip the law again, because that doesn't matter. Don't tell us that the illegal unilateral way still has to provide great moments or evenings of glory to Catalonia: it's not true. And we won't stop saying it, nor that it's preventive. Today it is about regaining control of the institutions of self-government, of referring consensus to Catalonia. And that means talking between the two sectors of the chamber, and talking to the first group of the chamber, which won more votes in elections, not trying not to see it; it's all these, it's a lot. Not to mention ours, the others and the others. I ask them to make this effort. You said you went to everyone, we only saw him talking for a while. But, I repeat, our judgment will in any case be produced from facts, from decisions, from gestures, a shot – if that's what it is – you become president. With the government of Spain we need to talk there, sense of doubt. You said "government to government, and we respect it," and we respect it. But we also say to him: if at some point it is considered that our contribution can be positive in this effort, I don't doubt it – I don't doubt it – because we have long ago, perhaps not so far right, or, finally, dare or say 'with you', we have asked for this dialog, and we are willing to contribute to it as much as possible. But there was a time when – and here I end – you said: "No, the program is the one in Turull. Well, you have introduced something that I quote literally: "a disruptive view of the autonomous regime. We've put ourselves to work a lot on the expression... Listen, in Jordi Turull's speech there was no disruptive view of the autonomous regime, and so here, or one thing or another. And it is legitimate, one thing or another; but we, in a disruptive view of the autonomous regime, certainly cannot collaborate; in an attempt that the public policies of our better country, sure. And, therefore – and I finish here – Mr. candidate, you will not have our support, but, in any case, you will have our wish that, if you are elected president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, you will get mixed up, for the sake of the country and thinking of the Catalans, who, as you know, are very diverse. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.15.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Now, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Mr Xavier Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.16.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, candidate Joaquim Torra, five months after the elections of 21 December, today I believe that most of Catalonia's citizens are fully aware of the possibility that we are actually going to an effective government, to the constitution of an effective government. We know that this is not going to be decided today, we'll see if it's actually decided on a few, because the incarnation of what we are carrying months from now, which is the constitution of a government, means something as important as the recovery of our institutions in the hands of the Catalans and Catalans. It's today or even today – this will be decided by the companies and companies of the CUP, they will already explain it to us; I don't think they'll explain it to us today, I suppose it'll be later –, it could have been perfectly last week, when we dedicated a very passionate session to discussing a law, a modification of the Law of Presidency, of which today nobody is remembered, absolutely nobody. And, in fact, at that very moment it was already said by some of the speakers who presented and defended the modification of the Law of Presidency, that that would serve no purpose. Well, then, we could have done it last week, not today. We could have done it a long time ago, too, because, it's true, we could have done it a long time ago if there wasn't a judicial intervention that led to the unjust completion of candidates in prison at the midpoint of an investiture. And it is also absolutely certain that these five months are not only held to sustain a report, that long before it could have gone to the recovery of our institutions, and I believe that many of the views of the same independent majority so called it. But now there's this real possibility that our institutions are recovering from the shape of a government. The question that is also asked today by the majority of Catalans and Catalans is no longer just whether there will be government or whether there will be elections – this will be decided, or not, by the people of the CUP – but what is asked is another question that is absolutely key in the times that we are currently living: will it be a good government? Why, beyond the account of everything that's happened, beyond the accounts of pain, beyond investigations and special warrants to investigate 155, is there a question that is key: will it be a good government? Are you sure you're going to take him where there's darkness? Will this government certainly carry where there is darkness? Are you strong enough to weaken them? Answers at a time of mass questions? For many epics that follow speeches, answered at a time of mass questions? And in this speech that you have made, today, you leave us many questions. I don't know if you'll be able to answer them in the future, but we've had a lot of questions today. He spoke, I think..., he made a good speech... – I don't know how he qualified it, I don't know whether it was excellent or magnificent or very magnificent – a good speech for Carles Puigdemont. So, I have no doubt. I think it was a good speech, to try to convince the people of the UPC that the vote. I don't think there's been a good speech around the country. I'm telling you, too, huh? And I think so: I don't think you made a speech for Carles Puigdemont or made a speech for the CUP, I think you did, the speech you made. I think it's written, that I recognize, that's the other thing I think is that what you believe is not the best for the country as a whole. Because we don't know many things, and it's essential to know them, in this government. We don't know if it's going to be the government of symbolism, like, ya, the ultra plus of the process. Why when a government is presented with questions such as: "Will a new office of the Presidency be occupied? If you can be elected President of the Generality, then can the great debate be whether or not you occupy the office of President? There are important elements, in that despatx there is the table of Lluís Companies. Will you join the table of Lluís Companies or leave it empty? We don't know if you're going to be either... not to mention, we don't know if you're going to be the president of your government or the president of a government where the councillors and councillors have already taken him. We've known the names of the counselors and counselors long before you've been invested and long before you've been appointed. It's a tradition, yeah, huh? To the first Puigdemont government, the councillors and councillors were selected by Mr. Mas. It seems that if there is Joaquim Toura government he will have sorted it Puigdemont. So, are you going to be president of this government or are you going to be president of Puigdemont? Nor do I know..., not to know, we do not know if you – and now I am talking about all this independenceist majority, I think not of the CUP, but of the independenceist majority where the CUP is included –, we do not know..., we know that they have discussed a lot about which advisers or advisers would bring different areas. What's left of each escú? They have debated with the same intensity... – exactly with the same, it would be better if it was superior, but – with the same intensity what must be the strategy to get the country out of the current situation? I don't think so. It's more, can you say at these times that the Republican Left of Catalonia, that Together for Catalonia, that the PDECAT and the CUP want the same? Not if they have the same strategy, do they want the same strategy? I don't think so. They've had five months, huh? , to discuss this; not to discuss other things, to discuss this. I think they haven't done their dues, and it's important, because the country is in an atzucac and demands a clear strategy. Not to know, either, with these big questions left to us, which are decisive, I believe, also by the conjunction of the citizenry in Catalonia..., not to know, we do not know if we are electing a president for a legislature or a provisional president. Well, it seems that yes, they have told us that you will be an interim president. He did not tell us provisional until how long, nor why it was to be provisional, nor why it could not complete the entire legislature. I believe that if you say that you will be an interim president of an interim government you should explain, as an interim, for what interim reason. And if he says it's temporary and he says it before he gets invested, he should tell us for how long. I don't think we have to wait for Mr Puigdemont's interview, from La Stampa, who'll be out tomorrow, who'll tell us it's for five months. [[Greetings.]] I don't think we have to wait for this, because here is the sovereignship of the people of Catalonia and here is where we decide whether you are president or not. And why? Why only five months? Why in October's new election? What's the motive? They make them now, don't they? What's the reason that... Five months for this government? In fact, there are many things we don't know, but what we do know is that you spoke yesterday, and I agree, about the need to form a strong government, because the situation required a strong government. But a government where you say it's interest, that it's temporary, that it hasn't sorted out either the councillors or the councillors, and that the main debate can be where it's theirs, whose size, the president of the government..., sorry, it's not a strong government, it's a weak government; a government that says it's only going to last five months, it's still..., weaker, impossible. Therefore, it is not the Government, indeed, that the country needs at this time. And I'm saying that with what you have already proposed, not what you will do, but with what you have already proposed. It all points out that this government is a government that the expiration date already had it before it was born, a government expired before it was born, and I say it with the words and with what you said here today. We have become accustomed to electing presidents who have not been presented with such. We are accustomed to elect presidents who have not been nominated to be presidents of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which, moreover, probably – I don't know, but I think I can say –, I don't even know that they are running candidates for the presidency of Catalonia, not at the time of running for election, but probably a week ago or maybe three or four days ago. Therefore, presidents who did not present themselves to be presidents, who did not know that they would be presidents and who, at the same time, produce all this, obviously, are unknown to most of the people of Catalonia. And before that, before this disconnection, the first question we have to ask ourselves before this situation is: why do you have to be president of the Generality of Catalonia? Why does it have to be? Beyond the decision not of an electoral contest, not of a party, I don't know whether or not of a parliamentary group, but of the decision, in any case, of Mr Carles Puigdemont. Perhaps he is the best candidate for Puigdemont, since he has decided that you are present in this chamber today, but here, before the representation of the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, and let us never deny what we have defended..., before the representation of the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia is not right. Whether Mr. Carles Puigdemont has sorted it out or not is the problem of Mr. Carles Puigdemont and of you and who you are listening to Mr. Carles Puigdemont. It is not jutja this, it is not jutja the decision of Puigdemont, but what is jutja is the decision, effectively, that you, even though you may be a stranger, follow the president of all Catalans and Catalans, the one hundred and thirty-one president of the Generality of Catalonia, the one who should occupy the table of Lluís Companies – the one who should occupy the table of Lluís Companies. And, in this sense, in this value that we have to make from this Parliament, for us, there are three elements that are absolutely claus. First, yesterday you apologized. I had to apologize for some girl expressions in 2012 that I have to say, like catalá, to me ashamed of – I have to say, to me, like catalá, ashamed of me. I believe that these excuses that you made yesterday could be a step, above all, for millions of Catalans – millions of Catalans – who could feel absolutely excluded from their proposal for the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia. But yesterday..., but here all the important are not these six tweets published in 2012..., which, moreover, you yourself deleted and then apologized, but here is what is really important is what the candidate for the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia thinks in relation to what he is saying in those tweets and in relation to all the texts... – they have already told him that they are preparing a hemeroteca, they must be investigating him, throughout the legislature, the Inés Arrimadas..., look at how... now he is here, saying... –, but what the candidate for the Generality of Catalonia thinks about an absolutely key issue for us. Mr Joaquim Torra, what do you think of the Spaniards? Not what he thinks of a state, not what he thinks of a government and who supports it, but what he thinks of Spaniards and Spaniards. Because this is absolutely key, and it is in terms of the fact that we cannot have a presidency of the Generality that expresses what was in those tweets or that expresses what was in many of these writings that have quoted it. It's in terms... because when we know what he thinks of Spaniards and Spaniards, we'll know what he thinks of Catalonia. We'll know what you think of this 70_percent Catalan and Catalan that with different intensity..., can be different than intensity, but 70_percent Catalan and Catalan feel Spanish and Spanish. When you explain what you think as a candidate for the presidency of the Spanish and Spanish Generalities we will also know what you actually think of Catalonia. Because then we'll know if you understand Catalonia. And that's the key, huh? , absolutely, it is key to aspire to the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia. I can tell you the truth, if I've done these tweets I haven't run for President of the Catalonian Government, I've never run. I never had to get a tweet out of this guy. But it is absolutely essential to know whether the candidate who is presented here today to the Presidency of the Government of Catalonia understands what Catalonia is. Because Catalonia is an absolutely mixed country in all its globality. And if you understand, if the presidential candidate understands, as Abraham Lincoln said, that a country divides against itself cannot stand – a country divides against itself cannot stand. 70_percent of Catalans and Catalans feel Spanish– 70_per_cent. That... I think it's absolutely essential to hear this. You said..., you didn't say the date, but you said that the birth is a daily plebiscite – Renan. And I think it's true: the birth is a daily plebiscite. I think you have to explain if you want to be president of all Catalans and Catalans and accept the diversity of our people, because, if not, you will lose this plebiscite. And you've got to stop legitimizing yourself, too. I'm having a hard time. They cannot go on saying: "If everything..., if the birth is a daily plebiscite... It is true, on the 21st of December 155 was defeated electorally. The DUI did not have a referendum for the majority of the people of Catalonia. I stop doing political action that doesn't respect the majority of the people of Catalonia, because a country divided against itself can't keep up. According to the key element, for us, in this investiture: you are an option of legitimist closure of independence or an opening at the joint venture of society, as you have said. You didn't stop saying you had to open the base. Home..., the same term "example the base I think is not open. Simply put, it's explaining to the rest that they have to fuck him between their base, that it's a total disrespect. But well, we accept octopus as a pet, and that ejaculating the base is something that means really opening up a political project. Are you really for the dialog, for the cross-cutting and for the construction of Catalonia? Or are they for building their legitimacy, their legitimacy? Because, of course, I have the clearest proposal for government that I have ever heard of, to you, is a commission on 155. I've also devoted myself to investigation, you've devoted yourself to investigation, we're passionate about investigation, but politics is also something else. Politics is not just investigating what may have happened, but overcoming it. What we want is to get over 155, not go recreation in all this. I was delighted that you said, for example, that they wanted to sort out a commission on inequality – I was delighted. 40 percent of Catalans and Catalans at these times live in worse conditions than their parents. I think it's a country issue; absolutely country, too. You in this element of whether you want to build a legitimacy or you want to build a country... you won the elections of 21st December, no doubt. And, in fact, you'll see if the CUP... you'll see if you'll see, whether they won them or not. This will be decided by the CUP, whether they won or not they actually won those elections of 21 December. No doubt they won them. Nor is there any doubt, and I can hardly tell them - with this force, that, as much as they won the elections, they failed strategically. And that's the big problem we're going through right now. The problem, indeed, the Catalan problem remains open, but its solutions – its solutions – are not the solutions of the future, they are the solutions that have already remained in a past. It's closed, you can admit it or not, it's closed a whole cycle of Catalonia's political history. Because all that they said they would do... – the splits, the structures of the state, all the countries of the world that were waiting with candles to recognize the DUI – all that they said they would do was do it and went the other way around what they had said. Do not explain to us now nine proposals, without explaining to us how, if they are the same methods that have already failed. Don't worry, politics isn't just legitimism, it's not just research and recreation. Indeed, politics is like making our dreams possible by building them, entwining them with reality, not elidating, not against reality. That's not politics, that's legitimacy, anyway, and I think it's puigdemontism right now. Because, moreover, legitimacy has passed from "or referring or referring to" or Puigdemont or Puigdemont. And even all the CUP companies bought it there: "or Puigdemont or Puigdemont. Then he went to: « Puigdemont or what Puigdemont says. And finally, we went to "what Puigdemont says to you. All the historical continuity brings us here. And this historical continuity is the clearest explanation of the reduction of a project that was flying from country to person. It is the clearest explanation of what legitimism is, the weak, when the country is abandoned and is concentrated in the person. And when they cling to legitimacy, it's simply because they don't have a proposal for the future. Catalonia needs to look at the future and not just the past. And I'm sorry, Mr. Sabria spoke of resistance, resistance, resistance. It needs Catalonia, once in a while, to stop resisting to start building and winning. There's no chance of recreating yourself in legitimism. This is neither Puigdemont, Puigdemont or Puigdemont, nor what Puigdemont says! He's from Catalonia and the Catalans – from Catalonia and the Catalans! Third element: Will you form a government? With which policies? We'd love to know. Will it be the policies of Elsa Artadi, Mas-Colell or Teresa Jordà? Because I think they speak differently, I think they think differently and I think they want to apply different policies. Do they make policies with the Grossa or with a progressive and equitable taxation that will bring us to European standards? Are you in favour of TTIP or against TTIP? Could you answer that right now, here, as a candidate for the presidency of the Government of Catalonia? Could you come out here and say: 'Are we in favour of the TTIP or 'against the TTIP? Can't you tell? Can you tell if they're doing a progressive tax or not? Can you tell if they'll push taxes or keep taxes or lower them? Can you tell? Because it's important. Can you say what you can say? Because... I don't know, or they can, for example, come here and explain to us that they defend the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia and go running, in Madrid, at the Congress, to approve a resolution to make the denunciations easier with the lords of Ciutadans and the PP. And then they defend Spanish sobriety, I guess, huh? , supposing, subordinate to that of Catalonia. Can you explain what your policy will be in all these things? Because, while we're talking about it all being a matter of legitimacy, denunciation, investigation, we're not discussing, for example, the debate on finance. I didn't hear him say anything about whether they wanted a Catalan herd... at least before they said they wanted a Catalan herd. We want a Catalan herd. Do you want a Catalan herd? Are you the same? Clearly, it's true, if the government has to be in five months, it can't get any better. The need for an urgent energy transition plan. It's true that you... I recognize that, Mrs. Arrimadas here got excited and said, "You didn't say anything. Home, a mike did say something about energy, something said. I recognize him that you spoke of it, but he spoke of it a little. Or, we urgently need an energy transition plan in this country. There's been no talk of a national housing pact. At these times, I don't know how many people, I hope there are thousands and hundreds of thousands, for the right to housing in Barcelona. I saw the Republican Left spokesman greeted them. It would be good if, in addition to saluting them, there are no sub-loofs of habitating from the council that still dominate you. [[Some applause.]] Will the National Industry Pact be completed or not? Will the guarantee income be deployed in a truly fair way yes or no? Will we work on a new big deal based on the justice of genera yes or no? They're asking me what I think they're absolutely claus. Miri, this country needs to move forward, it needs to move forward. We need to move forward with society and with the country; we need not to be trapped in temporaryity. They can't explain to us that a provisional government, which you say is provisional, is a strong government. Next, they can't explain this to us. Yes, you did make me think so, but it'll be very difficult to explain. You'll have to go looking for Renan and further back, to find an appointment that allows you to explain why a five-month government makes a country stronger when the provisionality government is announced at first. Because, besides, a tendency to think... There is a phrase that you say a lot, in which I agree, that it is: "Don't make us through the ballot boxes. Yes, but one thing is that they don't do us through the ballot boxes and the other that when we don't have a solution at our head we're going to explain that everything is solved with the ballot boxes. I think they're different. I mean, you can't go on election without giving a real answer how we're gonna get out of this situation. We need to move forward with society, to give it, out of legitimacy, out of provisionality and out of symbolism. For us to move forward means three things: it means moving forward in the self-government and recognition of Catalonia to overcome – we do believe – the autonomous state. But not considering what was the main longing in relation to Catalonia, in its construction, the main longing and the conquest of millions of Catalans in our past, which is the conquest of self-government, not considering this as a less desirable thing, as at sea autonomy. I have seen many very slow speeches, speeches in which it seemed that everything is solved with quick solutions. You said: "Life. There was one person, Antonio Gramsci, who when he was in prison wrote and said - he wrote to his son -: "Think always in time, in time that is the synonym of life. And I think that many times, you, what you've done is eliminate time for a country, throw for the right without finding real solutions. First, advance into self-government without undermining it. We're just gigglers, they can only be gigglers because we know that we'll be crawling into the spaces of all those who've preceded us. It's just giggles like that. We are not lacking in the great battles and the great conquests of the past. I'm tired of feeling that Catalonia's self-government is something that can be renounced, that's the same. I don't know where the joy of insulting the struggles of all our forefathers to absolve these institutions has come from. I don't know where they got it. Social progress. First agreement: moving forward in self-government. To advance socially and nationally, knowing that no such thing can be sacrificed to the altar of incomplete promises, in the cemetery of true myths. You – and you told them before – what politics will you do? Will they do the policy of Mr. Antoni Castellà? Will they push taxes or lower taxes? What policies will you do? This is absolutely important. But what you've done so far I can explain, because you can sound very good the words and the great headlines. I can explain. You said it had to be done, that there was no... And it is a phrase I share: "There is no national emancipation if there is no social emancipation. There is no social emancipation if there is no national emancipation. One thing without the other does not exist. Let's see how some of the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia that consolidated 2,300_million retails were approved. But it's the same, because you'll say you were the most social assumptions in history. They lie, but they'll say it. I won't say it. Some assumptions that some of them voted for, which was the UPC, said were antisocial assumptions. I didn't say it, we didn't say it. Companions and Companions of the CUP said so. They said: "They are antisocial assumptions. And they voted for them. And when they voted that they sacrificed social rights and the social race in the national arena. We'll never do that. We are the guarantee that a country is not building without its people or leaving its people behind, and that it is not building any idea of Catalonia thinking that this can explain the rights of Catalans and Catalans. Therefore, according to this: he has only freed it if they are civil liberties or social freedoms. Thirdly, to move forward is to make us strong with the country, from the transversality that makes us strong. The transversality makes us populous. I heard the Republican Left spokesman speak another time of a people's sun. A town_sol conformed to different identities. Are we a people's sun or are we not a people's sun, Mr. Quim Torra? And it is very important that the candidate for the Government of Catalonia, who is fighting for democracy every time more worthy of his name, responds to the reaction against rights and freedoms. Therefore, three great commitments: to advance in the self-government and recognition of Catalonia; to advance socially and nationally never sacrificing one thing for the other; to advance from cross-cutting to build more and better democracy, to build more and better rights, to build more and better freedoms. And we don't believe – and I ended up – that you and your government represent this. We don't think it's a good government. Beyond his government, beyond symbols and legitimacy, we commit ourselves and continue to commit ourselves to the real country. And we commit ourselves and we continue to commit ourselves to everyone who fulfills these same commitments, which we will find. The spokesman for the Republican Left of Catalonia said – it seems to me that he has addressed us – he told us that he was expecting us. No, you're not wrong. It's us waiting for you, which is very different. [[Some applause.]] We don't think he's going to be a good government. Let's hope they make government, but we don't think it's going to be a good government. Now, we do believe in this country, and we believe in this country and its people. I grow deeply in this country and its people, in all their plurality. In the cab driver who had explained to me, crying, the rage he felt for repression, he also had serious problems because public sanitation put him away. We believe in the young man who left, those who invited them to make coffee in London, and those who stayed, because the young people continue to draw the future, by luck, by luck continue to draw the future of this country. We believe deeply in the gifts that have been said wrong. That's life. That's life! We believe deeply in the gifts that have been said wrong. In the opinions and in the avies that are struggling for our future. In workers and workers looking for better living conditions for them and for everyone. We believe deeply in those who protest because unjustly they do not get guaranteed income while here many fill their mouths with empty words. We believe and believe in all those who rise every morning in this country and the big fan. We don't believe in this government you're going to do, but we believe a lot in this country and its people. Because we are convinced that this country and its people will be much bigger than this government. It will be with them and with them that we compromise. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.17.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. Mr Carles Riera, spokesman for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, continues to speak for a period of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.18.0	Thank you, President. More than 2 million people on October 1st will interpose their bodies between the police and the Civil Guard, and democracy and the republic. And today it seems that Together for Catalonia and Esquerra they want to put, between the dignity of this people and its legitimate republic, and the repression of the State, an autonomy that complies with the Constitution, the courts, the IBEX 35 and the State – is that right? – in order to reduce the conflict, to recover institutions that will remain involved and to develop public policies that continue to comfort the markets more than the working class? We do not forget it and we do not deceive ourselves: if today we are before the fourth candidate it is because neither Juntes for Catalonia nor Esquerra wanted to disobey the State to invest Carles Puigdemont, nor for any other act of defense of the sovereignty of this Parliament. Today a candidacy is presented for the State to accept it and the Borbó to label it an act of vassallage that goes in the opposite direction of '1 of October. On 1 October and 3 October, in a democratic mobilization without precedents in Europe, a large part of the people of Catalonia fought and won – and won – hegemony and control of the territory – I subraised – to the State, and I did so in a non-violent manner, in spite of police violence. All conditions were given to obey the popular mandate and advance in the construction of a republic that meant a great step forward in terms of democratic progress and civil and political rights for everyone, absolutely for everyone, for independenceists and for non-independenceists. Despite the declaration of independence of October 27th, October 10th and October 28th, the majority of the sovereignist and his government, represented there for Junts for the Yes, and today for Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra, did not want to support the democratic debate with the State and they started the withdrawal, a withdrawal today closed in the proposal to resume a new autonomous cycle. October 1st and October 27th will have hard repressive consequences, certainly, in addition to the derivatives of September 20th. The people who today are in prison, exile or prosecuted for those acts have taken a great deal of sacrifice, and today, effectively, we can't spend a thousand miles of the motius and objects for which they have taken it. You know as well as we do that only with disobedience and unilaterality will we manage the effectiveness of the republic. You know perfectly well. We don't find anything out about them again. And today they want to convince us that managing autonomy, an interventional autonomy, is creating the conditions for democratic rupture with the State? Who do you want to fool if you can't believe yourself? Do they really believe that now the new full road to materialize the republic passes, paradoxically, into an exercise of political juggling without precedents, to end following the Constitution, the Spanish Government and the courts of the State, the very ones that repress independence, freedom of expression and apply patriarchal and masculist justice in the case of La Manada? They know that this is impossible, and that says something that they know is not true, above all, above all, is self-deceived. Moreover, they propose to us a program of government of neoliberal nature that, in order to finish its adoption, they will have to implement with the finances intervened and in a more than likely international scene of economic crisis and will finance of the global capitalism that condemns us to precariousness, a precariousness that affects especially the women, to under-rate it. So they want to expand the base of independence? With public policies that reproduce the structural inequalities of our society, which certainly do break it? Do they really want to build a state without real sovereignty, without public structures and solids that guarantees democratic control of the country's resources and basic services and puts them at the service of the people and not of the interests of global capitalism that, with its institutions of the troika in the head and its big corporations, we have already seen, have we ever found that they have not given or supported our self-determination? We effectively see a change in the cycle of political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State, motivated primarily, effectively, by the violence and repression of the Spanish State over the independence movement, by the confirmed absence of a political dialogue in the Spanish State in order to bring about a democratic solution to the conflict, which recognizes, however, the right to self-determination of Catalonia; also a change in the cycle marked by the absence of initiatives to propitiate this dialogue on self-determination on the part of most international actors, as well as the outcome of the process of independence from law to law. But we have also come to an inescapable cycle change for another fundamental factor: for the decision of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra to abandon the path of disobedience and unilaterality, if not until the present moment, we hope that they will be rectified. October 1st, October 3rd and November 8th, they do not only overflow the State, but they are moments of popular self-organisation and civil disobedience which have created an international democratic challenge and which also go beyond the conjunction of the Catalan political actors, questioning even the same hegemony, the same power relations in themselves of independence. Together for the Yes and his government do not support this dynamic from October 28th and here, to us, to the CUP, to the CUP - Constituent cry, also it is up to us to make self-criticism. Of course, it does; it does not mean that, despite the fact that we have won and resources, we have not always articulated the best response in the moments, in the political events experienced. For this reason, we do not have to do virtues of learning and we propose today a mobilising and civil disobedience strategy that does not go to the rhythm of Parliament, but that it is the one that marks the rhythm of institutions. Neither Juntes per el Si nor his government nor Juntes per Catalunya and Esquerra have existed – nor do we see that there are – plans and consistent measures to make the republic effective. We shall remain faithful to the mandate of '1 October and 3 October. If you want to go back there, you'll find us, sense of doubt. This confirmation of the cycle change puts the republic movement ahead of the democratic hold of power. While having a parliamentary majority, a mobilising hegemony and the endorsement of the October 1 referendum, independence certainly has not been able to materialise the republic and make it effective in terms of real control of the territory. Such a time has not been, only, a problem of lack of capacity, but also of lack of real will on the part of hegemonic sovereignism, which perhaps did not want to accede to independence radically modifying the internal relations of power and social, economic and political hegemony in the yes of Catalonia, which also see threats for October 1 and October 3 through a democratic and popular revolt. How, therefore, will we materialize politically and institutionally this popular democratic revolt – the only way, I repeat, the only real way to independence – that by means of effective self-determination removed the 78th rule and established a republic in Catalonia in the wake of a Spanish state and a European Union in full conservative and demophobic drift? This is a strategic priority debate that is urgent for the various actors of the republic movement, and we assume it. In the framework of this debate, we believe that the materialization of the republic will be produced by the articulation of a set of political lines that allow us to win the State the dispute for power and consolidate the hegemony of the republic movement and the sovereigns in the territory. These lines contain anti-repressive action, international, institutional and mobilization, with non-violent civil disobedience as well as the method of speech. We will have an extended hand – we will have an extended hand – to move forward together in mobilization, in international action and in anti-repressive action, as well as in the creation of republican institutionality, of republican counter-power, but the punch closed if you fall for an autonomous management legislature. The repressive scenario, which can acquire a long recurs and a broad abst and which makes the anti-repressive struggle a new challenge for the republican movement, is a fundamental challenge, a challenge that puts the struggle in the center both nationally and internationally for human, civil and political rights to the Catalan countries and to the Spanish State. Prisoners and prisoners, exiles and exiles, everyone who suffers from repression, repression of the State, certainly deserves it; their freedom demands it and forces us to do so. In this new framework, the activities of Parliament and the Government of Catalonia will remain very limited and in a certain temporary situation for what it does to its political capacity and for what it does to its sovereignty. The struggle for the republic must return to gravitate on popular movement and non-violent civil disobedience. The social movement, with full autonomy in relation to parties and institutions, will once again have a key and protagonist role in generating a new cycle of mobilizations and struggle in public space and municipalities so as to provoke a new political scene that newly surpasses institutions and leads them to new possibilities of institutional disobedience and unilateral acts of sovereignty. The first acts of sovereignty, indeed, should be the updating and application of all the laws and decrees challenged by the Constitutional Court; an assembly of electors could be the initiator of a new alternative institutionality of the republic that together with civil mobilization could reinforce the dynamic removed from the 78th rule and constitute the republic in the way of making it effective; in a_marc of generation of counter-power, democratic rupture with the State, the process constitutes and a referendum moment of the new republican constitution, in this legislature, emerges strategic challenges. Promoting and legislating republican structures through public ownership of resources and basic services of strategic infrastructures would be another necessary step to materialize and defend sovereignities through public banking; public ownership of the pool of health and educational resources, providing us with public services capable of sustaining life and not translating responsibility for healing tasks, aging and dependence only on women; public management of energy and water sub-governments; a way that the public school – I assume we will agree – and the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media have demonstrated resilience and effectiveness prior to the date of 155; and that the public school – i.e., assuming that we agree – and that the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media has been able to establish a solid state of control. This path is one of the answers that the CUP - Creet Constituent already gives to the debate on the grip of republican power: to build public sovereignties from now on, democratic and serving society and not in private hands without fidelity to the country – we remind them that the majority of private operators who manage public services have changed from their own, therefore effectively, and not in private hands without loyalty to the country, that they have the job over the quality and universality of the service to the community and facilitate its corruption. To legislate and apply public policies for the working class will also be a question of social justice and an obvious guarantee to increase social support for independence and the republic. Today, the dismissal of the 78th rule and the constitution of the republic in Catalonia is the best way to open the doors to the opportunity of a democratic change in favor of the rights and emancipatory objectives, of the historical objectives of the working class in our home. Pursuing reforms in the autonomic mark will only involve renunciations and frustrations – we have much experience in the proposed legislature – as the Constitutional Court has continuously demonstrated to us, suspending and nullifying much of the redistributive initiatives and promotion of equality promoted by the Catalan Parliament. According to our compromise, and finally, inescapable with the republic and with our principles of building it from below, in the proper hours, certainly our movement will decide democratically and assembly our position before its investment proposal. Whatever the option is, it will be an option for independence and for the republic. The CUP - Creed Constituent, as we have said repeatedly, and today we will repeat it, is ready – that everyone listens to it and everyone takes good note – to assume all – and repeat it: all – and with all consequences the institutional responsibilities in case of democratic and effective break with the State and in case of strict obedience to the popular mandate of '1 October at this new stage. If, however, man enters an autonomous cycle, the Constituent CUP - Creed will not be able to collaborate. We will work, yes, always, in any of the cases, within and outside the institutions, to generate a new cycle of the independence movement that reformulates and extensifies alliances and complicitys, building republican popular unity, so that we can come to open a new cycle of self-determination and rupturism in Catalonia and in the conjunction of the Catalan Countries and build a republic that restores to the working class, the majority to our birth, its social and civil rights maintained for capital and its political power maintained for the State and for autonomy, on the way to a socialist, ecological and feminist society. Look at the republic!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.19.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. This is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, of Mr Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.20.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Torra, if you are here today to present your candidacy for the presidency of the Generalitat, it is because Spain is a democracy. Mr. Torra, if next Monday, or today, you are invested president of the Generalitat, even being separatist, it will be because Spain is a democracy. And, moreover, as Spain is a democracy, Mr Torra, if at some point you have the temptation to move from words to facts, acting outside the law, trampling on the rights of Catalans that we do not think like you, Spanish democracy will respond as it has done with those who have tried. This is democracy. With today's debate we are expected to conclude an eight-month period that has led Catalonia to suffer the greatest institutional crisis in the past forty years; where, because of the reckless attitude of the separatist parties, self-government has been normally limited in its development. We have ended a period of time, unfortunately, after listening to Mr Torra, that I have the conviction that we cannot put forward, that we are not going to put an end to that stage, since his words today, as well as his affirmations in the most recent past, do not give us any hope. Mr. Torra, your speech this morning has been simply incendiary. He has sought constant provocation towards that part of the population that does not think like you, turning more than half the Catalans into invisible and ignoring the problems and priorities of most men and women in this land. You, today, have shown that you are seeking to remain settled in the conflict. To be honest, I must tell you that I do not believe that you are here today on your own merits, Mr Torra, or that you represent that president who needs Catalonia to look to the future with some hope. After listening to you this morning, we are not able to see in you that leader who must have as a priority the work of sewing the social fracture that has caused the process during all this time, of restoring calm and confidence to the whole of Catalan society and turning into reality the desire of the majority, a desire to move on to this grey stage to which independence has dragged us to the whole of society. Mr Torra, I suppose you want the Members of the opposition, the institutions, Catalan society and also Spanish society to have the institutional respect that a President of the Generalitat deserves, right? So, my question, Mr Torra, is: how do you intend to receive that recognition, that institutional respect, if you yourself claim that the legitimate president is another person? Mr. Torra, how do you expect us to take this seriously when you're just disallowing yourself? And, saying all this, Mr. Torra, the question, the important question, is: Mr. Torra, how do you see yourself? What does it mean that you are an interim president? But what kind of joke is that? Do you not believe that institutional discredit has already reached its peak, the discrediting of the presence of the institution of the Presidency of the Generalitat, so that now, Mr. Torra, you may come to us on an interim basis? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Torra's candidacy for us today is an option that gives us great concern for the Group of the People's Party. We are facing a candidate with a speech that is gasoline to extinguish the fire and whose main asset has been radicality and insult for the simple fact of having Spanish nationality or feeling Catalan and Spanish, as well as excesses in their ways and in their forms. Excesses, on the other hand, intolerable and unacceptable in someone who should aspire to rule for all Catalans. Your speech shows, Mr Torra, that you do not know Catalonia, you only know yourself and those who think like you. That is why, Mr Torra, I say to you very clearly that we have no hope that your appointment will be the solution to the problems we are experiencing right now; on the contrary, we believe that they will help to conquer those in time, because never – I repeat, never – radicalism has been the remedy or the solution to the problems. Today you have described to us very slightly a relationship of measures of your future government; as you have said – and I quote textual words – "of maximum radicality. Measures you intend to implement if you receive the confidence of this chamber. Mr Torra, one question: who will implement these measures? Do you or Mr Puigdemont, whom you yourself call the legitimate president? Mr. Torra, who will decide this year's Sant Jordi creus? Do you or, as we have already known today, will the government you call ‘ in exile? ' Catalonia, until not many years ago, was an economic leader, no longer only at the national level, but also at the international level. The government's interlocutor, Mr Torra, before the European institutions, who will it be? Do you or the president who calls it legitimate? In the last parliamentary term, we experienced episodes more typical of a series of fiction than of a serious country; a government and a president installed in a parallel reality, with episodes such as the proclamation of a supposed republic that lasted forty seconds, while millions of Catalans suffered in a climate of legal, institutional and social insecurity that had caused and that had created serious damage to general confidence and the economy in particular. Does it seem to you balanced, Mr Torra, and adjusted to reality to say, as you did yesterday, already as a candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat, that a humanitarian crisis is being experienced in Catalonia because of the Government of Spain? Do you really believe that? Please stop flaunting and provoking hatred and at the same time insulting the people who are, regrettably, truly suffering this tragedy. Since my political formation, we want to invite it to reflection, to serenity. At the moment you have two paths, you have two paths, two directions to choose: either you bet on respect for the plurality of Catalan society with a loyal behavior to the Statute and the Constitution, which are our norms of coexistence, or you bet on remaining installed in the conflict, in the challenge, in the division, with the consequences that this means for all. Depending on what your answer is, we will really know who you intend to represent: either you represent all Catalans, or you confirm your role as Mr.Carles Puigdemont's sole heir, showing that you will hold the presidency not because you are the most capable, but because you are the most radical and, above all, the most obedient. Unfortunately, your speech this morning has already made it clear that your bet is the second. And today we would like to be here to talk about the present and, above all, the future. However, we would fall into a grave error if we were to forget the most recent past. What has happened so far must possibly serve us all in order not to fall into the same mistakes that have brought us to this situation. Today, Mr Torra, you, this morning, have offered dialogue to the Government of Spain, dialogue without conditions. Okay. But in democracy there has to be one condition: respect for the rules of play, respect for the Statute and the Constitution. And the most important question that I want to ask you today and that in the reply I ask you that if you want to answer me nothing more, but this yes, is: Mr. Torra, are you willing to accept those rules? Are you willing to accept the rules of coexistence that mark the Statute of Catalonia and the Spanish Constitution? Simply answer ‘yes or' no. Because the excess, as I said to you, the unilaterality, the conviction on the part of you to believe is above good and evil, to be convinced that you do not have to account for anything or anyone, to believe that the end justifies the means, is an episode that we cannot again suffer the Catalans. I told them we already know how the candidate thinks. Yesterday I asked him to apologize to all Catalans who feel Catalan and Spanish and to the rest of the country for their insults and disqualifications. Your answer on TV3 stayed half way; to apologize for whether someone has felt offended by your words, as you did yesterday, is almost worse than not saying anything. Lord Torra, we did not ask him to apologize for having molested someone: we asked him to apologize for writing and thinking such barbarities. What really worries us is that Catalonia can have a president, that it can have someone who is able to write that « shame is a word that the Spaniards have for centuries abandoned from their dictionary, or that the Spaniards only know how to spoil. This, Mr Torra, is precisely what we are talking about. Do you really continue to think that ‘ shame' is a word that the Spaniards have been removing from our dictionary for centuries? Do you continue to truly believe that the Spanish only know how to spoil? Unfortunately for the majority of Catalans, with their investiture we have possibly come out of the fire to fall into the flames: we have moved from a separatist president like Carles Puigdemont to a possible anti-Spanish president like you, Mr Torra. With you, radical independence has doubled the bet. In the two later years we are listening as some who were against the application of Article 155 by September because it was to kill mosquitoes at canonades and then, in October, to defend it vigorously, but only to call an immediate election, now ask to maintain the measure, ask to maintain Article 155. Certainly, others in September thought the same as October, and now, May, we think the same as last September and last October, and that is why we are very clear. Well, I'd like to remind the master of the demagogue that today's investiture, ladies and gentlemen, is the victory of the state of law and the government of Spain. Mr. Torra, if he is finally invested, today or the next day, president will be an autonomous president, who will promise or swear the Statute of Catalonia and the Spanish Constitution, even though it is for legal empire. Even though I don't believe it or the same candidate, those who were betting for the breakup are the confirmation of the success and strength of this great country that is Spain. There is no republic here in Catalonia, there are no laws of disconnection, there are no laws of assembly. Here is a democracy that guarantees the rights of all Catalans: of those who feel deeply Catalan is our way of feeling Spanish, and also of those who only feel in Catalan. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not know whether or not Mr. Torra will finally be invested as President of the Generality. If it is finally, we would like you to have the intelligence and, above all, the generosity to hear that Catalans are much more than members of the Cultural Organization or the Catalan National Assembly. Catalonia is all that we were born here, and so are those men and women who came from other lands of Spain to work and create a future. And today we can also say that Catalonia is all those who have come from other countries and carry years between us accepting our traditions and our values as their own. We all deserve exactly the same consideration and respect from the Government of Catalonia. I have told you – and I am now finishing my speech – at the beginning of my speech that we are concerned about what we have read, what we have seen and, above all, what we have heard today from your words; in a very special way, what you think of those who do not think like you or feel different from you. I want to tell all Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards that they can be absolutely sure that none of Mr Torra's identity claims will turn into reality. The Catalans and the rest of the Spanish, fortunately, we must make it clear that our country is a great democracy, a democracy that guarantees and will guarantee the law and the rights of all Catalans. Mr Torra, if you intend to follow the path you have indicated this morning, do not hesitate, do not have the slightest doubt that your freedom will end when our rights begin. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.21.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. It is now the return of Mr. Eduard Pujol to the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.22.0	Ladies and gentlemen, President of Parliament, I take the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia in this debate on the investiture of candidate Quim Torra and Pla. And from the start, I do it by clinging to a tweet – I also watched Twitter today. I didn't look for him: the tweet found me. « Hopeful and so beautiful, the speech of Quim Torra and Pla. Life, freedom, respect, dialogue... that's what it is and that's what it is. Congratulations. That's it and that's it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They're about to start. We are not well – we are not well –, Mr President, if at every word, if at every sentence, if at every idea, there is the sound disorder of those who do not have the slightest education to listen to the ideas of those who may not be well like their own. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, I would ask that I remain in the time of my intervention all the stops that I have to make every time there is the xixiueig that does not allow me to continue my speech. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.23.0	Quiet, and please! [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.24.0	... – yes, yes – said this... The Parliament is not a tavern, Mr Carrizosa [[remorse of the voice]] Parliament is a place where we should have a minimum of education, and I would ask you to set an example, please. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] See? There's no way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.25.0	Please, be quiet. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.26.0	There's no way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.27.0	Quiet. Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.28.0	Mr. Torra, what I wanted to say to you is that I applaud your speech. The color congrats. Serenor, compromise and strengthen. And I welcome the bet he has repeated and repeated and repeated, the bet for the dialog he has made; the strength he has shown in defending our institutions and values; as you have explained and denounced, I also liked the situation we live in. We can also congratulate, and I am happy, on the commitment to the republican ambition that will guide your government and your – I liked – "liberty and culture. This is where we need to go. I am commenting on it in private, I have commented on it in private at the time and, now, I wanted to do it publicly on behalf of all the Members of the Junts Group for Catalonia, thanks for this speech, for the speech of the morning Republic and country of opportunity. That's exactly what it is. Serenor, compromise and strengthen. This makes it impossible to hear, Mr. Arrimadas, Mr. Albiol, in part, Mr. Iceta, why they did not like the speech of Mr. Torra. No, no, I didn't just hear it. Mr. Torra's speech was a speech with long and large zoom, a speech with culture, a positive speech, a speech of progress and inclusive. He talked about freedom, maybe that, over here, feverish, is a fever facing its values. But he talked about freedom, and I think that collectively we can congratulate him. It dominates the toe, the toe of the serene. Congratulations. What's bothering them? The reference to culture, whether it is inclusive or not that has turned the speech into a television set, what do they really like to do? Don't you want to talk? Don't you ask to talk? Mr. Torra said: "Speak, speak, dialogue, dialogue, dialogue. What more do they want? He said to what he did months that they demanded, that they would ask: "Speak, dial. That's what Mr. Torra offered us... [[Pause.]] Yeah. I've got it here, ma'am. I'm convinced that speaking of tweets and Twitter, there must be a troll, one of these trolls, which is not true, because I was told that Mr. Rivera said that he is in favour of continuing with 155. I am convinced that this is a joke, that someone has spent a bad joke, a heavy joke, a bad pass for passers-by. I've been told they want to continue with 155. Say, please, you're lying. I am convinced, Mr. Torra, that the problem is not you. That's what I wanted to say in private, too, and I'm doing it in public. The problem is not you, the problem is neither Mr. Puigdemont, nor Mr. Turull, nor Mr. Sànchez, in this we share diagnostically with Mr. Sabria. The problem, for some, seems to me to be this Parliament, the existence of this institution, and I would almost say that the existence of the country. And the post-truth, Mrs. Arrimadas, has a problem and it's that, when you talk, there are a lot of people who listen to you and play with post-truth can end up feeling a manipulation tool through emotions and it wouldn't be right – it wouldn't be right. What else? What else? Mr. Domènech, you will be a good government and you will be a good president. And speaking of denunciations, do you know what's been denunciated in the last few months? They have denunciated us or tried to denunciate democracy, and therefore ask them that, according to what equidistance, they are not good. Mr. Albiol, the ballot boxes legitimize. That's why Carles Puigdemont is the legitimate president. The polls have this, they already do this, legitimize it. He thanked me very much... but I don't want to get into trouble, but sometimes it's complicated. I have a written speech, which I have worked on hours and hours, and therefore, it is my pleasure to speak before all of you, but I cannot avoid a certain perplexity when you have spoken of petrol. Mr Albiol, you are the Campsa, the old Campsa. You're all Repsol. You are all the refineries of Cepsa, the BP and the essences of the Enclave; you are exactly all that. And, Mr. Iceta, Mr. Iceta... now, I've lost the papers... [[relays]] But I'll find them. [[Rialles.]] I'll find them. Listening to him made a point of thanking me, when it was expressed that the presidency of the Generality is the highest institution in Catalonia. So, it doesn't seem so, because it might have been possible to swallow 155; this would have been to preach by example and believe 'if actually practice the presidency of the Generality is the highest institution in the country. Why did you do 155, Mr. Iceta? Why the fuck? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.29.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.30.0	In any case, on March 22, we discussed in the first session the investiture of candidate Jordi Turull. The debt, as you know, he was hired. Councillor Turull and Councillors Josep Rull, Raül Romeva, Constellera Dolors Bassa and President Carme Forcadell, all members of this chamber, were also hired. That fact is serious. Here, to the Parliament, here, in this Parliament, there is no going up by opposition, nor by lot; we are not here by papal designation, nor divine, nor by the work and grace of the old monarchy. Here, it's up by the voters' vote, which are sacred. So, well, in the middle of an investiture session, the state took over the ballot box. It's not new. October 1st, the State did not find them, the ballot box; it denied them, came forward and, then, tried to segregate volunteers and votes at fucking times. The hell with the case is, until now, when we talk about arrest and repression, we talk about the franchise. The problem we have when, in the franchise, without knowing it, they were already talking about us. On November 14th he will make fifty-five years of the declarations of the Abbot of Montserrat, Aureli Maria Escarré, to Le Monde newspaper. In some girl statements on the black night of the dictatorship he described where we are now. Father Escarré said: "If there is no genuine freedom, there is no justice. And he adds: "This is what happens to Spain. The Bastard took it away, ensuring that "the people must choose their government and, if they wish, they must be able to change it. That's freedom. Are they ringing? Choosing government, changing it, that's freedom. By 1963, Father Scarré would never have imagined a democratically elected Parliament in a state that is said to be democratic, and that can't sort its president with freedom, that can't sort it four times. Is this, or is it not, ladies and gentlemen, an exceptional situation? Neither Jordi Turull, nor Jordi Sánchez, nor Carles Puigdemont, the legitimate president of Catalonia. Many years from now, we'll read it, they'll read it and they won't believe it, they'll believe it. Joan Maragall said: "Listen, Spain! Today, surely, he wrote: "Doesn't it make you ashamed, Espanya? Mr. Torra, you are a man of letters, an intellectual accustomed to think well, you appreciate history, politics and philosophy. That's why he proposes the dialog, that's why he offers dialogue with the State and with Europe, because he knows that conflicts do not resolve either from resignation or from a justice that is not fair. A conflict between who? From the start, between those who beat and those who touch the rebre; between those who work and those who, to speak clearly, have the most or least subtle threat of the prison; between those who decorate the police who beat and those who want to make us hear that the advice, the children, that, to the people, does not hit her. But it's also a conflict between conservatives and transformers. And this is a punch, in my opinion, interesting and a conflict of legitimacy as well. Always, we have to sort. What are they? After listening to your speech, I am very clear that you have to get out of this Parliament as President of the country, it would be excellent news. As the president of a country of a nation that has the right to be a state, if its citizens want it and express it by voting, civically and democratically, radically, as you say and as you get it from context. But not everyone sees it the same way. There is only in this Parliament, they will limit themselves to opposing a government that they understand as regional, hoping to make the jump to the Spanish Courts. For some, these icons are Sants' station to take the AVE to Madrid, via 2, main platform. For others, this Parliament is the highest expression of the sovereignty of the country. You know and defend that the institution of the Generality goes a long way, from the 14th century, that this institution does not and does not hold back in the middle age; others see it differently. For the PP and Ciutadans, the Generalitat rents, if not, in 1980, thanks to the Spanish Constitution. The PSC pulls a little more back and defense than this institution does with Tarradellas and her arrival from exile on October 77. And yet there is another position, that of the Commons, that place the zero point of this Parliament in 1931, with the Republic. After the conflict, there's this game, this date ball. History, who we are and where we come from, but above all, after this conflict, there is what we want to be. We have the right to defend that this was the first Parliament and that we have always sought for it. But if you want a friend's advice, when you're here, Mr. Torra, don't answer with history, answer with the future. The conflict to be resolved is between those who want to write the future and those who are determined to deny it. And the future, like the ballot box, is sacred. The future is the key to our welfare. You and your government are going to have to defend a better country and, before that, there are those who say that we are already doing well and that we already have enough, that it is a way to renounce the prosperity of Catalonia. You, Mr. Torra, have a crane that will honor the cargo, the moment and the country. Precisely, that's why they ask him to protect the most essential values. I know he will. For example, that of cohesion, he has already said in the morning; that of coexistence, he has already said in the morning, and the fact of being a people's sun, which he has already said in the morning. This, yes, a people with different opinions and opinions. It's never about companies with a single opinion. Parents who sometimes seem or are contradictory to each other or who sometimes join millions of people in the idea of change, as is the case. They also ask you, because the know-how, that you protect our health, and our school, and our language and our communication media; of course, because you defend the health, school, teachers, language and communication media, you will be defending the people of this country, the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and equal opportunities. We want the republic, because in the past, and at the front and side of this idea there are people; "humanism, you are in the morning. People with their dreams, their curses, but also with their illusions. Always, always, always, but especially, in this legislature, the President, and the Government, and the Parliament and the parties that collect the will, the right and the need to make the republic we must take all decisions always, always, always, always, the people. You think the Republic is a generous idea that everyone gets because I acquit everyone. Listen, explain, decide, always, always, always, always people. Before the applause for the dialect vocation expressed, dialog with the Spanish State, dialog; dialog with Europe, dialog, and dialog also with the interior of the country. About this dialogue with the interior of the country, it is certain, we have to go out and explain to us, to explain to us more. We need to talk to the people, we need to explain that this also went through repression and that this also went through construction. With your visit, we will insist on the dialogue with the country, with the interior. You have done very well to address the world, Europe, in this morning's speech; but now, from Juntes to Catalonia, allow me to address the country's conjunct. Catalans and Catalans, freedom and prosperity are two inseparable concepts. There will be no welfare without democracy, no prosperity without freedom, no future without dignity. It's not poetry, it's the future, it's our future. Let's play the future of the besnets of which I am aware, the prosperity of the children of whom we are pairs today. We're not talking about intangibles: it's our life and the way we want to write it. It's the two plus two of a country that has the whole right of the world to be ready, and just, and free. Since provisionality, yes, because we are at a time of exceptionality – that explains the provisionality – since the provisionality that you said President Puigdemont pointed out and with the objective of raising 155 and with the objective of far too close and far exile, the sea of the eggs, the objective, is to build. "Building is a good word. We will build a bitter society of the republican values of equality, fraternity and freedom; of the people and the people's servants, this is our proposal. We want an inclusive, democratic country, it will rise, respect and conciliator with diversity, open to alliances with other sovereigns, resilient before the difficulties and compromise with the reprehenses of the new time. The work we propose, Mr. Torra, is very powerful, very great. We all need each other and we all need everything. We are – and we must not be fully conscious – the spearhead of a great change, and we are only once, as I like to say. The idea of change is seductive. Does anyone in this hemisphere think it shouldn't be passionate to turn the country from the Commonwealth or into the years of the Republic? Even in the Transition and with the coming to power of President Felipe González, October 82, in Spain the idea of transforming, Mr.Iceta, should be exciting. When he explained his bet for the e-state, to be the first state that needs digital, that doesn't have to go from analytics to digital, he made me think of Mr Prat of the Riba. The Commonwealth has a virtue that defines it: it's always moved in one direction: vertebrate the country. Well, I think of Prat de la Riba when he was defending the arrival of the phone as a tool of cohesion and modernity. Mr. Prat faced the hooligans who at that time defended the diligence that the postal mail carried every fifteen days. I'm sure that among those who prefer a coach every week instead of communicating with the view there were conservatives, on the benches and on the left, who ensured that the phone, Mr. Torra, would break families. First, Nadal's day, and then, all the days of the year. The phone. Now the change proposal, it's true, it's more ambitious, but we already have it here. And it's up to us to explain this change and defend it and manage it, and manage it and defend it. That's why we say to the people of Catalonia from Junts for Catalonia: "Let's take advantage of the repte col·lectiu. Let's go, keep up, 'cause it's gone. Bufen winds of change. We have the opportunity that all the people and all the generations have sown: a white full to build a new country. A society that embraces change is a brave society. To make the new country we cannot act, nor do, nor think, nor move 'nscom always. We cannot convert it "as we have always done" and "because it does" into a battleship that stops us. The other key is that we will have to love a new attitude: that of the transformative will. We are transformers, we have come to transform, to transform changing, to transform transgressing, and, when convenient, we maintain. Each in its own sphere, this is a global cry to all the citizens of this country, each in its own sphere, in its own responsibility, and all in one, politics and civil society, a whole honest country, ready to transform. Mr. Torra, when Gaudí was projecting La Pedrera, Mig Catalunya was staggering and a few more said than in any way. Today we say: "Oh! And we say it in many languages, because people all over the world see what Mr. Gaudí did a few years ago; a "oh with many bones." Ladies and gentlemen, we are the GATCPAC of politics, we must be the Mies van der Rohe of public life. When Ildefons Cerdà designed Barcelona in the form of a grid, those living on the wall had to tell him..., they told him everything. So we skip the wall. There's nothing contradictory about it. "The new one excites me and the old one loves me, which J. V. Foix told us. At a moment's notice, the words have, of course, an import. On the day of Sant Jordi, in the presence of some of you, here in Parliament, the poet Lluís Solà said: "The word is responsibility. Yeah, the word is responsibility, because we're worded people and every word means what it means. Mr. Torra, when he says "dialeg," he means "dialeg." And we want to say that there will be no delay – no delay – in defending the political rights of this country. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are hereuses of '1 October and children of the ballot box mandate of 21 December. And we'll repeat it every time I do, where I do and when I do. Our compromise with October 1 is coughy and indestructible, because October 1 changed everything. The change is irreversible, because the people's mandates are irreversible. This is our compromise. The compromise of President Puigdemont, the compromise of candidate Torra and of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia with the country is explained, if I may, drawing a square. The angles of this square, which is Catalonia, are dignity, freedom, democracy and prosperity for all. That's why we're faithful to October 1, 2017. « But if the 1st of October is only a date! , have told us repeatedly from the benches of the "no. "But if October 1 is Matrix! , will proclaim each time with less grace and more abhorrence the servants of the "no. "Matrix! Professionals of "no, do you know what they say? : mock the date of '1 October when it has value, for example, of making Maig mock of '68; explain to the French and to Europe that the young people who wrote' continued to be realists, ask the impossible were some true men and men without reason; explain to the protagonists of that French Maig who lived in a menu of Social Matrix; have value of laugh's of change, of the French Maig, of the Prague Spring, of the Revolution of the Clavells and of our 1 October, have value. The Maig of '68 was a move that said enough to an old and gray and abrogated society, that would have died of old, gray and abrogated, for its own fever and its own offense. France says: "It forbids banning. Freedom begins with a ban. So here the Spanish State has been living through prohibition for months. What else can they forbid? What else do they have to punish? What else can they blame? Actually, and it was for them, everything. Prohibit building, suppress building. Change is a direct question to the people, but also to all the Members of this House, to all the Members of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, deputies and deputies: and are you past or want to be future? They aim at it, they aim to build it, or you're already good at 155 and destroy everything that's not? Think about it. Mr. Iceta, what would those who were the bosses of that great work of transforming Barcelona in the year 92 be? What are you triars? Getting the march back to transform it? Think about it. And if the machine of the time allows us to place ourselves, for example, at Holy Week of 77, in a dissabte, the Dissabte of Gloria, on April 9, 77, you would legalize the Communist Party or say: "No, no, no, what we have for the change, better let us leave it as it is? Transform or conserve? And, alertly, that doesn't change to transform. We defend public policies that ensure equal opportunities, social cohesion, progress, with quality public services, with a modern economy, an economy that serves the economic fabric that defines us. We want a transformation into good governance, transparency, accountability. We want citizens empowered, we want to transform to achieve fullness in the policies of struggle against climate change, in the implementation of guaranteed income or the law of energy poverty without the insensitive of an insensitive state. The confession that I understand that it costs, that it's never a good time to start being brave, but also the confession that sometimes there's no more reason or more out than being brave. To the Maig of 68 they also said: "Under the pavements, the beach–" under the panots, under the asphalt, the platja. Right now, exactly half a century ago, there must have been good people of the Drets, the Mig and the Left saying no, that under the asphalt there is no platter, that the platter is the platter, and the Elisis Camps, the Elisis Camps. They are the same people who today would deny here the wind of change and ask for the impossible, which the wind stops blowing. We have to sort. Under the asphalt of the Urgell street of Barcelona and of the Sant Sebastià branch of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, or of the Ferran branch of Lleida, or of the Plaça de la Font de Tarragona, or of the Om de Manresa plain, under the pavements, the beach; under the panots, under the asphalt, the platja. Under the floor of the square of the Barca de Flix, or the square of the Bovera Schools, or the walk of the Pau de Berga, what is it? What do we want? We have to sort. Under the pants and asphalt of our streets, what do we want? Repressed it or prospered it? The platter is creating, designing, thinking, imagining, assembling and doing. In the words of candidate Torra, « talent, project, leadership and unity. Let's talk about the same thing: resembling and doing. And, candidate Torra, I've been here a long time, wanting to explain the father's fault, the son and the donkey, but we'll leave it for another occasion. I like it a lot, huh? But now I will limit myself to expressing our support. You and President Puigdemont will be on our side. We're looking at you now that some of us would want to get tired and guys, but we're strong, because exceptionality has made us strong. There are those who do not believe in the sovereignty of Parliament, in the ballot box, in the votes or in democracy, but we are people of compromise and we have each other. And we have the country. On March 1st, in this same rostrum, Mr. Torra, some words were read that have now risen. They are these: "No one will silence us or abdicate the principles and ideas that we defended yesterday, that we defended today and that we defend tomorrow. The cause of the liberty of Catalonia is a just cause, the cause of the independence of Catalonia is a legitimate cause, the cause of the Catalan Republic is an honorable cause. The text ended with this saying: "And we feel called upon by the citizenry to continue, and after we continue, and after we continue. Do they sound like it? These words were spoken by Mr Quim Torra, whom I hope to be able to address as a very honourable President. You will honor the dialogue and firmness of the country's presidency. Serenor, firm, committed. Always think of people – always people – and a country of opportunity for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans. While we wait for the return of those who today cannot be there and we will work to raise the shame of 155. Carcellers of Catalonia, dignity, prou; prou prison, prou exile and prou aggression. And I'm done, I've got a little bit of a slow ending. You have an exciting task, it's up to you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.31.0	Mr. Pujol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.32.0	...leading from Catalonia... – please..., I ended up –, to you it is up to lead from Catalonia the change, the transformation and the construction of a better country, with fidelity to republican values – that I know it will do it –, equality, freedom, fraternity and culture. Mr Quim Torra and Pla, we are willing to recover your life with you in the future. In this proposal, think of what I always say and that this evening I don't want to be – some MP will deny me –: "The cell is blue, the cell is always blue. Candidate Quim Torra, has our support, our affirmed vote. Thank you for being brave and all – all – the fate of this world. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.33.0	Once all the groups have intervened, it's the return of the candidate's reply. Mr. Torra, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.34.0	Yeah, nice late. I will go and make observations on each of the parliamentary groups. And the first, the Ciutadans Group. Mrs. Arrimadas, look, I'm very happy with your speech. [[Widow's remorse.]] The truth is, I thought the articles I was writing for these mons de Deu didn't read them to anyone. [[relays]] And it turns out I have a legacy of unholy followers. [[Greetings.]] I, if you will, may I have a suggestion, I have written some books, one of which is the last hundred_metres, and, I don't know, they would do me a great favor, especially to my editors, so, if the compress, the legisisin, too, speak. From this point of view, I thank them. Now, also ask them, as Aurora Bertrana asked from exile in Switzerland..., says: "Home, do not condemn me before reading them. That's what I'm asking for, too. There's been a lot of talk about tweets six years ago. Jo, yesterday, TV3, I expressed it. I'm sorry if anyone could feel offended. I'm telling you honestly. And so, publicly, today, too, here in Parliament, I repeat. You were talking about dialing. And he says, "Home, we need to talk about dialogue among ourselves. This Parliament, the last legislature went about this; it went to talk, went to debate, went to dialogue between us. And today President Forcadell – President Forcadell – to allow a debate – to allow a debate – President Forcadell is in prison. This is absolutely unacceptable. So, if we ask for dialy, ask for it... [[applause]] We ask him with all the consequences. You and we are going to take risks, this legislature. [[Widow's remorse.]] We'll have to take risks... will I have to take risks in concrete terms? Surely – surely. Miri, I'm already out of this debate threatened. Imagine if I take it, risks. There's already a director of the PP who already asks me to go to Exremera directly. Yeah, that's just for starters, huh? So... but I think we have to take risks, huh? – and Mr. Iceta was commenting, and I think he's on this line – we have to take risks, all folds, groups in this room, if we want to move forward. Therefore, when we ask for a dialog, we ask for it all sincerely. On the plan of government, between the « telephone list that some people have somehow criticized the speech that our friend and counselor Jordi Turull made, and the one that I have been able to explain to them today, I understand that there is a small gap, eh? But it was hard to deal with this debate trying to explain the objectives and ideas that were in the line of strategy that we wanted to follow with a plan of government with the detail with which Councillor Jordi Turull presented himself. Therefore, this government, as you know, will present a plan of government in the next few days; we will have occasion to debate with all – with all – the details. Yes, I'm sorry, especially, a quote you've made, Mrs. Arrimadas. The appointment made by Vice President Junqueras. And I'm sorry because Vice President Junqueras isn't in the room. And you, if you make a name..., yes, if you make a sentence attributed to Vice President Junqueras, you don't do it; you don't do it because he can't defend himself because he's in prison. [[Perlongats applause.]] I was just saying, we're going to remember, and we're not done with the debate, and we're going to get some of these menaces out of this room. But you should all agree that, listen, this is not the case with President Puigdemont, nor with candidate Quim Torra, it is the case with millions of people, it is the case with hundreds of people willing to take our place. Don't they know we'll never give up? Because this is the key point of our debate. And, therefore, it is necessary, in this dialog that we must undertake – in this dialog that we must undertake – that we have absolutely present. To the companies of the Republican Left, thank you very much. Sergi, a magnificent speech, in which I am left with an idea that seems very important to me: independence as a gearbox. And, if you'll excuse me, even so I think independence is the engine of change in Spain as well. I mean, I don't see that the problem of Catalonia's freedom is just our problem. There are two problems here: the problem of the freedom of Catalonia and the problem of the freedom of Spain. And, too, when you came to me with this idea, I trust that the Spanish people are making a process of change, too, a process of change to the republic. This is the process I expect, and I encourage the Spanish citizens who do it. Dial. Deieu, des d'Esquerra: "Spain, Europe, the world; here you see our mediation. And, certainly, we will have to make every effort to have this international mediation, of course. "We will recover the institutions for the citizenry, and a government of resistance to the republic. It seems to me an excellent definition of what we want this government to be. The anti-repressive front proposed by the President of Parliament, of course, we must work on it. I can be-there's a lot– a lot. And I also encourage the PSC companies that are joining. On this anti-repressive front we have to be a lot. Because it is here, it seems to me, where there is the greatest pain, at these moments, of Catalan society. And it seems to me that the office of civil and political rights also seemed to me to be an excellent idea that we will have to set out as soon as possible. To the Socialist Group. I would not have accepted this candidacy if the presidency of the Generalitat were relegated. I think it's a lot different to talk about an exceptional situation than a strong government. What is exceptional, abnormal, brutally abnormal, is the political situation that Catalonia has seen. The government will not be temporary; it will be a strong government, and I assure you it will be. I like your speeches a lot, Mr. Iceta. For his irony, for his way of explaining things. And, if it seems to you, the debate about independence and catalanism and which are the different connections, is a very interesting and profound debate that we should have, and that we will certainly need much longer. We've all changed a lot, certainly, but what I know the hardest is the Socialist Party change. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. I can feel it. I know it's hard because... Yeah, I've been studying history a little bit, and those PSC couples, huh? , that Movement of the Socialists of Catalonia, that Rafael Campalans, Serra and Moret, or we pass already to Josep Pallach, or..., we can get to Joan Revantós and Pasqual Maragall..., I know very hard that that historical thread has been lost and that from a PSC who was supporters of the right to self-determination has passed to a PSC that has given support to Article 155. I'm getting really hard. And whatever we can do to get back to the old PSC, listen, we, loved life. [[Greetings.]] But I thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. [[remorse of the voice]] , words with pain, with respect, with resemblance. I really appreciate you waiting...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.35.0	One moment; one moment, Mr. Torra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.36.0	...to see what this government does...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.37.0	Mr. Torra... Mr. Torra, a moment; a moment, please. They must respect the use of the word, in this case, the candidate. Then they'll have a replica turn. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.38.0	I thank you very much for your judgment, waiting to see who the actions of this government will be, and I accept this opportunity that you give us. I think that's a good way to start. He also said: "The social majority could not be seen. But, of course, it's what we're trying to do years ago in this country. Do we see her all of a sudden? How will this social majority be seen in favour of or against independence? With a self-determination reference. It's the only way to find out. To the companies of In Comú Can, and the itinerary followed these last five months. I think this itinerary of these five months really was important. That is to say, it was important to see the process we have followed in the exile strategy; it was important to contrast every candidate our group presented what was going on before a state that, in honor of Councillor Turull and his famous phrase, pulls for the right. It's just that we've seen things... it's just... things that I think as democrats have hurt us deeply. That is to say, the arrest of Councilman Jordi Turull from an investiture debate seems to me to be an absolutely impossible thing to hear from a rational point of view. So it seems to me that this itinerary was worth following, isn't it? You said: "Will it be a good government? How many counselors are there? Listen, if it's what he came out for, we'll have a government of fifty-five advisors, because it's that they came out with drawings of names, and the truth is that the government, if this candidacy moves forward, so we're already naming him. The presidency's dispatch. That's a debate, too, huh? ... in this country of ours, suddenly, there are some debates, which you say: "Well, now, the presidency's dispatch. I honestly don't know who was occupying President Puigdemont. I don't know. I don't know where he's at, right there. But some of the company gave me a note. And if it seems to you... Xavier, if it seems to you, we could go see it, the table of President Companies, together. Because it turns out that the table isn't in Palau, but it's at the Canong House. I mean, on President Puigdemont's desk, they say, for the note they passed me, he's no longer there, but he's at the Canong House. In any case, it is very interesting the table of President Companies. Why does it turn out that the table was recovered after the Franco army, huh? the same army that the President Company executed, took over it for forty years. I mean, it sounds like a very nice, very interesting story. And to respect the memory of the Presidents of the Generality, and in concrete terms of the President Afusellat, Lluís Companies, seems to me very important, seems to me vital; a country is respect, also, for its history, for its Presidents. But President Companies is not a table; President Companies is a memorandum. Therefore, we respect the memory of President Companies and his people and institutions. [[Greetings.]] You also asked: "Do you want the same, all independents? And that's a good question. And it's a good question because we've come all the way up here to say that independent groups may have different strategies, dull, certainly. Independentist movement is a cross-cutting movement, and it also costs us to reach our consensus. I can only say that I was involved in negotiations with the CUP. I think it was very frank, very sincere negotiations, and that on the 30th of January we had an agreement to reach this Parliament. So, there was a lot of negotiation going on, we got to some very important points of agreement. And we continue to work on strategic and future lines in the country. Therefore, for me the problem is not of the seventy Members; it is that I would like the problem to be of the seventy-eight Members, and I would like that you, that the Commu Group may enter, enter the negotiations, too, to bring this country forward. [[Some applause.]] Exceptional situation, strong government. I think we've already commented. And the last point: we need to move forward. And you commented three points: to advance in self-government and recognition of Catalonia, to advance socially and nationally, to advance in rights and freedoms. Completely agree. In these headlines we agree. So, as much as we can dig into these headlines, let's work there, let's work there together. Companies, companies of the CUP. You know that, because we've been talking and negotiating hours, and you know that, probably, of this chamber, of my group, there's no one who has hurt you more than we can invest President Puigdemont. You said, on the line that Xavier Domènech was also commenting on, didn't you? And in the different shades of the independence movement, which, if we don't make the effort to recognize them, we won't move forward. We've also set ourselves up in this controversy or this debate about unilaterality and disobedience, haven't we? I think it's a debate we should try to deal with in another way. I mean, why don't we take him to opportunities and moments? It's like, taking advantage of opportunities, seeing the moments we have ahead of us. Maybe it's a debate where independence can be found? Maybe it's a more productive debate for all folds? I went into my school with my family before the first of October, and we stood up for each other, so we saw that the first of October was possible, right? Was it a unilateral act? Of course it's going to be. But it was an opportunity, too. We don't just stand with unilaterality or disobedience, see me now, see the opportunities, right? And I would also like to say that you believe them..., the deep ties, forgive..., to all the companies that are not here..., also were there, huh? , in the electoral collèges defending..., defending their collèges, and some money, eh? Like Councilwoman Clara Ponsatí. So, we're still looking forward to how we can move forward together. I've always denied CUP pressing, I've completely denied myself, and I guess like they've already looked at fifty-thousand times the tweets I could have done about the CUP, so I'm sure it's coming out. For me the CUP forms part of the solution, because this project is either a project of seventy Members or it is a project that cannot be advanced. And, therefore, we need all of us. This country has some great reps: either we start all the lives of republican action or it will be very difficult for us to face the reps that come up, very difficult. Therefore, I insist, even though we have the votes, we will continue to ask for help. Talk about the assembly of electors, coming in. Talk about the process is, let's get involved here. You talk about the pressure of republican power, let's talk about it, what does it consist of? I God: "Autonomic cycles? This government does not see autonomy or autonomy, in absolute terms. But it's that it can't come from the independence majority because from the first of October it's no longer possible for a government to look forward to, it's a government looking forward, looking toward the republic. That's who you are. Because either we believe it, or we come from October 1, or we don't believe it. And, therefore, if we leave October 1st and October 1st, it is almost, if you will, a founding moment of country. And, therefore, we are looking forward. This government will not be autonomous. And to the company of the PP..., well, first agrate that the Moncloa, therefore, has already advanced its position, the sense of its vote and speech. It's something that while you're debating here, Madrid is talking to everybody, huh? I don't know... I'm saying, "Listen, maybe we could decide here, right? In the same Parliament? So, no. The truth is that it tastes hard..., it tastes hard personal, I..., it makes me think that I am emerging from this debate, therefore, with a tweet from the governor of the PP of Madrid, Mr. Manglano, who says: « Quim Torra presents his candidacy to the prison of Extremera. It's a round tweet, huh? It's a tweet that places you, let's just say, in front of what you said, right? I mean, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'd like to see them all corrected, the risks, to find an agreement and to find a dialog. I'd love to find them all, but if we have to run, we'll run. He's telling me I'm a radical. Yeah, soc a radical. I mean, I know a radical because I like to get into trouble. And I like to recall a few words from one of the people I admire most politically from this country: Manel Carrasco and Formigera. Carrasco and Anmiguera was a democratic Christianity squandered for the Francos in Burgos in the year 38. In Carrasco, in the Congress of the Deputies, also the van titlar of radical – the van titlar of radical. He was the only Member who defended the Statute of Autonomy and said: "No, listen to me, if the Catalans have voted a Statute of Autonomy the Congress of Madrid cannot touch it, this Statute of Autonomy. The rest of the Catalan Members did not hold the same, let's say, way of hearing it, and this led to the expulsion of the parliamentary group. Well, Mr. Carrasco and Antiguera, huh? A father of a family of eight children, a Christian Democrat, had gone to the Jesuits, a defender of the Jesuits, had also had some really deep bars with the Republican Left and Catalan Action Group, with which they share a group in the Catalan minority... So, Mr Carrasco and Anmiguera said: "Escoltin, it is an honor for me to be a radical and to defend Catalonia radically, eh? And from this point of view, as Carrasco and Anmiguera said, I repeat: to defend Catalonia, the radicality that it may be. I, finally, ask you an answer to a specific question, right? About what we're gonna do. Miri, I'm only willing to express the people of Catalonia, only to her. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.39.0	Given the candidate's intervention, each group will have three and a half minutes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's what the Rules stipulate, you know perfectly well. Madame Arrimadas, when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.40.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it's the most inconsistent response to an investiture speech I've heard, and I've heard a few already. He did not talk about social policies, education, investment, infrastructure or health, or whether he was going to negotiate a better funding system. What did you talk about? The only thing you're gonna talk about, right? Can you believe that, in a reply that has no time limit, you have not even had the decency to name any social, economic issues? But what are we going to expect from you? And then, indignant – indignant – the answer you have given to what we have read from your articles. But what is this? But how can anyone come out here to laugh if—"ja, ja, ja, ja, now that my books and articles will be read—after what I have told you you have said? But what is this? But who did you think you were? What's he doing, mocking after you've humiliated us repeatedly? But do you really pretend to be president of the Generalitat? Is that your answer, laughing? Mr. Sabrià, do you like what Mr. Torra has just done, with these comments? I look into your eyes, Mr. Sabrià, is that okay with you? Is it all right with you what Mr. Torra has done? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In which democratic country not only can this gentleman, after having said this, present himself at an investiture, but he laughs at what he has said instead of coming here and lowering his head and asking for forgiveness? But what is this? But where have we come to? But what have you done with Catalonia to get to this situation? That you have said it is not natural to speak Spanish in Catalonia, that 55_per_cent of Catalans have Spanish as their mother tongue. But what are you talking about, Mr. Torra? Are you coming to laugh? Don't deny it, don't apologize... no, no, no. He says: "No, I said yesterday on TV3... – that, of course, on TV3 they didn't ask him about the articles, which are much worse than their tweets – "No, I said that, if anyone had felt offended, for nothing, that you apologize; and of the articles... already, well, more people are going to read them. It's..., really, I'm left with stone – of stone. I don't know how you can really have this bar. And that the gentlemen of Esquerra, of the CUP and of Junts per Catalunya have come out here and have not had the slightest decency to say: "Well, with regard to these comments, we really do not share them, so... And the opportunity to separate ourselves from this, this is for the court on guard – this is for the court on guard. That a person says it is not natural to speak in Spanish in Catalonia... Do you imagine that this comment of ‘it is not natural for you to address it to a certain group, which, by the way, is sometimes used? Would you come here and laugh at what you said? Or would you come here to apologize? He says: "No, it was six years ago. As if six years ago you were a teenager here who didn't know very well the ideas you had. Really, of all that has happened today, that you laugh at the replica..., is that..., is that this, is outrageous – this is outrageous. Not even a moral lesson, huh? , neither a moral lesson– nor a moral lesson. That the CUP didn't have a word when this gentleman went to Daniel Cardona's tributes, is incredible. That Republican Left has said nothing, Mr. Sabrià, is incredible. I'm telling you from the heart: amazing. And I tell you more: very unintelligent, very unintelligent for your political objectives. You said, Mr Torra: "What do you think, that we are going to get tired? And what do you think we're gonna get tired of? [[Greetings.]] What do you think we're gonna get tired of? Do you really believe that? [[Greetings.]] No, no... Those of us who defend citizenship above the exclusive identity, which is what you defend, will not get tired. Those of us who defend equality ahead of privileges, which is what you do, will not get tired. Those of us who defend solidarity and union, and that the rulers respect the laws as any neighbor's child, will not tire out. Those of us who are defending a European project that was founded precisely to fight against what you are defending here today, we are not going to get tired. And I tell you one thing, fighting nationalism has always been very hard...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.41.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.42.0	... very hard – very hard. And I assure you, it's very hard. Leading the alternative with those speeches you have is very hard. But I tell you: always fighting against identity-excluding nationalism is always worth it, always. And that's what we're gonna keep doing, always. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.43.0	Time's up, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.44.0	Mr. Carrizosa, I know you don't have the twist of the word right now. Mr. Sabri, come in.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.45.0	Who, begin by thanking you for your answer. We share this willingness to work together for a strong government, for a government that works for everyone, transformative and with a marked social axis. A government that, for us, must be lasting, because we believe that the country needs it and needs it. We'll do our job: we'll stand on the left, defend Republican values, and do it together. We're gonna need a dial, and we're gonna do it together, too. And, therefore, we are sure to move forward together towards the republic. Let me talk a little bit about the rest, even though we don't have much time, because everyone has talked about Esquerra and, therefore, I would like to be able to answer them. Today, tell the CUP that we have once again shown our commitment to October 1. Our commitment to walk, to continue growing, to continue internationalizing what is going on in our country, to continue with the anti-repressive struggle, convinced that the Republic is the way, the only way, and that we can only do it together. Let's propose social struggle. We propose nonviolent disobedience and progressive policies. We have agreed together to end concerts at the elite schools or to recover management of the ATLL. Not far away – not far away – from the conference we shared last week with you. You want to mark differences and I want us to find each other again, unfortunately, because together – together – when we went together, it's the more we've moved forward, when the country has moved forward. And it seems to me that at the moment where we are, at this time of difficulty, we can only continue walking together. To Mr. Domènech, today we were hoping for a solution for Catalonia and he didn't give it to us. We were hoping for a proposal from you and you didn't give it to us. [[Widow's remorse.]] He asked us a question, yes: will it be a good government? Yeah. And we'll find each other more often than they think. We have to find each other. It will be a government of resistance. And when we die of resistance, I mean we have to resist in order to help the citizens. And you must be. It will be a strong government if we find ourselves, too, in Parliament. They also depend on your attitude, and I'm sure we'll find each other. I don't need them to come, I don't need them to go. The paths are to be found, because ours is a social and progressive proposal and we wouldn't understand that they weren't there. To the PSC, I don't know what to say... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't know what to say to him, because they justify the repression when they say we're here because we looked at the other gang and saw what consequences there were. And this is a PSC that I don't share, I don't recognize – and I don't recognize. I'm proud to see the socialists on that bench with us today. [[Greetings.]] And I just want to remind them that 155 is also you, but worse, because they make you see that they are not. And, despite everything, despite all this – despite everything – our hand continues to be extended – our hand continues to be extended. Keep going, because we want to work with you. Mrs. Rimadas, look at'mal eyes... [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.46.0	Mr. Sabria...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.47.0	...when Mr. Torra talks about prisoners and you laugh, does it seem normal to him? Me neither. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.48.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. It's the return to the Lord... Miquel Iceta, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.49.0	Thank you, Mr. President. And out of respect, and because this debate is what it is, Mr. candidate, I don't know if we've understood everything. [[Funnel veils]] But I demand respect for all ideas, respect the law, respect the institutions, respect the majorities necessary for reforms and a great effort to secure wounds and to bring the country back. If this is the path, I'm sure we'll find each other. If, on the other hand, the path is a unilateral and illegal way to dispense with my country to break Catalonia and separate us from Spain, they will find us against it. Second question I wanted to tell you. He pointed out that you liked the socialists of the past, it's a debate that we've already had here. But I was already at the PSC when they were running in Reventos, Maragall and Obiols. [[applause]] And then they give them botiflers. And fortunately, since there were no tweets, there were no tweets, because I liked reading what you wrote at that time. [[Widow's remorse.]] But from all angles, it doesn't seem to me the most uplifting of the debate. The most salient thing is that you said: "Home, let's see if we can count on it at a time. We've counted on each other a few times, maybe not in the way we want. We counted on 2012, on November 9, 2014, 2015, 2017, elections, but also October 1. We believe that a reference to independence is not the solution, with a country divided by half. And, on the subject of whether you are Catalan or not, to me, when someone once put us in doubt, I always go to the top of that phrase of Lluís Companies after declaring the Catalan State in the Spanish Republic, which said: "Well, now you will not say that I am not Catalan enough. So this fight for the plane who's the most what's the least is very old. On other questions that have been said, well, remember that the Cerdà plan in the van imposed since Madrid; look, they are the things of life. To remember also..., and it seems to me very well that some have more by reference Prat of the Riba. I also have to tell you: between Prat de la Riba or Daniel Cardona and the Germans Badia, I also Prat de la Riba; I mean, if it is to be sorted. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] It has been said whether or not the Socialists are in favour of change. Miri, we've always been, whenever we can. Now, always on the edge of the island and most marginally in the middle of the country. Therefore, in any change, not in any way. And we think it's the way to do it. And I found Sergi Sabrià's intervention especially difficult. Miri, there were 155 because you came out of the law, split the country and wanted to separate us from Spain when most people didn't want to. [[Greetings.]] We warned them over two years of the risks of everything they wanted to do, and you didn't take care of them, and then it's everyone else's fault. So, miri, no. To me at 155, I've always said, do I like it? No, no, Did I see him inevitable? Yes, declared independence..., even though they did it in this way that you do things, that many times the words are great and solemn, great proclamations, and then it turns out that things were what they were. "No, it wasn't that important, we gave it to the gallery, we wanted to save the furniture... Finally, I find it hard that the Socialists are following the Socialist Party, we are still willing to hear 'as well as the left, but always posing ahead of the civil unit and that we really are and following a people's sun, and not playing pyramids, that sometimes they carry great fires. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.50.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. It's Mr. Domènech's turn now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.51.0	Mr. Sabrià, it wasn't my job, it was the job of the candidate for the presidency of the Government of Catalonia to explain who the solutions were. [[Greetings.]] But don't worry, we have explained many more solutions with much clearer clarity than what was explained here today and we have proposed things of the future with much clearer clarity than what was proposed here. Do they want the same? I don't think so. You've had an eternal fight, a judo fight that has starred in the Government of the Generality... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What's going on? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Huh? Ah! Okay, but now I'm not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.52.0	Excuse me, Mr. Domènech, I hadn't made time. You do, you do...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.53.0	You carry years with an internal judo fight between the independence forces that have sometimes been very dissociated for the country, but it is now that I think it went beyond the fight for power: it is that you do not have the same strategy, simply, for something even harder. And I'm really growing up. They can have convictions, they don't have strategy at these times. And, for what it does to you, because today we're playing its presidency, look, I'm left..., I could make myself clear even if the CUP ended up thinking that you– more than anything else, the fact that you said that you are an interim president can always evoke historical things, and if you have choices between five and six months still – that the CUP ended up thinking – just like sometimes you seem to think that this is a Soviet; full of menxevics, it's true, but a Soviet – that you, therefore, could be the Kerenski, right? That's it, and that's it... that they can think of you. It is clear to me that for Mr Puigdemont you are a candidate for five months, which is clear to me. I'm not very clear, but I suspect that for the Republican Left you are a step to go, I don't know where. But what I had to make clear, what we had to make clear to the people of Catalonia was what you proposed and what your presidency meant. And he had a magnificent opportunity, when I asked him directly: "What do you think of the Spaniards? Because I'm responding to this explains how you design Catalonia, and that's probably the most important thing to decide a president, which is what you think it's Catalonia. Not what he thinks of the 155th commission or what it is..., many things that are likely to be done, I don't deny it; but what do you think is Catalonia. And there's no answer. And the answer isn't just to apologize for some tweets. The answer is to say, positively, what he thinks we are Catalans and Catalans. [[Some applause.]] And finally, I was completely convinced by the intervention of Mr. Eduard Pujol, that is to say, I was completely convinced that we would not support them. Because, of course, if Mr. Eduard Pujol thinks he can put up some pain with others, he means he doesn't understand the country. If you can say, when you say to him: "Look, you have approved a measure that facilitates the denunciations of the State, you can say: "Ah! But I don't care about that, because they've been calling it democracy here – they've been calling it all of us, huh? , to all of us, they have called it – when you say this is proving one essential thing; two or three, perhaps. Catalonia still leads today's denunciations from all over the State, Catalonia has the highest taxes in all the State, Catalonia has the longest waiting lists in all the State. In denunciations, people who are part of their group have played a clear role in the legislation of denunciations after all the state. In taxes, people who are part of the other group offered to Mr. Wert the model of taxes that have converted Catalonia into the highest taxes in the whole State. And that's Catalan and Catalan problems. And the problems of Catalans and Catalans are also of freedom. Do you know what the difference is between you and us? That we don't oppose one freedom to another. That when we speak of one freedom we will not say: "There is another freedom. Who know perfectly well that there is only freedom all together, and all of them. And when you say that the denunciations in Catalonia don't interest you, because the only one that interests you... [[Funnel veils]] "Yes," said I, Mr. Pujol, "when they say that they convince us even more that transforming, transforming, transforming and building the future of this country is far from the whole country, they know the country and all the needs of the country, not only that which you are constantly obsessed with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.54.0	It's Mr. Carles Riera's turn now, right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.55.0	Thank you, President; from the escó. Mr. Torra, we want to ask you some questions, some questions to your proposal, but go so far as to assume them as well as shared questions, as shared questions. Dialog with the State without conditions or dialog with the State to talk about self-determination and the Republic and something else? What about the king or the removal of the Bourbon monarchy to Catalonia? There are two questions that seem to us to be in the phone book that we resolve, if we want to make a certain move towards the republic. In your speech you spoke, for what it does to the socioeconomic aspect, of: "first, growth, and then redistribution. We replace it to reflect on it in another way: first, redistribution, and from redistribution we think about what is the most appropriate economic model to ease it. They're talking transitional or interim legislatures. Who are the facts, the events that mark the transition from a situation of provisionality to the effective republic? They haven't settled, they haven't come true on your part. In any case, we find ourselves, in the debate and in the struggle, a struggle in which we certainly share that the October 1st was the founding moment of the republic, a republic that effectively changed our lives for all and that changed our country's life forever. We take very good note of his statement, underlined, that he will not, that he does not want to make autonomy, that he does not want to make autonomy; to take very good note. And we actually place ourselves in the line of what I am proposing and proposing, we actually place ourselves in the process, as a republican constitution, to refer it democratically to this legislature and to the assembly of electors. We place ourselves in these folds as shared folds, to share them from within and from outside institutions, with the anti-repressive struggle...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.56.0	Mr. Riera...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.57.0	...with mobilization and, indeed, with international action. And humbly, as I said – forgive me, President, I finish – in my first intervention, effectively, our movement, from compromise to construction, from inevitable compromise to construction of the lower republic, will decide. And he will decide, I assure you, for the republic and for independence. What our movement will decide, there is no doubt that it will be good for the republic and good for independence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.58.0	It's Mr. García Albiol's turn now, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.59.0	Yeah, pretty quick, and with this minute and a half I've got. Mr. Torra, with your reply you have not shown that you are or want to be an interim president; it is that with your reply what you have shown us is that you will be, if you vote for you, an interim president. Interim is the one who occupies a square without having the position. Because, the truth, after the debate that we have had, that it has sent us in twenty_minutes, with the generalities that it has said, without going into detail, without having a single word, nor a single gesture for those Catalans that we do not think like you, for that part of the population, which is majority, which does not share the principles, the postulates of independence, seems to me, frankly, that it is quite regrettable. To point out that I have also listened very carefully when you referred to my specific question: are you prepared to negotiate with the only condition that is required in democracy? The only condition that is required in democracy is respect for the rules of play, respect for the law, respect in our case to the Statute of Catalonia, to the Constitution. And you have pointed out in a very clear way that what you are willing to do is to follow that which you have appointed as your own, Carles Puigdemont, to accept only the decisions made by the Parliament of Catalonia. And if those decisions are outside the scope of legality, if those decisions are to trample upon the rights of the Catalans that we feel also Spanish, that we are not independentists, as has happened in the previous legislature, will you also obey, only and exclusively the voice of the Parliament of Catalonia? The first thing I would have to do, Mr. Torra, if you really think you can be president of the Generalitat, is be brave...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.60.0	Mr. García Albiol, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.61.0	... is to be consistent and to say in a very clear way what it stands for and where it wants to move. Unfortunately, I have to say that your explanations have been entirely unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.62.0	It's Mr. Eduard Pujol's turn now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.63.0	Well, good-bye again. There's no more deaf than the one who doesn't want to listen. Mr. Albiol, I say there's no deafer than the one who doesn't want to listen. Candidate Torra's speech was flawless. [[remorse of the voice]] , has given all kinds of answers– yes, yes, yes–, has explained which country vol. So I don't understand your doubts. About the dialog. I have the feeling that you don't want to talk; you do it by dialog, you do it by talking. Because the offer of today's candidate Torra to the presidency and also the offer of President Puigdemont to the same election, from Brussels, they already talk about everything without any conditions. The proposal to speak is a proposal that you should take. You should say, "So much, talk, because it doesn't make us feel like it. If you were a strong state, in the sense not of an arbitrary justice but of a strong state, convinced of its values, you would say: "Listen to me, we hope for you that day in Moncloa. And Mr. Torra would take the AVE and go to Moncloa and talk about everything. So if they don't want to talk, they say: "We don't want to talk. It's here. It's his option. But if you want to talk about it, you don't put down the conditions of the laws, the standards... [[Widow's remorse.]] Why talk, talk, talk... do you know what you mean by talking? To speak means to listen to what one says, you answer, do the reply again... That's what you're going to talk about. And it's, maybe, talking, parlementary, in some positive way. So don't stop it, don't stop it, we talk; don't put conditions on it, we talk; accept to speak, already, to speak – to speak. More things. Mr. Torra, listen to me, today I'm very happy– I'm an optimist–; I'm very happy because the country has discovered someone who will be president for all, someone who has a country with 7_million_i_mig people in mind. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. As much as Xiulin, there is this remorse of funds, when you say 7_million_i_mig people are 7_million_i_mig people. And some of them seem not to have understood him, not to listen to him. You said what you said. A president of all. So, if you're saying he's a president of all, I don't understand how someone can get out here saying you're not going to be a president of all. If his will is to be the president of everyone, of a country of opportunity, I don't understand why they're holding him back. Very quickly. Mrs. Arrimadas, do you know what I'd like very much? One day we take the train, we take the train to Llobregat Hospital, we go to Tor de Querol, we go to Puigcerdà, to Ripoll, to Vic, and, yes, I don't stay for dinner, because I know the time we leave and I don't know what time we'll be back; I don't stay for dinner the day we decide to go to Tortosa by train, I don't stay for dinner in Barcelona, because I don't know what time we'll be back. And speaking of infrastructure, because you wanted to talk about infrastructure. The day we take the Manresa train to Lleida, the Renfe train, huh? They're the ones who don't do well... the day they take the train from Manresa to Lleida, and above all I don't have anyone to eat, because we won't know or know when we'll be back. And, before I finish, a reference to Mr. Domènech. Look, Mr. Domènech, I have a skinny one, and I appreciate it. [[remorse of the voice]] I'm looking very well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.64.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.65.0	...and they seem to hear us. I just want to say one thing: my reference to democracy is not to deny the country's problem of housing. I assure you, one thing doesn't invalidate the other. And in this sense, he wanted to cheer him up. I, to finish, Mr. Torra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.66.0	Mr. Pujol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.67.0	...– yes–, Mr. Torra, I will explain to you the fault of the donkey, the father and the son, and also – make me'memorial' – of Mr. Ford, who said... Mr. Ford is the master of Ford, who began to manufacture the Ford T and manufactured 15_million units of it. Mr. Ford said they didn't ask him for a vehicle, the first modern vehicle, they asked him for a horse that you corrected the most, and he, on the other hand, found a more flexible, revolutionary solution, which was to create the car. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.68.0	Well, once the statements of the representatives of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups have been completed, we shall now proceed to the vote. First we call it a vote. Before starting the vote the record now the voting delegations presented in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules, which are those of the deputies Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva and Antoni Comín, who have delegated their vote to Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and of the deputies Jordi Sánchez, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull and Carles Puigdemont, who have delegated their vote to Mrs Elsa Artadi, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. According to Article 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government and Article 150 of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, because the successful candidate invested has to obtain, as you know, the absolute majority. This choice, if given the case of this absolute majority, also implies approval of the government program. As announced and as you know, the vote will be made public by vote. It is therefore voted by alphabetical order, starting with the name of the Member from whom you came out by lot. Number 20 has come out, which corresponds to the deputy Jean Castel Sucarrat. Therefore, we will start for Castel and go, as we said, shouting one by one all the deputies and deputies. The second secretary and the third secretary, Mr. David Pérez and Mr. Joan García, will call them, and when you call them, please, they will rise up and answer "yes or no or declare that they will abstain. The members of the Bureau will vote at the end. So let's start the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.69.0	Jean Castel Sucarrat: "No. Antoni Castellà and Clavé : « Yes. Carles Castillo Rosique : « No. Anna Caula i Paretas : « Yes. David Cid Colomer: "No. Ferran Civit i Martí: "Yes. Narcis Clara Lloret : « Yes. Antoni Comín Oliveres. ( Sergi Sabria and Benito said: "Yes. ") Francesc de Dalmases i Thió : « Yes. Naomi of Sifré Street: "No. Fernando de Páramo Gómez : « No. Carmen de Rivera i Pla: "No. Adriana Delgado i Herreros : « Yes. Jenn Díaz Ruiz : « Yes. Xavier Domènech Sampere: "No. Francisco Javier Domínguez Serrano : « No. Najat Driuech Ben Moussa: "Yes. Chakir the Homrani Lesfar : « Yes. Assume Escarp Gibert: "No. Ramon Swordler i Parterisas: "No. Gemma Espigares Tribó : « Yes. Antonio Espinosa Cerrato : « No. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez : « No. Maialen Fernández Cabezas : « No. María del Camino Fernández Riol : « No. Munia Fernández-Jordan Celorio: "No. Maria Isabel Ferrer i Álvarez : « Yes. Lluís Font i Espinos : « Yes. Josep Maria Forné i Febrer : « Yes. Montserrat Fornells i Sole : « Yes. Irene Fornós Short : « Yes. Imma Gallardo Barceló : « Yes. Xavier García Albiol: "No. Gemma Geis i Carreras : « Yes. Anna Geli i España : « Oc. Pol Gibert Horcas: "No. Gerard Gómez del Moral i Fuster : « Yes. Dimas Gragera Velaz: "No. Eva Granados Galiano : « No. María Luz Guilarte Sánchez: "No. Lluís Guinó i Upirós : « Yes. Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé: "No. Miquel Iceta i Llorens: "No. Josep Maria Jové i Lladó : « Yes. Oriol Junqueras and Lives. ( Sergi Sabria and Benito said: "Yes. ") Maria Assumption Laïlla i Jou: "Yes. Saloua Laouaji Faridi : « Yes. Andrea Levy Soler: "No. Noemi Llauradó Sans : « Yes. Yolanda López Fernández: "No. Montserrat Macià i Gou : « Yes. Aurora Madaula i Giménez: "Yes. Marta Maderas i Mir: "Yes. Ernest Maragall i Mira: "Yes. Ignacio Martín Blanco : « No. David Mejía Ayra: "No. Raúl Moreno Montaña : « No. Marta Moreta Rovira: "No. Antoni Morral i Berenguer: "Yes. Jordi Munell i Garcia: "Yes. Blanca Victoria Navarro Pacheco: "No.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.70.0	Esther Niubó Cidoncha : « No. Joan Josep Nuet i Pujals: "No. Óscar Ordeig i Molist : « No. Mònica Palacín Paris : « Yes. Teresa Pallarès Piqué: "Yes. Ferran Pedret i Santos: "No. Óscar Peris and Ròdenas : « Yes. Carles Puigdemont and Casamajó. ( Elsa Artadi and Vila says: « Yes. ] Eduard Pujol i Bonell: "Yes. Xavier Quinquillà Durich: "Yes. Marta Ribas Frías : « No. Rut Ribas i Martí: "Yes. Carles Riera Albert : « Abstention. Josep Riera i Font : « Yes. Javier Rivas Escamilla: "No. Manuel Rodríguez de l'Hotellerie de Fallois : « No. David Rodríguez i González: "Yes. Santi Rodríguez i Serra : « No. Lorena Roldán Suárez : « No. Alicia Romero Llano : « No. Raül Romeva i Rueda. ( Sergi Sabria and Benito said: "Yes. ") Ferran Roquer i Padrosa: "Yes. Josep Rull and Andreu. ( Elsa Artadi and Vila says: « Yes. ] Sergi Sabria and Benito: "Yes. Mònica Sales de la Cruz : « Yes. Josep Lluís Salvató i Tenesa : « Yes. Natalia Sánchez Dipp : « Abstention. Alfonso Sánchez Fisac: "No. Jordi Sánchez and Picanyol. ( Elsa Artadi and Vila says: « Yes. ] Carlos Sánchez Martín: "No. Sergio Sanz Jiménez: "No. Susana Segovia Sánchez: "No. Sonia Sierra Infante: "No. Beatriz Silva Gallardo : « No. Maria Sirvent Scrig : « Abstention. Bernat Sole i Barril: "Yes. Jorge Soler González: "No. Marc Solsona and Aixalà: "Yes. Anna Tarrés i Campà: "Yes. Francesc Ten i Costa : « Yes. Jordi Terrades i Santacreu: "No. Quim Torra i Pla: "Yes. Jordi Tourull and Black. ( Elsa Artadi and Vila says: « Yes. ] Elisabeth Valencia Mimbrero : « No. María Francisca Valle Fuentes : « No. Francesc Viaplana Manresa : « Yes. Laura Vílchez Sánchez: "No. Ruben Wagensberg Ramon : « Yes. Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez : « No. Jordi Albert i Caballero : « Yes. Jessica Albiach Satorres: "No. Matías Alonso Ruiz : « No. Héctor Amello Montiu : « No. Vidal Aragonese Chicharro : « Abstention. Inés Arrimadas García : « No. Elsa Artadi i Vila: "Yes. Eva Baró Ramos : « Yes. Martin Eusebio Barra López : « No. Albert Batet i Canadell: "Yes. Susana Beltrán García : « No. David Bertran Román: "No. Laura Borràs and Castanyer: "Yes. Marina Bravo Sobrino: "No. Rafel Bruguera Batalla: "No. José María Cano Navarro: "No. Carlos Carrizosa Torres : « No. Magda Casamitjana and Aguilà: "Yes. Alba Vergés i Bosch: "Yes. Joan García González: "No. David Pérez Ibáñez: "No. Eusebi Campdepadrós and Pucurull: "Yes. José María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa : « No. Josep Costa i Rossello : « Yes. Roger Torrent and Ramío: "Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-12-0901.71.0	The result of the vote was the following: 66 votes' yes; 65 nos and 4 abstentions. Given, therefore, that Mr Quim Torra and Pla in this vote did not obtain the absolute majority required by Article 4.3 of the Law of Presidency of the Generality and Government, and in accordance with Article 4.4 of the Law, the candidate may submit to a _second debate and a _second vote, in which the simple majority will suffice. This second debate and this second vote will resume the session on May 14 at 10.30 a.m. The session's up.
