ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.1.0	Good afternoon. MPs, MPs, let's start the session. According to Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure, the reminders that you ask them to answer orally in the plenary will be substantiated to the gods of the morning, as is usual. Thus, in accordance with Article 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure, a change in the order of the day, which is the following: that points 4 and 5, relating to the question to the Government on the competitiveness of the Catalan economy and to the question to the Government on fiscal policy, may substantiate tomorrow morning – not this late, but early in the morning – before the debate on the protection of children begins. Therefore, points 4 and 5 of the order of the day would be substantiated tomorrow morning. Can I approve for absence? Are the groups not informed of this alteration? [[Pause.]] Yeah? All right. So the order of the day is changed. So let's get to the order of the day as planned, incorporating this change. Before, however, the record that, according to Rule 95 of the Rules, the deputies Raquel Sans and Adriana Delgado, for reasons of motherhood, have delegated their vote to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, and, thus, the deputy Monica Sales has delegated her vote, due to severe illness, to the deputy Albert Batet, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. On the other hand, the record also that Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva deputies have appointed Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights. [[Government inquiry into contamination, air quality and public health]] [[300-00059/12]] We now begin with the first item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about contamination, air quality and public health, formulated by the Socialist and Unites for Progress Parliamentary Group. The honourable Member Jordi Terrades explains the question. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.2.0	Counselor, counsel, we all know that practically all the contamination of the area is generated by humans with our activities. It is not surprising to say that the contamination of the area is the environmental cause of premature death in our country of almost 3,500 people; if we compare it with traffic accidents – which, by the way, this year have paid – they are practically divided more often, huh? , to situate the magnitude of the topic. This, therefore, has a huge human and economic cost. Hundreds of millions of euros in hours of work are lost due to the problems of atmospheric pollution; millions of dollars in healthcare expenses, associated with the phenomenon of atmospheric pollution. In fact, there have been studies that arrive to measure up to 3.5_percent of GDP the cost of health expenditure associated with air pollution problems. Last week, the World Health Organization, at the summit in Katowice, increased this xifra to 4% of the country's GDP. Last week, in an inquiry made by Mr Pujol to you on the roadblocks, he was talking about the tax deficit. We probably wouldn't agree on the calculation methodology, but, imagine, he was talking about 5_per_cent and I'm talking about 3 and a half percent of the expenditure that we could be able to get away from if we had active policies that were going to work, to fight against atmospheric contamination. Miri, we are not naive, we know that here there is confrontation of interests, especially when it comes to moving from words to facts: resistance to change, changes that are necessary, there are and will be. But when you're putting yourself up to twenty or thirty years, what we're pointing out is that we're starting a path, a path to a transition that, from our point of view, is unstoppable, a transition that we want just. He said that, at last week's summit, this report presented by the World Health Organization, endorsed by the leading experts on health and pollution issues, indicated that the health benefits derived from the fight against climate change would double the costs of global mitigation policies. We can also apply this in our country. In fact, Tedros Adhanom, who is the director general of WHO, said that the data already clearly demonstrates that the climate change is severely affecting people's lives and salvation. The damage to the salvation of contaminating energy sources – I think we could agree here – is so hard that I don't think there is any question of the profitability of replacing the least sustainable forms of producing energy and the least sustainable forms of maintaining transport – public, private, goods – and that we should address ourselves to obtaining energy by cleaner methods, right? In fact, the struggle against climate change and the energy transition that entails are not a cost, they are an opportunity. I say this because I would probably have to pass it on to his government partner, the Business and Knowledge Advisor..., remind him that this House approved a motion, three months ago, which indicated that it would be necessary to create a committee to debate and try to agree on an energy transition model in our country. It's been three months, we don't have news. I would not like to think that the government is closer to Trump's or Putin's positions expressed at last week's Poland summit than to the leaders of the European Union. I'm telling you why the Government of Spain has already presented its debts to Brussels and has already indicated to us that we need to walk in this sense. He also told us that nuclear power stations should be shut down in a 2028 horizon, and in Catalonia we have a lot of work to do. So I'm going back to claim this subject. And, my dear, the better quality of the area is one of the main challenges of this first quarter of a century. Two years later, a year and a half ago, I asked Councillor Rull about this subject – this will be the third – because we have the feeling, the conviction, the conviction that we have not just moved forward, that the Government of the Generality has not just implemented, does not lead this joint work process of the administrations in our territories to make decisions respecting this subject. They leave it all in the hands of the local administration, or basically all in the hands of the local administration, and then I repeat it 'there, from our point of view do not complete the resolutions of the Parliament. Air pollution has no boundaries. It is not a country of the European Union; I would say that it is not a country for what it does to the planet, nor is it a country in the municipal terms of our country – it is not, is it not? Therefore, the problem of the contamination of the area, of the quality of the area, is not exclusively a problem of the metropolitan area of Barcelona, it is already a problem of Catalonia. We just have to follow the auto stations to see it. By the way, speaking of automatic stations, not all measure the same things. We have no news either of a young man who approved this Parliament in the previous parliamentary term who instructed the Government that at the end of three years all the stations we have measuring the area in Catalonia are automated. We don't know if this plan is going to bring him forward, if there's a presupposition behind it. Because we have a methodology problem at the manual stations: in mid-November, the data from generation to age was published; we still don't know what happened in the second semester of this year. And, therefore, it is very complicated, it is very difficult to work objectively to have reliable and reliable data about what is going on in the country's vicinity. And, besides, of the manual data, my parliamentary group didn't have to rely on it, because statistically we've proven that things are measured that aren't exactly parameterized from the point of view of mathematical statistics, huh? Therefore, we ask you to make us concrete if what Parliament approved on your day the government will complete, it will not complete, if there is any plan, and, if they do, that they will teach us and explain to us what the temporality will be. And then I want to talk to him about another issue – that I have already advanced that my parliamentary group voted against this aspect of climate change – which is the CO2 emission tax on fuel vehicles. We voted against it because we still believed and still believed that it was not an environmental tax, but that it was a tax that more quickly had the tendency to recapture, it was a flat-rate tax. It was not an imposition of that which I have listened to you many times to say, that it is the polluter who pays. Listen, therefore, who makes more kilometers, who has certain models of car, therefore, contaminates more. And, therefore, an imposition of these characteristics, with this model of flat rate, we do not share it and we do not follow it sharing. Now, I said this, you, that they pushed him..., that we don't understand, considering that this is an aspect of the Climate Change Act, that the Constitutional Court has not raised the suspension..., what does the Government intend to do? Because every time some member of the Government of Catalonia talks and thinks about these questions, it is to delay the application of this tax. Therefore, we would also like a certain degree of compliance with these questions. Other issues related to this inquiry I'll ask you or do to the second part of the inquiry, because I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.4.0	Mr President, Councillor, Councillor, Member, Members and Members, thank you. Mr. Terrades, the truth is that the music of your inquiry sounded good to us, because you posed on the table, so you're afraid that we'll be worried about the department, the government, which I'm sure we share. And in any case, now, on the second return, I'm sure we'll get more into practice and see if there are real fears, I insist, concrete ones in which we can work from the government, logically with your personal help and that of your parliamentary group. We share that one of the main objectives of this government, and I would say that of society, it is fighting against climate change. I have expressed on many occasions that, effectively, we try to focus all the government action of the department on this fight against climate change, whether it be infrastructure and mobility policies, whether it be territorial policies or environmental policies and sustainability. Someone might think that fighting climate change is just a part of the Environment and Sustainability Secretariat. We understand it as the main objective we have as a department, as a government, but more as a department and as a government, as a society. And we mark all our actions in which they are the objectives of sustainable development. I have heard myself say on more than one occasion: policies that favour the quality of the area are part, in a cross-cutting way, of some of these sustainable development goals that we have taken as our main objective of the political action of our department, energy transition, and we absolutely agree. We have been ambitious with the terms that we must complete as the country in this energy transition. 2030 the 50_per_cent of our energy production has to be made up of renewable energy sources, and 2050 we want 100_per_cent. They are objective that they place us in the first division of the compromised countries with concrete terms respecting this energetic transition. Commitments arising, for example, from the agreements of the Paris summit, of the COP21, in which we were there. We were not as we were, yet, but obviously we were invited in one way or another by various international organizations to which we belonged; we were there and we were there. I, beyond this summit of the COP21 in Paris, we continued to feel there. I, for example, personally, as a territorial and sustainability advisor, attended the Global Climate Action Summit, which was held in San Francisco a few months ago – now I have lost count, must be a couple of months ago. And precisely who called it, this Global Climate Action Summit, was the Jerry Brown, the current governor of California, and called it precisely to show that there are policies to develop on the part of the states, in this case, the United States, but also from the different metropolitan regions of the world and from the regions in the international regional concept, in which we fit as a country, beyond what states mark, huh? In Jerry Brown, governor of California, he called a summit that he demonstrated was the lack of courageous policies, decided, on the part of the Federal Government of the United States, and, therefore, on the part of Trump; or so, I did not place us in Trump's theses, because we precisely went personally to participate in this Global Climate Action Summit. I was basically talking about circular economy there. And we've also been to Katowice's grave. And we've been there indirectly, too, I insist, not yet as it is, but we've been there, we've been following your debates and we've been involved, and I'm sure, from the realization of these debates, we're also taking action to develop from the department and from the government. You talk to me about all the stations and checkpoints – which are not just stations – about the quality of the area, its automation, being able to access it, and trusting not to trust it – that I already leave it to science and technology. In any case, we do, indeed, have stations and have, I insist, many points of control over most of our country's polluting activities. And I recommend that you download an app that we've developed from the Department of Territories, the Air app. There are many checkpoints and there is a daily update of these measures of air quality. I'd say it's useful, it's practical, everything we can go further, obviously. Not all stations measure the same components, because, depending on the type of industry that is in one place or another, they measure some or other components, but in any case, I would say that we go a step forward in everything that is measured, check stations and check points and information around the quality of the area. Reducing the contamination of our cities and metropolitan areas is – and in this we agree – a reversal, an reversal in the future of the planet. We are fully aware of this responsibility and have long been compromised. And I insist that we show it not only with words, but with facts. We have worked very hard, for example, with the Barcelona Assembly and the Barcelona Metropolitan Area, which are leading players in this struggle to achieve a quality of the area that makes our cities more habitable. And, in this equation – I thought that I would talk about this, too, or that I would talk more about it, maybe it will be used in the second part of its intervention –..., public transport forms an essential part of this equation about the quality of the area, we have expressed it on more than one occasion. Just a parenthesis. The decision that was made last week or not decided at the ATM's Board of Directors respect public transport rates for 2019, is to say, the maintenance of 2018 tariffs, for us is a bad decision, and so I have expressed it publicly. For us it is a difficult irresponsibility, this freezing or this maintenance of 2018 rates, so that in the end we would not add money that was dedicated precisely to a plan of betters that must serve us to complete the standards on the quality of the air that marked us by the European Union. Some standards that you know that, at a certain time, they were in question and that they entailed that, in order to avoid precisely a fine from the European Union, we made a summit, a summit that, finally, was a summit that I would almost define as historical, we brought together everyone who has to see with the governance of the metropolitan area, a little more beyond the metropolitan area, because it is the area-40, which we call, and in which they took a series of well and well concrete measures around the quality of the area. And I insist that a very important package of measures refers to public transport, and to be able to develop them we made this plan of improvements, plan of improvements that required 75_million extraordinary euros, 25 for each administration. The 25 of the State have not arrived, they are about to arrive; in fact, we have already counted them, we have donated them for lost. That's why we don't want the 40 that have to come, outside, so we can, so, keep these 2018 rates. But in any case, the 25th of the state hasn't arrived. And the other two packages, 25 of the Generality and 25 of the assembly, these have indeed arrived and we have made them serve, but, in view of the coming year, we wanted to continue this plan of better. Without doubt, the maintenance of tariffs is an irresponsibility that puts at risk these agreements that we were able to establish at this summit on air quality. From that infringement procedure – it was the motto for which we celebrated that summit – it was asked that there are no reinforced measures to reduce nitrogen oxide concentrations in this area-40. The measures were transferred to the European Commission on various occasions, at various meetings that were produced at the length of 2017 and 2018, and what is more important: the evaluation of the measures was favorable. And at this point we are reporting monthly to the Commission the degree of compliment of these measures. Therefore, we can talk generically about the quality of the area, but we are reporting monthly, we are controlled by the Commission respecting the quality of the area to the conurbation, to the area-40 of the metropolitan area of Barcelona, and we have not been fined. Attention, we have not been fined to the difference of other countries, such as Germany, France or Regne Unit, which have been brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union for the Commission and have fined them. In our case, they have valued labor and of the moment– of the moment–, because, I insist, we are monitored monthly, the consignment of infraction does not advance, always conditioned, but, to the compliment of the conditions that we proposed. Therefore, from the outset, we have done our dues in the metropolitan area, with this area-40 of Barcelona. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it's the deputy's turn, again, Mr. Jordi Terrades. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.6.0	Counselor, I am glad; I already knew that I had gone to the conference that was organized in California. I'm just begging you, huh? , what do you tell your advisor to organize the meeting of the parliamentary groups here to discuss the National Pact for the Energy Transition of Catalonia, eh? Because if we don't, we'll make salt. Because sometimes I have doubts, don't I? , if you define this as incompliments or inaction of the Government. I would like to stress again the inadequacy of the measured parameters. I've got it too, this app, I've got it downloaded. I look at it day, day too, and today we're in green all over the place. But we insist, we believe that we can evaluate in real time all the contaminant components that we can hold in the area not only in the metropolitan area of Barcelona. We also have other metropolitan areas in Catalonia, with problems different from those in the metropolitan area of Barcelona. I'm talking about Tarragona, with a very important concentration of chemical industry, right? When I told you that we doubt the government for its shortcomings, I was talking to you about questions as concrete as the deployment of the Public Transport Finance Act to Catalonia, because you try to avoid this debate as much as you can. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, no. Yeah, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I was the one who was wrong, huh? It turns out that you, in order to improve the subsidies for public transport in the metropolitan area of Barcelona and the city of Catalonia, will do something very interesting, which is not to vote in favour of the general assumptions of the State. Clearly, you are complaining that no more resources are coming, and this you perfectly know is in the general assumptions project of the State. We have a certain mutism about the calendar of investments that correspond to you and that affect public transport. There's a Ciutadans Movement tomorrow; there was one of ours back there, so that we could put these issues into practice. He was talking to me about the work with the metropolitan area. No, no. Yeah. No, if the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona and the joints of which would be the second crown, like the Vallesos, above all the East, the work is done. But you came here and explained to us that since the summit that took place on March 6, 2017, a series of protocols have been followed. It is not the feeling that they have either the Barcelona City Council or the Barcelona Metropolitan Area or the Eastern Valley Councils. Do you know how long it took the follow-up committee to assess the conclusions of the summit that was held in Palau de Pedralbes on March 6, 2017? Twenty-one months, counselor; he met last week. And most of the actions, not to mention almost all, that were agreed there have been implemented because the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, the Barcelona Assembly and other joints of the second crown have put resources on the table. We are still waiting for the Government of the Generality to put in place. Certainly, counselor, we talk a lot about the quality of the area in general, but we did not listen to the government talking about the quality of the area inside the buildings. And the European Union has begun to indicate that we have a problem, because workers spend many hours in buildings at work centres. We don't know if in the public buildings of the Generalita there is any kind of measure to be applied to improve the interior of the buildings, we don't know if they have studies of construction materials or paintings... I tell you why this is a topic we'll find ourselves on from then on, right? You were talking about the climate change, and I'm back on this subject, linked to the emission reduction. I insist, counselor – I said it the other day not in public, but today I do – it is necessary to activate one of the provisions of the Catalonia Climate Change Law, which is the label of this law, which is the label of the carbon assumptions, which is the label of the reduction of contaminant emissions by sectors, which is the constitution of the committee of climate change experts. This is a matter that corresponds to the government and the assembly of parliamentary groups in the chamber: to agree on the seven people who must make up this committee. Thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, it's the counselor's turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.8.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, counselor, honourable Members, well, now I have some other evidence of these 40_millions falling from the cell, I mean, from the assumptions of the State; I had the press release of the day that Mayor Colau told me and now you have said it. I say this because no one from the Government of the State or from the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of Heritage has referred to me about the turn of the increase in the contribution to the ATM, no one – no one –; on the contrary, I was told, "Listen, this is very difficult, because, if we increase it to you, it will mean that we have to increase it to Madrid and Valencia." And, therefore, I have no reference or explanation. We, in any case, ask you to start working, you can, because the Ministry of Development has the secretary of organization of your party, it is in which we pay 25_million euros of the year passed..., go, of the year in progress – it has not ended –; there are a few days, still, in which we could pay this payment, 25_million euros, that should have entered the State to complete the plan of better than we agreed to have a better air, an air of better quality in the area-40. I insist, don't I? , EUR 25_million. There's still a few days left, in disbelief, because I'm filling it out. Why, if not, how am I supposed to think there's gonna be 40 million if the 25 million of this year haven't even been paid yet? Even so, I insist, huh? We gave them for lost; but in any case, we did if you could. Last week, yes, we brought together the Evaluation and Follow-up Committee of the Accord for the better quality of the area to the Barcelona conurbation; we did not gather it before among other things, also for the intervention of the State through 155. And the degree of compliment of the actions is important both in the areas of communication and diffusion – which are important – as in the areas of mobility or industry. For example, one of the measures with the most impact is the limitation of unlabelled tourism and motorcycles to the intra-round zone from the '1 of generation of 2020, from just over a year ago, and also what will be produced in episodes of atmospheric contamination, in environmental episodes, from the '1 of generation of 2019. At these times we are already prepared to apply the restriction, if it is that they are giving the conditions for an environmental episode. That's what we talked about at the summit last week. It is also expected that March 2019 – March 2019, we have date – a second summit will be held to make a new balance of actions and give a new boost to the measures, as announced by the same secretary of Environment and Sustainability, Mrs Marta Uprà, at this meeting last week. I insist that they are commitments that we take not only from the Environment and Sustainability Secretariat, but from the whole side of the department. More things we've done with regard to air quality. We've withdrawn the diesel vehicle bonus. We are subsidizing the purchase of taxis and commercial vehicles to replace the private fleet and make it cleaner. We are introducing prescriptions in the Generality's departures from the purchase of vehicles, to the public fleet, so as to ambientize the fleets. The Action Plan for the deployment of electrical vehicle infrastructure is in progress. We've made and are making business development plans. With regard to industrial emissions, more than the compliment of the directive was approved by Decree 139/2018, this same year, to strengthen the environmental intervention regime in those establishments where potentially polluting activities of the atmosphere are developed, etc. With regard to the agreements of the March 2017 summit, you asked for the degree of compliment, and I want to give you a sifra. They are measures, I insist, agreed between all the parties to a summit that I have previously described as historic because, effectively, therefore, we were able to succeed in a single table and, before the very serious problem and the threat of a fine from the European Union, we drew up a text, an agreement that we are completing. How many initiatives and commitments have been adopted? 1,046 commitments and initiatives were adopted, all listed, and the degree of compliment is 40_per_cent. Therefore, we are not satisfied, although we know that there is much work to be done. The quality of the area forms an intrinsic part of our agenda: not only from day to day, from the daily agenda, but also from the modernizing agenda. I say that because I always explain that one of the main pots of this modernizing agenda is the winery. You know perfectly well the project of the winery. In fact, this morning we got together the toll crew, where we talked about the winery. And being able to bring this wine forward also in a homogeneous way and again with the participation of the government of the State sense dubious will help to have a better quality of the area. You were talking to me about the feeling of the municipalities of the Eastern Valley. I, who is soc de Sant Cugat and who have been related to his gathering, Vallès Occidental – not Vallès Oriental –, must say that the measures that we are taking to restrict the transit there we have adopted, and therefore we consider, therefore, very positively the agreements of the summit of the past year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the promotion of the rural world and the high mountains]] [[300-00064/12]] The next question is about the promotion of the rural world and the high mountain, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The question was raised by Mr Javier Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.10.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Director General, Members, Members of Parliament, forty years ago Serrat composed a song that began with: « Hanging from a ravine / sleeping my white people / under a sky that, by force / never seeing the sea, / forgot to dream, right? Unfortunately, we are in the 21st century and the song continues to have the same effect as at that time. It's been a while, but the problems are perpetuated, they're enquired, aren't they? When we register this petition, under the title "the rural world i l'alta montanya, automatically, as a Pavlovian association, so..., I do not say it as a criticism, eh? But he automatically went to Agriculture, didn't he? I don't think it's bad. Agriculture, livestock, the primary sector as a whole is a fundamental part of the territory and the rural world, but it is not the only one. We asked you to change to Territori. Why? Because what we want to talk about is the vertebration of the territory in the 21st century. The past... I don't think we're here to make notaries of what we were, but to be captains of what we want to become in the future, in the 21st century, because we're already here. That's why we're asking, we're asking you to change to Territori. I want to thank the counselor for accepting the challenge, for taking the glove and for being here to talk about the future, which has to be a concept of citizenship indistinctly where we live, whether in the rural world, in a village or in a city. We're in a society in the age of big data and we can't leave behind, we have to take this train before we escape and it's too late. Look, counselor, we've been talking for decades about population flows, depopulation, and, therefore, poverty, because the biggest asset a society has are its people, their people, aren't they? Depopulation, in addition to a problem, is a consequence, it is the consequence of inequality. The other day he spoke to a woman and, angry, poor, he said to me: "My daughter, all her life studying, and now she wants to live the people again. I was lovingly saying that. No one's going to love her daughter more than she does herself. But she said it because she certainly knew what we were talking about, she already knew what she had suffered, the limitations of living in the rural world, living in a village, didn't she? I think this is the first input to our particular or small big data, or little data, that we have to share you and me: the limitations of infrastructure services condition the lives of citizens. I live in a village of seventeen neighbors. If we saw it from afar, it is a small town, a messy core of black roofs and dry stone walls that seems like an ancient avalanche would have left in a small plain that lies between the top of Crodos and the river Garona. One day I was talking to an older man from there, from the village, a good man– Rousseau said that when he wanted to go find the good savage, he went to the field to look for it, didn't he? – and I asked him why they had formerly made houses there, why they had so complicated their lives and had come to live in such an isolated place, so hidden, so hostile, didn't they? , to say it in some way; if they had been looking for the views, the silence, the winter sun, what they were looking for there. He smiled at me and answered me, with much quietness and with much reason. He said to me: "We came here for work. Our work was livestock and the fields associated with that livestock. And in an agricultural economy, of course, at a time when there was neither transport nor just communication, they had to be close to their source of work. And so they filled the slopes of the mountains with small villages to be near the workstations. I think it's the second input we have to get into our big data, right? : the roots of the villages are not only the grandparents in the cemetery, they are above all the work. And the third input of my personal big data: I live here from Monday to Friday, because I'm from Vielha, and, of course, going up and down are four_hours away and four_hours back. Counselor, we need to talk to other administrations to improve communications. You don't have to worry about me, I'm an eventual; but if everyone comes to live in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, there will come a time when you won't be able to live here. Because there is such a pressure, a hyperinflation on the ground, on the prices of housing, on the environment, on the infrastructures, that we all lose: the rural world because it depopulates and the urban world because it is saturated. All this trouble is not new, I am not inventing garlic soups; this comes from the times of the industrial revolution, but it is that we are now in a new revolution, in the revolution of communications. We can relocate industries, we can create new knowledge economies, and for that we need the Administration to intervene and correct the natural imbalances of the market. I admit it's not easy, huh? I recognize you, counselor, and you can count on our help for everything you need. Lenin said there's no greater force than inertia, right? , and inertia plays against the rural world. It is a difficult multifactorial process, I repeat that I recognize it and that we support it. But it's possible, it's a challenge and we all have to overcome it. In Scotland, France and Finland they are getting it, with legislation, with concrete actions. I give you an example: in Lapland, which is an extreme climate and a very complicated landscape for life, the population density is eight inhabitants per square kilometer; in the Pallars Sobirà it is five. I think they strike comparisons, don't they? I am aware that we need to reflect calmly, humbly and pragmatically on our territory. I live in a region of ten thousand inhabitants, in the Vall d'Aran. I'm aware that a neurosurgeon can't come in at every level, but we do need to have quick communications with a referral hospital. I'm aware that we can't go to every university, but I'm aware that we need to get better at our children's scholarships. I am aware that we cannot have an airport, a road that is still fast. I am from a land that is reached by a tunnel, which works to overcome isolation. In the anthem of Aran, the first verse says: « Aqueres montanhes, / how nautes they are, / m'impèishen to see/ least loves to where they are, which translated means: « Aranian mountains, / how high they are, / prevent me from seeing/ my loves where they are. It is an ancient story of a shepherdess who laments because his boyfriend is on the other side of the mountain, in Aragon. We have to work to overcome the resulting isolations and inequalities. You're talking about Slovenia, but I didn't come here to talk about Slovenia. I can tell you about Mateja and Vito, two teenage friends who were Slovenians and lost their lives in that damn Balkan war. You know a reference Slovenian, which is the Goiat bear. But I have not come here to talk to you about Goiat, I have come to talk to you about other names of my own: Armand, Ramon, Èric, mountain herders who are suffering the consequences of a mismanagement of the introduction of wild fauna. I would also like to talk to you, Counsellor, about prices, about the fall in agricultural income, because it does not translate into the shelves of supermarkets. Payers have to sell at 0.40_euros the apples, to say the least, but then at the supermarket they are at 1.80. Where is the price control chain, counselor? I also want to talk to you about the Russian veto. It caused a surplus of sweet fruit. The prices of collapse. I would like to ask you... when I asked how much has been sold from our trade embassies, the answer has been 'zero'. The solution they give us is to tear down the trees, because that will bring down the stocks and regulate the markets. What is the use of these embassies, counselor, for the rural world? I would also like to talk to you about the intensification of crops, which is liberating land. The forest grows again, it is colonizing almost everything; however, we are sending pellets to Italy but here we do not consume them, we continue to consume oil that we import, right? Where is energy self - sufficiency, counselor? I want to talk to you about mountain farmers, who raise organic meat with a lot of difficulty, with a lot of work, with a lot of effort, but that when they take their animals to the slaughterhouse, as the slaughterhouse is not ecological, they have to go up to a truck and take them to Binéfar, in Aragon. It's not logical, Counselor. I would like to ask why they do not simplify and adapt procedures to reality. I would also like to talk to you about the danger of tourism monocultures, the issue of snow, mountain tourism. It is the only industry we have; we have to pamper it and we have to preserve it, but it is a dangerous monoculture: it has a very big seasonality problem. Why don't we talk, counselor, about broadband, about other tax incentives, about communications that can complement one another with other companies that guarantee... 365_days a year? I want to talk to you about the road plans, which are abandoned ten years ago; about the PUOS and local cooperation funds, which disappeared years ago; about housing policies, which do not exist in the rural world. There is not a single housing policy in the rural world. But it goes beyond that: that is, the gentleman who lives in Barcelona but who wants to fix the kitchen of his grandparents' house, when he goes to l'ajuntament, then he finds that they say to him: "Oh, but you are in an area of action within a partial plan, and you have to do so many roles, so many procedures, so many complications, that in the end the house will end up falling. We have to legislate better, counselor. I would also like to talk to you about the Occitan Act, which is adopted and is not being deployed either by regulation or by budget. Of the natural parks, which are created but which do not have any master plans or plans of use; it is window policy, counselor. I want to talk to you about the water, which is the life of the paupers, but there is a Segarra-Garrigues that evolves very slowly and with a totally overflowing cost. We have to manage better, counselor. From the Mountain Law of the year 83, which in the year 2011 announce a new, but we are in 2018 and the warmest, to l'aiguera. The rural world, counselor, is more than just goyesco shows of rataphia and diatonic accordions. The rural world does not want to be the Yogui bear in Yellowstone Park; they want to be citizens of full right on equal terms with the people living in the city. Anyway, counselor – I'm finished – I ask you two things. We have many tools: use them. Use them, put yourself to work for the rural world and for the world as a whole. And also – the second – I ask you to look to the future with abstraction. The rural world only has the limits we want to set it. The rural world is changing, we can't help it. The Dutch have a saying that says: "I can't avoid the wind, but I can put windmills.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.11.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.12.0	The solutions are in your hand. The rural world is at the operating table. Work so it doesn't end in the... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the deputy and he continues to speak for a few moments.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. It's the return to the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.14.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, Counsellor, Mr Javier Rivas, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... Mr Javier Rivas, many thanks for your inquiry. Now not the location. Where are we? [[Pause.]] There – forgive me – thank you. He made me an interesting bar, huh? ; strange but interesting. Because, yes, it has touched upon many fears that affect the development policies of the comarques of the Upper Pirinius and the Aran; in short, of the comarques of the Mountanya. The truth is that, for the title he posed to his inquiry, that of the rural world and high mountain, effectively, therefore, as the government we did not know whether it was attributed to the Department of Agriculture or to another. You already specified that you wanted me to answer it myself. And we, enchanted; we, like the Department of Territories and Sustainability, after extraterrestrial life... no, it was a joke from a previous inquiry. We are delighted that everything you refer to – now that I am serious – falls on us to the promotion policies of the territory. Because, effectively, we are the Department of Lands and Sustainability, and we have a long tradition in everything that refers to mountain policies. So much so that when we were not yet the Department of Territory and Sustainability, but we were the Department of Territorial Policy and Public Works, for one band, and the Department of Environment, for another, the Department of Territorial Policy and Public Works, there was already a general direction of mountain; a direction of mountain general occupied by Ms. Montserrat Candini, which developed, therefore, a very effective mountain policy. And we, like the Department of Lands and Sustainability, have recovered that Directorate General of Muntanya, occupied by Mr. Albert Alins in the previous legislature – I want to thank him for his assistance today, in this inquiry – and in this legislature we wanted to go a little further, including. I know that the Directorate General of Mr Albert Alins is of Muntanya and Litoral Policies, they understand that they are two territorial areas in which to have specific and concrete observances. And, therefore, we are delighted that this inquiry has fallen into the Department of Lands and Sustainability. But I insist that the bar that made me lock you're afraid that maybe I won't answer. We will see if in the following motion, therefore, logically, and with the collection of the rest of the departments – because he has spoken inclusive of themes of culture–, therefore, we give an answer. I'm sure it'll be that way, and the deputy or deputy you're wearing this next young man is sure he can get into the matter. The government, Mr Rivas, has a very long tradition in the development of specific policies for mountain areas, from the approval – you said – of Law 2/1983, of high mountain, and above all from the deployment of a very useful tool: the regional plans of mountain, which so much meant to these territories. The changes that have occurred in society, the expansion of services, the new technologies – you yourself refer to digital policies, to economic globalisation – as well as the way in which the public sector, which has growing subsidiarity, has also followed the principles of transparency or citizen participation, have led to what we could call "a certain worn-out of long-running policies, such as the case of the mountain, which have to be reviewed and put up with in order to make them more effective. So, from this wear and tear, we've been working on it for a while, and we wanted to work on adapting there. And, yes, indeed, the department has been immersed in a process of analysis and debate for the definition of a new mountain policy, which, despite the delays caused by the stars of the economic crisis and the complex political circumstances, is in a very advanced state. You already know that in the last parliamentary term the drafting and processing of a new law of the mountain is started, that it is not that you remain only in a debate, but that we will get to approve it. The execution council was approved of the initial memoir of this new law, and if it did not follow for the government's termination, the dissolution of the Parliament and the call for elections of 21 December – the intervention, in short, of 155–, I am sure that this Parliament of Catalonia has begun to debate it. And in these moments, then, what are we doing? Continue, as it cannot be otherwise, advancing in its writing. We have already made a period of consultations, a debate with the participation of the communities involved and the different departments of the Generality with competences that are relevant to this territory, to the high mountain, to the mountain of the High Pyrenees and the Aran, but also to all the areas and regions of the mountain. You know that we have enclaves that an a priori might think that they do not correspond with this legislation, but that they are, therefore, called mountain municipalities and, therefore, are also included in this legislation. And I must announce that, even with the provisional state of work, it is possible to move forward. We would like to warn you that the object of the law will establish a set of measures and instruments that promote social and economic development, as well as the better quality of life of the people of the mountainous territories of Catalonia. In short, the promotion of the rural world and the high mountain, which is what you ask in your inquiry. How do we want to do it? They recognize the specificities and the climatic and horrific conditions, the natural and cultural values of this territory, and the role they have in the territorial balance of the country's conjunct, too. The objectives of this set of policies, measures and instruments of this new legislation are aimed, first of all, at promoting the establishment of permanent residents – you also refer to your inquiry – and also at promoting the democratic growth of mountain municipalities. This is a measure..., I wanted to mention it first because it's the fixation and the demographic growth, to secure the population. Remember that the High Pirine and the Aran are an 18_percent of the country's surface with only a 1_percent of its population, huh? If we don't just go to the High Pyrenees and the Aran, but at the conjunction of mountain communities, we have a few percentages that, in fact, still see more of this huge gap between territory and population: a 46_percent of the territory with only a 4.5_percent of population. Indeed, a very focused GDP in the primary industry, not only in tourism – you spoke of the monoculture of tourism. We have a GDP based very much on the primary industry and also on tourism. There's a lot of public enterprises. That's a double-sized gun, huh? Why, for a band, that most of the activity, the economic dynamism of these communities, is based on public enterprises, it's a double-sized weapon, huh? But I would like to remind you of direct investments through the department, such as, for example, infrastructures that are on the march, like the Tresponts tunnel, pushing towards the Seu d'Urgell, but also the constant investments of entrepreneurs like Railways of the Generality in the ski resorts, and – very important – what is the management of natural parks, on the margins of which it is logically managed from other departments, eh? One of the most important economic referents of some mountain regions are their hospitals, for example, right? But I insist that this is a double-sized weapon. Also one of the points – and the desire to point out in second place – of this new legislation will, precisely, be to encourage the implementation and development of economic initiatives, which, as it cannot otherwise be, fit into the principles of sustainability. A third point of this new legislation will be to preserve and value the appropriate resources because there are strategic territorial actions. A fourth point: we want to minimize the peripheral territorial position – this does have to do with infrastructure – of mountain areas and strengthen their connectivity, their internal networks. Also – a _five point – adjust the set of public policies and the provision of services to mountain ranges. And, finally, we want to enhance, we want to be careful, we want to encourage the fusion and profits of a contemporary society like the one we have in our country with the values and the coolest customs of a territory it has, precisely in these values and coolest customs, one of its most prized benefits. And, in parallel with these more theoretical aspects of standard changes, which I insist that our department are responsible for – it is up to this new legislation, this new law of the mountain – to continue to move forward. It has continued to move forward, Mr Rivas, always depending on the presuppositional possibilities, as it cannot otherwise be, in more concrete or very concrete actions, which have a positive impact on the areas of the mountain. And I want to point out five, very quickly. A program of subsidies to local mountain councils for the best vein and rural paths. He's not abandoned, he's on his way. By September 2018, this program had an import of 2.98_million euros. And the intention, the department's will is to increase this amount, if it is possible to negotiate it and approve it, on the premises of 2019. An inter-departmental financing plan for access to nuclei. An agreement between various departments that we completed in the previous legislature, of which Constellera Borràs and Consteller Rull were, in large part, protagonists, together with Constellera Serret, and which has a global import – little joke – of 29,5_million euros, of which 9_million euros are financed by the Department of Territories and sustainability. So this isn't abandoned, it's on the move. Or the Strategic Table of Mountain Stations or the reinforcement of the IDAPA, which you know well because it forms part of your board of directors. I am sure that in his intervention, in the answer that I can give, we can go into more detail in all these measures that we have taken for some time now as the government of the Generality to the benefit of the Comarques de Muntanya. Thank you very much, honourable Member. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the return, again, of the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.16.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, thank you for the explanation. I've told you about big data – big data –; communication is not unidirectional, it's global. You have answered me not as a counselor, but as if I had asked a question to Google : you have given me data. I already have the data. And let's disagree with all the data, but it's just boring with data... I'm going to give you a data that's definite: 80-80. 80_per_cent of the population lives in the urban world, while 80_per_cent of the territory is rural. All this tells me, we're not going to go in and argue because we don't have time, that they're doing..., I think it's a wake-up call: something we shouldn't be doing right, because, if not, this data wouldn't be like that. And, besides, what's worse is that it's a trend, that is, it's not a point data, it's a curve with a history and a consequence, just like a Pert diagram. What I've asked you is certainly very odd. I understand that you don't have to have an answer about apples or lambs. No, no, I respect that, I've already brought it to you. At the beginning of the speech I told him that what I wanted to do was to put the issue on the table, to open up a space for reflection, that we have a problem and we all have to find a solution to it. You tell me everything's all right. I don't think so. If it were okay, we wouldn't be in this data or these trends, would we? Tell me about IDAPA. IDAPA last year had 1_million..., well, this year it has 1_million_euro budget. Yes, yes, indeed, it is a powerful investment on your part. But when I look on the web at the memory... there's no memory, I don't know what they're doing. The only thing I see is that in chapter I there is a 60_per_cent budget execution, and the other is four little books of what interest... But, well, that is, it's not about putting political commissioners in the territories, but about putting things that are effective, that work, that solve the real problems that people in the rural world have. You live in a roundabout of your process, and we go round and round and round. But what I'm asking is that we stop spending fuel and time, because we have really serious problems. And the train passes once, and when it has passed, it will be gone. What you're telling me is that you already know what the problem is and that you are even aware of the solution: the solution is... I share it: when a person has a fever he goes to the doctor. He gives you a treatment, but he tells you: "Go take the temperature. If the treatment doesn't work, we'll have to change it, or we'll have to change the doctor, I don't know what to tell you anymore, right? No one loses weight knowing that gominolas become fat; what is needed is to stop eating gominolas and change strategy, change course. I'm done, counselor, because the only thing I intend to do is keep it in mind. Keep it in mind and know that we are here, on this subject, as many others, and that if you need our help we will help you. But I end up a little like I started with Serrat's song, don't I? Serrat ends his song by saying: « Escape, tender people / that this land is sick / and do not wait tomorrow / what did not give you yesterday. / Take your mule, your female and your harness/ and follow the path of the Hebrew people, / because if it's up to you to cry/ it's better off in front of the sea. But I will allow myself to correct the teacher: if it is up to me to cry, it will be in my mountains. I won't give up. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.17.0	When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.18.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, I understand this about the Serrat; the question of the gominols has not just heard it, I recognize it – I have not just heard it. The truth is that I think we were doing well in the first part of his inquiry – we were doing well. I insist that you have put all the elements on the table that allow a serious debate, and I hope that the motion following this inquiry will be so, seriously, and that we can go into detail. Many of the issues that I had explained before I did not relate to them only as a physical figure of Google, but I related them as a knowledgeer of the policies that have developed since the Department of Territorial Policy at its time and now the Department of Territory and Sustainability respects the mountains, respects my comprehensive knowledge of the mountain ranges, of the leaders of these institutions to the mountain ranges, of their mayors, of their people. I'm used to doing a lot of miles across the territory, but if there's a couple of places where I have a special willingness to go and observe, one is in the midst of the mountain regions of our country. And so, you live there, in the Val d'Aran, actually, it goes through the tunnel – you can also go through the port of Bonaigua – but we often go there, huh? And we know each other a lot. And I insist that it does not relate only what we have done and what we intend to do, but that it does so with the will to deepen it, and I insist that I hope that your next young lady has the seriousness that allows us to deepen in this debate. You yourself have spoken of trends, of global trends respecting a phenomenon that is that of the progressive implantation of each time more world population – I insist, it is a global trend – to cities and metropolitan areas. It's a global trend, it's not just going to Catalonia; if you just went to Catalonia, you'd say, "We have a problem, but it's going on at the global level. So much so that the United Nations has developed a program, which is the program, through its UN-Habitat agency, to talk about this global trend, to which we, in this program, are also engaged, and "engaged in the good sense of the word, because one of the instruments that put on the table these programs, basically that of the New Urban Agenda, we have already adopted as the Government". We have made a whole set of approvals, structures and will to pull this new urban agenda forward, with the participation, too, of the political groups of this chamber; a new urban agenda that wants to relate this global trend that people every time go to urban spaces and their relationship to free spaces, to rural spaces and to periurban spaces. We're delimited and we're thinking. The truth is, the instruments we want to equip ourselves with, we think they'll be powerful. You've lost IDAPA, and you know it's hard, I know it's hard that you've lost IDAPA in this way, huh? You're the same. When I go through the territory, when I come home, I think I can't take this same speech, because I think it's a law to miss IDAPA. IDAPA is an instrument that has been created, this Institute for the Development of the High Pyrenees and Aran, which has served for a lot; it has served not only to make" books, which you said, but to develop a policy of promotion of the territory, effective, real, and which has, and is a great effort, therefore, yes, 1 million euros of pressure. Home, it is not a joke, 1 million euros from the Department of Territory to which is the maintenance of the infrastructure and the capacity to promote the territory of IDAPA. IDAPA is economic dynamism, it's job creation, it's people fixation in the territory. We have programs of socio-economic and territorial dynamism, of valorization of assets, initiatives of reinforcement of the Pyrenean identity – very important. And, for example – and finally, because there is only a short time left – a topic that has developed since IDAPA and that is of added value and of which we are very happy – you, that has diminished IDAPA – we will have the university master in management of mountain areas. Value added, value added promoted for the departments of geography of five Catalan universities, with the support of the General Directorate of Policies of the Muntanya and the Litoral, eh? ; a professional career master's degree, which will be aimed at the knowledge and analysis of the specificities of the mountain, and above all at the training of professionals who from the public or private sphere develop innovative projects suitable to the characteristics of these areas. And this 2018-2019 will be the first edition. We're especially not happy. Thank you very much, honourable Member. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on vocational training]] [[300-00060/12]] The next question is about vocational training, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The question is made by Mr Ramon Espadaler. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.20.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Councillors and Councillors, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament... Of the different areas they collect in particular, that not exclusively, in this case, therefore, in which the Department of Education is, today we would like to focus our attention, like the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, particularly in the field of vocational training, and to do so from a double perspective. From a critical perspective, because we believe that the deployment of a good law, approved with a good consensus in its parliament, is not complete, but also from a positive and purposeful view. Go ahead, counselor, that we are critical, but that it will have us on the side of everything that is the deployment of this law and everything that is initiated that helps to advance in this land, because we believe that it is a positive land. We must agree with the minimum in three things. I believe that it is a very cross-cutting agreement in the case of this Parliament with regard to vocational training. In the first place, your..., that the legislation that we have in force since three months ago generated a very broad consensus, so as not to speak almost unanimously, in this Parliament, now more than three years ago; therefore, there was a political consensus. But something so much more important than political consensus: there was also a consensus, in short, much more than the hemicicle, than the political or administrative sphere, also in the economic agents, an important consensus in the economic world, in the business world in its different expressions – the trade cams, the joints, the employers, also in the trade union world – and also in the world of education and teaching. Therefore, they must agree that it pays the penalty to profit..., we do not have, dissociately, so many areas in which consensus is generated of this transversality and of this naturalness. We must also agree that – more often than not to deploy it – professional training, its deployment, has one, as at least – as at least – a double virtue: one, that of giving job opportunities. In fact, labour input taxes are positive, and more than they could be, if we look at what happens to our European environment; therefore, it helps to avoid social exclusion, it helps to give opportunities. But, in addition, it has a second virtue parallel to this, which is that if it is right – and it is right – it means to be attentive to what are the demands of the business world, of the economic world, which is the one that ends up generating the occupation – it is also a powerful element of competitiveness in which it is the country's joint. And they must also agree that vocational training..., in fact, fixed's, counselor, which is probably the only stage or scope of the world of education in which the economic agents interfere, in the most positive sense of the term, in an effective way, at the time and at the same time to codify who are needed, who are the requests, at the time of attending these people in the process of learning through the different formations, practices, dual training or other types of training. Therefore, there is no other place where this is given. But despite all this agreement, which is a parliamentary agreement, which is more of an agreement in the social and economic world, we note in the government – and this is the complaint we want to make in this inquiry – a lack of confidence, a lack of leadership in the hour of deploying this law that already carries more than three years, so that it is available to the Parliament, the Law 10/2015, of professional training and qualification. We believe that the impulse of vocational training is not a priority of this government if we return to the fact. Not because a member of the opposition says so, which you could say: "Look, this opposition is a challenge, so it's up to him to say... No, no, I'm referring to the fact, and some would like to tell you very briefly. Three years after this approval, there are, as a minimum, three areas in which this deployment did not exist. There was no explanation of the law for what he does to the organ, and not just to the organ but also to the policies. There was no proactivity, the government was no engine, there was no tractor of this good law. There was no explanation for the presuppositional endowment. And there was, in the end, no such display of that which refers to the proactivity of the Government, of the advice that you direct, at the time of incorporation, for example, so, more and more entrepreneurs in the field of dual formation, among other reasons, right? With respect to the law's deployment, there are two fronts. One is the deployment, so to speak, of the organs, and we would like to focus the attention especially on what is the agency, the agency that is created not to have a more administered organ: the agency is something more than just an administered organ. The agency is the clear and clear expression of how at least three things that are what I think the legislator at the time conjured up to change. In the first place is the real expression, the tangible expression, the point of finding effect of what is the world of administration with the socio-economic world, with all its various expressions, to make feasible this change, which in the background does not cease to be a certain cultural change, to put in value the professional formation, to make an offer of professional formation suitable to the needy. There are two ways to program: one, to attend to what is the demand of the potential student, and that would give some unnecessarily positive results from the perspective of the subsequent occupation, or, another, to be attentive – and that is one of the main functions of the agency – to which is the demand of the business world – also by territories, not only sectorally – and to make an offer of agreement with that demand, isn't it? Therefore, the plasma agency, second place, therefore, this real intention of the Government to integrate what is now dispersed, excessively dispersed between different departments. That's why I suppose the legislator left it open, but some organs seem to put them in the domain of Presidency. In any case, what the agency does is to shape this interest of the Government to give a centralized, unique, quality information, in which it is– let's say things for its name– a certain jungle of offer in this area of professional training, of occupational training, which the student can sometimes lose. This is not one of the key functions. And not even having the agency after three years is a sign, from our perspective, from a certain lewdness, from a certain lack of interest. And it involves this delay in the definition of policies, this delay in the making of decisions, in the implementation of those decisions. Soon we will not go on holiday from Nadal; at fever the whole pre-registration process will begin, and that of the professional formation will come a little later, but it will not have been elaborated from, therefore, the agency, which is the organ... it will not have been elaborated as lime. He still won't be able to answer who the needy are, and that's what we're really worried about. And the list of failings is long. I won't read it because I don't have enough time to do it, but I will show some points that have already been voted out of an inquiry that in her day a Member of the Socialist Group, now the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Esther Niubó, made to one of her predecessors, when she said, therefore, that a real integration of the information and guidance systems would be needed: it was voted, and that didn't happen, it didn't happen; a development of a permanent training plan for the faculty: it was voted unanimously, didn't it? , and it has not been done; a development of a standard not less people than the state of learning and the figure of the tutor, both the center tutor and the tutor, in this sense, of the school. And it could continue, therefore, the relationship of incompliments of a twenty-and-a-point motion, in which practically – less than three that are to be done – it has not advanced. And we're talking about two years ago practically – three years ago from the law, two years ago from this Parliament's mandate. And in particular there is one area that concerns us, too: it is all the deployment of dual vocational training. Dual professional training, counselor, we think you've come to stay. And we think you need a much stronger momentum, and you'll find us, at your side, if you're willing to do it on behalf of the government and the group of agents. And when in parliamentary appearance, then, sees Mr. Mohedano and you yourself in your appearance announces that we will move from two thousand places to eleven thousand places, because this to practical effects is the freezing of places, it is simply the growing vegetation. And if we put it on the side of which are the government's objectives by 2025, which is that one third of the professional formation is dual, so that's frustrating. We don't get to 2025, but it's not 2050, with this kind of growth. That means they didn't do their dues. This means that it has not, therefore, taken advantage of the challenge of going to companies, of explaining to small entrepreneurs, to entrepreneurs, to self-employed people, to whom the effort they are making is greatly appreciated, that these peppers, these autonomies and everything, and of course the other great ones, have the possibility to make this effort in the end. And it could continue: incompliments for what it does to the deployment, incompliments or lack of courage, political will, leadership, presupposed incompliments. I don't do the relationship – I brought it – of everything from this rostrum..., of presuppositional commitments that last week were made by their colleagues of the government, which they contracted, therefore, spend when, on the other side, we don't know who the tickets are. Let's see what the woman of whether this premise or general lines, who have presented themselves, you see, for where, outside the Parliament, instead of presenting it in the parliamentary sphere. So, too, some of this perspective. But not from the perspective of this leadership, of this cohesion, of this coup that ends up feeling the government at the time of deploying this law, let us note that you have been proactive. We ask him to lay the batteries, and if they are laid, as always, we will be at his side, because he pays the penalty for the competitiveness of the country and for the opportunities we give to many people who have right and who want to work in this country. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. Counselor Josep Bargalló formulates the answer. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.22.0	Thank you, very honorable President. Honourable Member, let's just say, it's pro-active and it's not critical, according to your definition. As you know, there is no government tomorrow, because for the hourly structure of this House we will make government said in the morning. Surely you also have the order of the day of the plenary of the Digest in the morning, because it is already published at the BOPC, and you must have seen that you said the Government will agree to the composition of the Rector Commission of the Vocational Training and Qualification System, that I could now say that it is in accordance with your petition, but, as you can understand, the order of the day was made before the formulation of your inquiry. In this agreement – in this agreement – the composition of the Rector Commission of the Vocational Training and Qualification System is concrete, does not insert the inn in operation and establishes the transitional regime of certain aspects until the entry into operation of the Public Agency for Vocational Training and Qualification of Catalonia. That is to say, that first petition that you made, that was to begin to develop the bodies of the Law 10/2015, so you said the Government will already approve, following the agreement of last week's technical council. Therefore, the rector commission created, functioning of the system between the creation of the rector commission and the agency previews, and, consequently, the beginning of the path of the deployment of the Law 10/2015 for which it does to its governance, which was one of the aspects that you cared about. To the extent that it is not the agency, which, as the agreement of the government of this said coming, has some terms, we are already working – and we are working for months – in different projects to push a necessary step forward, that is the integration between the two subsystems of professional training, that at these times a directly and strictly depôt of the Department of Education, the initial professional training, and the other depôt directly and strictly depôt of the Department of Labour, Social afers and Families, which is the occupational training. In this sense, the two departments – Education and Work – we are already working in the framework of four concrete mixed groups that plan for eight aspects that the agency will take up when it is created. First, common planning; second, accreditations and correspondence; third, implementation of integrated FP centres. cat 2.0; quartet, FP Communication Plate. Cat; five, the Experimental Orientation Programme; six, the sectoral councils; seven, the territorial councils, and eight, the vocational training grants. I will not detail you now of each of these eight work groups which is your agenda, because I will not have time, but tell you that in the aspects of common planning, the accreditation of vocational training centres for the occupation will work together with the Education Department to design and collaborate in a complementary and joint training offer. For what it does to accreditation and skills, the Department of Education, through the Catalan Institute of Professional Qualifications, will define and develop the general procedure for the evaluation of professional competence, will not approve and authorize the centres, entities and institutions, and will develop and register the certifications of competencies. In the same way, the other aspects I have commented on, with the will to work together the two departments, and not only to work together the two departments, but to hear the work of the two departments for which it does vocational training in an integral way, and to overcome the space between initial and occupational training. In this camp there are two of these working groups that put forward two proposals that we are responsible for and have to do with some of the aspects that you said. For one canto, the sectoral councils, because they must be the instruments to allow the observation of the different strategic sectors of the country so as to anticipate the need for training. And for the other, the territorial councils, that this is something that the law does not include – that the law does not include – but that we, with the Department of Treball, have the will to include in the agency, because we understand – and you have said it, and so you have to agree on the introduction of the territorial councils as well as that the law does not mention them – that they are a phonenal tool of this planning, because the territorial councils have to include in each of the territories the administration, the social agents and the economic agents, because they have to include the City Forum with the Professional Training Council, because municipalism has to participate in this planning, so that municipalism is to participate in the planning. He talked about dual formation. We are not satisfied, you must not have felt that this government says that it is satisfied with the current situation of dual formation in Catalonia. It is obvious: we are in a middle of a 10-percent dual training in vocational training; the European middle is a 30-per-cent, Germany is a 60, France is a 50. It is indeed, let's say a saying that leaves us unsatisfied, and we are working and working in an expansion of the offer in the dual formation, for which these sectoral councils, these territorial councils are fundamental, because we cannot extend the dual formation strictly only from the department, or from the departments; we have to do it in the territory and with the sectors. And obviously – and obviously – also increase the number of students who practice foreign language, which is not well dual training, but that we have many proposals, and we have proposals to the best of our ability that they are signed and not developed, as for example with the Government of Wallonia, which there is a consensus in this sense signed but has not yet gone to practice. In the strict initial vocational training, which is directly from the department, we also have a plan of action, let's say, urgent that you also have to see with things that you have raised. First, the updating of the map of the offer of initial vocational training and of the special arrangements, because we are aware that we have an offer that very often fits the business reality of a few years ago, when what we have to do is an offer that fits the industrial, commercial and business reality of a few years ago. In order to make this offer we need this map, and we need to talk more about more with other departments: in the case of Agriculture, for example, for agricultural, wine, nautical and fishing offers, but with almost all the departments of the Generality. We also need to make a presentation of the offer of vocational training for students with special educational needs. This is a proposal that has a very short time, that has very little experience, that are the specific format itineraries, but that in the little experience that has given you very good results, and in this sense we have to extend it from two itineraries to three, with more groups, with more centers. We need to update the PS model in different areas. In the continuing formation of the teacher, as you said, it is not certain that nothing has been done. Through the European Social Fund, for example, an important teacher training has been carried out in recent years. The last year did not, because the European Social Fund, thanks to 155, did not arrive, but the years before 155, which was as much concerned with vocational training as to cut our European foundations, there was a teacher training, with nine subjects, with new applications. There is also the order of evaluation of the FP that we are about to take; the order of regulation of the FP at distance, the order of promotion of positive actions for the better of the FP, resolution on dual formation and resolution on the music schools...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.23.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.24.0	...and dance that we are preparing and that we will soon publish. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, has the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.26.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I fixed that now I make a rule of things that are preparing. The problem is that three years ago we had the law and they shouldn't be in preparation, they should be girls, from the first to the last of your orders. That's the problem, that's what we're finally reporting. I came to the head while listening to a parliamentary anecdote, I think he was the Earl of Romanes, who once rose up to the rostrum and said: "Never! And in the end a Member asked him: "Listen, what do you mean when you say never? He said: "At least a week. I think more or less the anecdote was coming this way. Listen, Mr. Mohedano came here and said, "It is imminent that the approval of the governing committee, which you are now announcing to us for the month ahead, is coming. How much is the term of imminence for the Government of the Generality? Months and months. Well, we know a little more than we know, it's a little like that if you're two weeks old... the imminence is one-and-a-half. But, of course, not one and a half years after Mr. Mohedano said it in committee... but it's been three years since he said it. I'm already counting a million years for reasons, huh? But it's been three years since he said it. So, I'm sure they're interested in a little... And we know each other well, counselor. I followed him, many parliamentary interventions. You're a brilliant parliamentarian. You had to read: you don't have professional training at your head. You have a lot of things, responsibilities, amps, that's right, but we've known each other for a long time. He said, "Listen, we have done this, we will present this council, we have this order, this other order. I didn't tell him that things had not been done, of course they had been done. The professional training fortunately went, because there are plenty of instruments there because it works, but there is not what should be revealed, man, in one of the areas where Parliament generates more consensus, and where outside Parliament there is more consensus, and we are not left in this country of these areas. Moreover, it has the virtue of generating two positive things: occupied for sectors and even with a fracture of staying out of the company due to problems of non-employment, and more, element of competitiveness. I'm sorry, I'm taking your words. He says: "Listen, we have to schedule all the courses – and that's what we applaud –" according to the demands of the business sectors. Based on what have they programmed the course you see? If they didn't create the agency, if the council said they'd approve it. Based on what did they make this offer? And it's still troubling us. Says: "Look, the goal is to reach a 30_per_cent and we are at a 10_per_cent. Do you think we'll get there from one thousand to one thousand? I made the numbers: 2050 maybe yes, but, listen, 2050 is a little too late. So, yes, we would ask them in this sense a little more pro-activity. Let's not deny that they're doing things, obviously they're a fan. But, listen, you don't just have a parliamentary group, I want to believe that I'm almost a whole parliament, or I'm not really a parliament: I'm just a parliament behind you. Deploy it, with courage, with greed, with interest. Vagina looking for these businessmen. There's a lot of self-government, there's a lot of small and medium-sized companies that could play in the dual formation camp and that don't do it by ignorance, by insecurities. There are many students who have this offer and do not access it, probably because it costs them to identify it, because there is no unified offer. And that was the bondage, the revolutionary change, if I may, most of the time, the quality that made the law, and that's why it added so many unanimousness. The law, and then later on this young man, that I entertained myself to score it, and it's that the compliment is very short: twenty-two points. I won't read them again, but in any case, respect the twenty-two points, you told me to create working groups. This is his answer: "Listen, we will create a working group for the normal deployment, for the topic of scholarships and aids, for the subject, therefore, of qualifications...Listen, we are not in time... It is better than believing them and starting to lay the piles, but in any case, man, we are still aware that a lot of time has been lost, and that the answer cannot be, here: "Now we will create working groups, to promote what was a mandate of this Transversal Parliament. I would say that there are no more reasons than to enjoy the unanimity of what this joy, which two years ago it was substantiated. And, allow'ml'expression, the warmest is to the water, and that is why we express our concern. And I would like to end with a reflection, which seems to me to be going down, which is a quote from Aristotle, when he says: "There is no need for a perfect government, what we need is a government that is practical. Counselor, we ask you to be practical. You do the work groups, you create the council, but above all you create the agency, and above all you put the batteries and vagina, so, with the economic world, the hand of the economic and trade union world, the business world, to generate these opportunities, because they are opportunities for these people, but above all, and also, they are opportunities for our country. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return, again, to the reply of the Honourable Counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.28.0	Thank you, President. The motion to which you refer I have obviously read, and I have also assessed its contents and its compliment. Sometimes it seems that you are oblivious, of what has happened in this country – it seems that sometimes you are oblivious, of what has happened in this country. And you don't forget, it's applied 155. And you are oblivious, that there was no political direction. And you are oblivious, that the only political direction there was in Madrid and its maximum will was that it is not fessin' things. Sometimes they seem to forget, that's why. I already understand that you were right to forget about it, because the regrets sometimes do wrong – sometimes do wrong – and from the Catholic tradition you do a lot of wrong, the regrets. But – but – I know it's hard for me that you said we approve of the rector council, because it seems that we know it's hard for us to approve it. This government – this government – has six months, and in these six months the government has had, first, to unpack the evils of 155 in educational matter, which were very big and very big – very big. Segon, worry about the course hysterical. And then pull out the policies to what has been compromised. One of the policies to which it has been committed is to launch an integrated vocational training, directed by the Department of Education and the Department of Work, with the Department of Economy, and the Department of Presidency. We will not create working groups, we have already created them, they are already working – they are already working – and they have already given results, and we have already made proposals and they are already working. He's already working. And we have, for example, incorporated the City Forum with FP Council into our work, which was not – that was not. And we've worked with the sectors, with the economic representatives, with the social representatives, and with the trade chambers; we've met and we're planning. And we're planning a better dual formation. Because we have professional training, honourable Member, we are concerned – we are concerned – and we are working there. And we are working because we are more convinced that we have a very good system of vocational training now – now, now, now – a very good system of vocational training now, now, that it has excellent results in higher vocational training – excellent – of the best in Europe, and that it has some results that we are very concerned about in the middle cycle, produced – produced –, all of the sudden, of the use between all of the middle cycle for an element that is not correct, that is the temporal occupation of a student type, not with the willingness to train it professionally, but with the willingness to keep it in place, while the higher one does have this professional willingness. And one of the jobs we have to do is turn middle-class cycles into pros. And, besides, turning them into dynamics – turning them into dynamics –, and from that we will make a proposal very soon, because if we need thirty jobs in a concrete place, in a concrete territory, we need to make a professional formation for those thirty jobs, and know how to unload it to make another one for another fifty jobs that we have later. Because professional training, however, Mr. Member, is a formation that we will only bring forward, as you say, with consensus, starting by consensus in the Government, and therefore, this joint work of the board of directors that will be approved and the agency that is drawn into the assurance, among all the departments that we have competences, but also with the territory and also with the social agents. And I can assure you one thing: I have spent the last two years of my working life, among other things, in the training of vocational training teachers, because I am very interested in them, and if I ever want to explain to them how the training of vocational training teachers is done. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the balance of the past year since the elections of 21 September 2017 and the violation of civil and political rights]] [[300-00063/12]] The next question is about the balance of the past year since the elections of 21 December 2017 and the violation of civil and political rights. Presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, the honourable Member Marta Vilalta explains the inquiry. When you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.30.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, today is 17th December 2018. This is Catalonia, therefore, we are in the middle of Europe, in full 21st century, and if we have to do an x-ray of democratic salvation in which we would appear to be in another era, in another era last: new prisoners and political prisoners; seven independent leaders in exile; drawings of people of the government and its surroundings with open and persecuted diligencies for letting the people vote; repressed social activists who are also in exile or in another type of prison, such as Tamara or Adri; more than seven hundred mayors and mayors repressed and persecuted; cities of our country with open causes for inverse crimes that are to be answered before justice in a way that does not start: pallasosososos, i.o.o.o.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i. And, in the case of the Spanish State, not only circumscribed in Catalonia, up to twenty thousand persons sanctioned or investigated for exercising their freedoms in the Spanish State by the year 2017, according to the campaign's Ómnium report« Tomorrow you can be yourself. This is the radiography in Catalonia, today, 17th of September 2018, in full 21st century, in the heart of Europe, an X-ray describing the repression, the repression that there is, an X-ray on this repression is conjugate in the form of imprisonment, in the form of exile. And, therefore, let me paraphrase the mythical phrase of the Blade Runner film: "I have seen things that democrats will never believe you. [[Greetings.]] And it's hard to create the cluster of misappropriations that we have to live this last year, with two elements in the table: for one band, the demand for more democracy, and, for the other, the response, which has been repression, always repression as the answer. This week a year ago, we completed a year of elections to the Catalan Parliament on the 21st of last year, imposed elections, illegitimate elections, but to which we presented ourselves, because we always bet on democracy, we always bet on the way to the polls to decide, because people, citizens, decide the future collection of our people, in which, despite the repeated protests of the State, despite the adversity with which we presented ourselves, independence again won the ballots: 2,079,340 votes, seventy deputies and deputies, the absolute parliamentary majority. This is the result of this election a year ago, and in this last year, in these last twelve months since last year, what we have seen is how we have repeated attempts to alter the outcome of the polls and, therefore, to alter the democratic mandates; we have also seen, throughout this last year, the right backlash and democratic ill-health of the State; we have seen the attempt to impose a false report, a rape report where there is no one, a report of irresponsible to our country. And we have also seen – also – and so we want to highlight, as every time there are more international voices that denounce precisely this retreat and this one derives from the State. That's all we've been through this past year. Let's go: it gave a year to try to alter the results of the polls and, therefore, the democratic mandates, a year to try to judicialize politics and try to use the judicial system as a game to serve the interests of the unit of the Spanish State. As you must remember, Mr. Counsellor, a year ago we were in a few elections with the theme "Democracy always wins. And who won, as I said, it was precisely the independence majority, the formations that we are part of this independence majority. And that's why they couldn't win the 155 ballots, which they had called some elections on 21 December to try to win the ballots, like they couldn't win the ballots a year ago, 21 December, try to win the courts; they try to win the courts; they try to win us by the way of justice; they try to win us by suspecting Members of this Parliament; they try to silence the leaders of the political and social formations of the independent movement in our country; they try to scare the people, the citizens; they try to, and even threaten us by saying that they are illegal parties and political formations; they try to threaten us, because they don't know how to convince people, they know how to live, and they do so, that they can never forget. Previously at the elections we have already seen the first episode, the first task, through the application of 155, where the Parliament – yes, 155 yes did – was closed, and where the Government of the Generality was removed on the basis of a clear excess of an article, 155, and already altering, previously at those elections, the democratic mandate with which we came and held since the year 2015. After the elections, after 21 December, and with this independenceist majority in the polls, the Spanish State has followed, during this last year, during these last twelve months, trying to change these results. What? So the long list of hardships is clear: first, preventing the investiture of President Puigdemont; then, preventing the investiture of company Jordi Sánchez, despite the fact that there was on the table a communication from the United Nations Human Rights Committee that asked the State to take all necessary measures to guarantee its political rights, that they were and are intact. And that was done by the Spanish State, first preventing an investiture, then preventing another. And, yes, as there are not three sense two, therefore, also preventing the investiture, in this case, of the deputy company Jordi Turull, in one of the most shameful chapters that has had to live this chamber, that has had to live this country, in that repressive and anti-democratic chronicle, where, in the midst of a debate of investiture, the precautionary measures were changed without changing the circumstances, and the candidate for the presidency of the Generality of our country was secreted, and that he would have become president of the Generality, and to alter these results, to alter democracy, to alter the democratic mandate, once again the judicial system, with the man of a whole state afterward, to move away from the country to the present, and to the future. Certainly, the greetings from here, as well as the rest of the prisoners who are making this gap of fame, and we convey to them all the support and all the solidarity. They have followed the impediments: preventing the restoration of the Government of the Generality, because they did not allow to be appointed advisers who were political prisoners and exiles, despite having their political rights intact, or following threats with more applications of 155. Before that, counselor, we give you a price, and it is the need to continue to strengthen the institutions of our country, the need to strengthen the government, the need to strengthen this Parliament before these violations, these attacks on democratic mandates, and this chamber, where, certainly, and what is wrong with popular sovereignty. He also said, however, that this last year, these last months, we have experienced a setback in the rights and an evidence in the democratic ill-health of the State; more than a year of violation of civil rights, where, as I say, activists artists, politicians, people of various professions have seen how they were watching the rights, how they were being persecuted and how their right to freedom of expression was being violated. The right is being used, justice is being used as an instrument to serve the status quo and to serve certain political positions. We have seen persecution of activists, we have seen how freedom of expression has been violated in this Parliament, since President Carme Forcadell is now in prison for letting her talk about everything and, therefore, where freedom of expression has been..., has been abused and this right of freedom of expression has not been allowed, where we have also seen the proliferation of hate crimes, precisely, that violate this freedom of expression. We have seen, this last year, twenty-and-four black hours in the Marc of the Spanish State, from 20 to 21 February 2018, where he was sentenced to arrest rapper Valtònyc, where he was kidnapped the book Fariña, where he was censored the exhibition of Arc. We have seen that there is much talk of 155, which has also been used to violate the rights of Members of this House, of members of the Government and, in retrospect, of the citizenship of our country, but we see that it is not about other rights that should be guaranteed, as it is not about other articles of the Spanish Constitution, such as Article 14, which says that there must be no discrimination on grounds of birth, race, sex, religion or opinion, or as it is not about Article 20, which means that the right to freedom of expression must be recognised and protected. That's what we've seen this year as well, and so I would like to know, counsel, your opinion – and with this I finish – what the government can do to, precisely, guarantee these rights to all the citizens of our country and, above all, through an instrument that we believe to be instrumental as the Office of Civil and Political Rights. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.32.0	Deputy Vilalta, as the representative of the Government of Catalonia, therefore, I am hard aware and sorry to have to corroborate your judgment and your vision of what has happened during the last year. That is to say, without any doubt, the opinion of this humble adviser is that we are living, as far as civil rights in Catalonia are concerned, the worst moment since the Spanish Transition, the worst moment that this country has experienced with regard to civil rights and human rights, and also with regard to the functioning of democracy and the political system in which we find ourselves. So it's obvious that we have to take cards, that we have to do something, and the first thing we have to do is make it clear what happened, why it happened and where the situation created came from. Nor does it offer doubt about the finding, the reality that there has been a systemic violation of civil rights, democratic rights and freedoms, and a systemic violation that has clearly resulted from the powers of the State, the powers of the State that have acted by nationalism, by ideological motives, by political convictions, and have not allowed the development of the political system and of the democratic system for which they do not think and for which they do not share what is the dominant ideology of the powers of the State, of the Spanish Government, but also of the other powers of the State. For what it does to the legislature, we have seen clearly, it is to say, possibly, culminates in the moment when the Senate approves the application of Article 155, an application and an interpretation that we see as dubious constitutionality, because Article 155 does not say, therefore, what is then done, is to say, that there is a clearly abusive interpretation, excessively rigorous and implacable, with interest in this ideological defense by the powers of the State. He suspended the legitimate government of Catalonia, institutions like this very Parliament. Article 155 does not say that, this is an interpretation that the powers of the State have done, and they have done an extreme interpretation, even posing in question a thing that the Spanish Constitution of 1978 does say, and that autonomy, the principle of autonomy forms part of the intrinsic values and concepts that are armored in that same Spanish Constitution; that is, we interpret that the application itself of 155 comes into challenge with what is the experience of Spanish constitutionalism, and some experts in constitutional law, experts who have nothing to do with independence, as they have noted. Therefore, we have a legislature that approves the application of 155, which allows the institutions, the government, the legitimate parliament of Catalonia to be suspended, and this is a first major violation of civil rights. We also have the executive, the Spanish Government, which applies and develops this 155, which eliminates Catalonia's autonomy – so clearly: it eliminates the autonomy of our country – and which involves all the human suffering that you can assume, starting with, for example, 234 people working for this Government, right? These are things that are sometimes not said, so let's say them, because they have passed away and because they have caused much human suffering, apart from violating elementary rights. Vulneration of the execution also of elementary rights such as its own physical integrity, when it sends, therefore, the police, and thousands of police and civilian guards, to beat civilians, eh? , with an operation planned, deliberate, so that they do not vote, so as to sabotage a vote. This also goes against the most fundamental human rights. Or, when you have approved laws in this Parliament, the Parliament of Catalonia, which we all share and represent here, systematically to the Constitutional Court because they are suspended. And here comes another power of the State, the judiciary, which also participates in this systemic violation, for example, so, with accusations, which have little to do with politics but which form part of the general climate of repression obsessive for such a fourth freedom... when it accuses musicians, humorists, pallasso, it is to say, all sorts of people that allow us to use freedom of expression to criticize the powers of the State. Or, for example, when he sends new people to prison, new people to prison without bail, preventive, before judging them, it's to say, people who are clearly not guilty, apart from not harming anyone, not killing anyone, not stealing anyone, etcetera, right? Therefore, we have here a clear violation of what are the principles of the most elementary rights of justice, and seven people who must go to exile in order not to run the same fate of these new people who are treated in such an unfair way. The accusation, too, of new people, basically, mayors, huh? , of 80_percent of the municipalities of Catalonia: 80_percent of the municipalities of Catalonia hold the mayors accused for having put the ballot boxes, for having contributed to an exercise of participation and democracy. Or, for example, when the same judiciary, the Spanish courts ignore, or even contradict, European justice, because while the European courts say that there is no reason to criminalise or to impute, therefore, those exiles that are accused by the Spanish judiciary, by the different Spanish courts, this contradiction is unknown to European justice, a flagrant contradiction that leaves us not only in another segle, but in another continent and in another area that does not seem like Western Europe of the 21st century, as the deputy Vilalta rightly pointed out. Or the Constitutional Court, which suspects laws approved here in the Parliament of Catalonia, or which extends remedies before European justice on the part, for example, of political prisoners, which explains why four of these political prisoners abound in the wave of fame as an extreme measure of protest. And, finally, then, the same monarch, the King of Spain, who, from October 3rd, benefits from these actions of the various powers of the State, eh? And to the best of all, these violations, these abuses that we've talked about, with that speech that crowns these actions. And, therefore, we have a climate in which Spanish nationalism acts from the various powers of the State for such fourth freedoms, so that it violates the most elementary rights and, before that, obviously, the Government of Catalonia, which I represent, not only must inform, it must not only explain what is happening here and also internationally, but must react. And it has to react, therefore, with things like the creation of the Office for the Defense of Civil and Political Rights, or with many other actions that, if it seems to you, then, with the time that we have left, I will have no problem explaining to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.34.0	Yes; just so, counselor, you were now talking at the international level about a lot of the work the government can do, and what it's doing and what it's sure to do next. Just as it is, it is also one of the consequences that we have seen of this last year: each time more international views that are added to the complaint of this violation of rights and of this anti-democratic drift of the State. We have seen, and you have said, judicial judgments that they are right and that they do respond to the rights of the people to whom they are submissive. We have found there the justice that there is not in the Spanish State, where the rights are being violated and where there is a misrepresentation and a non-separation of powers, but we have also seen the support of more than five hundred deputies and deputies from other parliaments of the world supporting President Forcadell, for the freedom of expression and to do so which any presidency of a parliament of the world has to do, that is to leave it to debate, let it be able to speak at all. We have seen four hundred renowned academics and politicians in solidarity with the members of the Electoral Union, among them, Noam Chomsky or Iannis Varufakis, we have seen Humans Rights Watch denouncing the violence of '1 October, we have seen Amnesty International demanding the freedom of prisoners, and especially of social leaders, the Jordis, and also denouncing the disproportionate performance of the Police, also on 1 October, among others. We have seen all this, all that I have explained to him in my first reply, all this response also at the international level, which will grow, but we have also seen, Councillor, Members and Members, such as repression, as this way, the path that has decided or what the Government of the Spanish State and the Spanish State has chosen in its conjunction, with all its powers, does not serve to put up with us, as it cannot bind 2_million people, more than 2_million people. In fact, what we are told by these questions, what we are told by the data is that independence continues to grow, because it is obvious that people are in favour of rights, they are in favour of justice, they are in favour of democracy, they are in favour of freedom, and now this State does not guarantee any of these issues. And it is obvious, therefore, that they continue to grow, especially in a context of so much repression, and it is the demonstration that neither 155, which we have already experienced, nor whatever there may be-will not serve for anything. And that would be a good thing for the State to think about, and it would be a good thing for it to have a strong and determined response from the Government of the Spanish State. And in this sense, too, after this rest of all that we have seen last year, which you have also explained, you have somehow explained to us from the government how the Government of Catalonia will continue to act before this violation of rights, before this repressive response that we have only found so far by the Spanish Government and what the Government of Catalonia will do to make its own steps. Miri, Councillor, the President of the Spanish Government, President Pedro Sánchez, last week at the Congress deia, referring to the company of Esquerra Republicana there, Joan Tardà : « Bring 'n a proposal of the 75_percent of the people, that you are agreed with the support of the 75_percent of the population, and we will have it and we will talk about it. So it already exists, and so I hope the government can also move... There is already this majority, there is already this consensus in our country, in fact, it is not a 75_per_cent, it is an 80_per_cent, it is still greater this consensus, a consensus that has a double pot, a consensus that says that it is to be decided by political means, it is to be able to decide by voting, it is to be able to decide the future of our country through a self-determination referendum: this has the 80_per_cent consent of our country's citizenship and the double can that the repression has ended. Also, more than 80_percent of our country's citizenship – certainly, voters from all the political parties in this Parliament, also from Ciutadans, also from the People's Party – is in favour of the end of the repressive path, and, therefore, that the political solution to our country can be done through democracy. [[Greetings.]] That already exists, the consensus is there. And, therefore, the bet, the work, the continuation before these twelve months that you see as the worst of the times after the Transition, and that actually are hard times for the right and for democracy..., for which we bet, counselor, is by political means, it is by the way of the dialog, it is by the way of no waiver, but, always through democracy, give the view to the citizenry, and we hope that the Government can guarantee it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, it's the counselor's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.36.0	Thank you, President. Well, actually, as you can understand, one of the functions of this government is to defend a society like Catalan, which is a peaceful society, it's a society ahead of us, it's a civic society, and it's eminently dialogueal, and so we'll defend it, we'll defend it here in this Parliament, in front of the country in general and in front of the world, and we'll explain it. Now, we also have to explain that it is an unfairly treated society, and a society where civil rights are not respected, and a society where the democratic system is not respected. Therefore, we also have to do this and we also have to say that. We must recognize that the last year the change of government to the Spanish State has produced some advent, let's say, let's say everything, because if we weren't unfair. For example, the prisoner stand, which is a right, huh? , it's not a favor – it's a right – but this right has finally been completed, it's about time. We must also say, therefore, that the effects of 155 have risen for the suspension of the Government or the Catalan institutions. This is not just a right, but it is reflected in the Spanish Constitution that some claim to defend so much. So, another time, it's done what needs to be done. Let's say it too, 'cause I didn't get caught up in being unfair, did I? Now, the violations continue, the political prisoners continue to prison without bail, without justice; the exiles continue outside the country and cannot return; the defendants continue to be accused, hundreds of people, etc., everything we have said before. Therefore, before this situation, we, from the beginning, saw that perhaps there was some sign of hope, we said that we would have the extended, that we would favor the dialog, that we wanted the dialog because the society to which we represent this dialog, and wants the peace, and wants the prosperity, and wants the stability. So, from one side, this extended hand. Now, from the other side, also firm: firm in the denunciation of that which turns us into an unjust society; firm in the defense of that which we must defend, it is our obligation, because they are right, and because you have to see with the essence of democratic participation, we can do nothing but defend it, here and outside. And, therefore, also, let's say to them as an external adviser, therefore, that I am very clear that out of here we have to explain the realities of a country ahead, of a stable country, of a dialogue country, of a civic country, but also of a country that has seen injustices that are not acceptable in the 21st century in Western Europe. And these things have to be said, the truth has to be explained too. Therefore, tell them too that we will ask that the dialog be mutated, because we cannot remain alone, if we remain alone there will be no dialog. And, therefore, we insist that from the Spanish government and the powers of the State there is also a dialog; that things are not resolved by taking people, things are resolved by speaking. And things, the political issues pending, are resolved with democratic, representative policies, respecting what the people have voted, are not resolved by putting people in prison, sending them to exile and denying any dialogue and any possible agreement. Here, before what we've seen in the last few days, we also have to say that the position of the Spanish Government gave us some hope and every time it offered us less. Basically, because the same Spanish government has subdued itself to secrecy on the part of ultra-right and more radical Spanish nationalism. Because the Spanish Government is acting in a more complex way every time, and because the Spanish Government is applauded when you decide to come here to make a council of ministers on the 21st to show that the Spanish Government does not dialogue, that the Spanish Government pulls for the right. And that, after the Andalusian elections, after the boom of ultra-right and more radical Spanish nationalism, each time is more visible. Therefore, what we ask of the Spanish Government and the President of the Spanish Government, Pedro Sánchez, concretely, is that he comes to the dialect, that he answers and that he answers in an open political way to our petitions for dialogue, and that he is not allowed to secretate on the part of the ultra-right, competing to see who calls for more penalties, who calls for more violations of civil rights and democracy in Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.37.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.38.0	...and, therefore, that it is dedicated to solving problems and not to creating us problems. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Government inquiry into the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms]] [[300-00065/12]] The next question is about the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The honourable Member Carlos Carrizosa explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.40.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, Counsellor, Mrs Capella, the exercise of fundamental rights and public freedoms in Catalonia is constantly being violated. Violent people camp on their own and turn fellow citizens into hostages, pass over their rights to impose their political objective of imposing independence on all Catalans, whether they want it or not. And the Government acts in this context in two ways: one by action and the other by omission collaborates with this attitude of violating the rights of Catalans by violent minorities. By action, when you ask, through your president, to squeeze the Catalans, when President Tora declares that he supports the path of Slovenia, when it is said that the right to protest without limits will be guaranteed, when public television encourages to go to demonstrations or whitewashs violence. And this is a mode in which I would like to stop myself just for a moment. It is inconceivable that on a public television – and we have already taken this out some time before in this Parliament – you will realize where airports, ports, airports, more ports, roads are going to invade. This is not the right to demonstrate, Counselor. On TV3, in the programming that happens, in some of your programs... I know, you sure don't get your attention: I read it to you and you say« and what? Like this whole side of the bench. It is TV3's Frequently Asked Questions program: "This evening the program talks about various topics, such as the waves of fame, the October 1 judgment, the Slovenian street, the 155th threat, the crisis in the Mossos d'Esquadra, the Council of Ministers and the CoR. It's all normal, isn't it? For to us he drew attention « l'am menaceça of 155 but « the Slovenian way. That is, the Slovenian way is not a threat of war, that is not a threat; the CDRs, which are the violent ones who cut us off from the streets, that is not a threat, are the Slovene way and the CDRs, and then the threat is 155. This is TV3. By default, when do you participate in the violation of the rights of Catalans? When they omit to persecute the violent ones; when they do not practice arrests despite the numbers, and the riots and the violence that is done; when it is said that the order will not be able to be guaranteed despite having a body of 17 thousand armed police; when it does not warn of the illegalities that are committed occupying airports, communications facilities, ports, stations. When you do not warn: "Hey, watch out! This is going on TV3..., we make a statement to the government: "Be careful, this is not supported by the right of demonstration. You don't do any of that. Do you know that this is what your brothers, allies, ANC partners are going to do, that here we had a president of the Parliament who was also president of the ANC, to go slow with cars to collapse the city, to prevent the rest of the citizens from moving normally that day...? Do you know that you...? That is, you will know, that it is not governed by the law, that this is not a right of manifestation. The right of demonstration is that you give a_day, an_hour, a tour, some assistants and get..., notify that and you have a permit. If there are alterations or traffic disturbances, it's secondary, because you have a right of assembly and demonstration set up, but that of getting down the streets to collapse the cities that's not... have they notified you? You have been told by the ANC: "Are we going to make a concentration with vehicles in one or the other place? Isn't that right? Well, that's not covered by the law. Tell him, because if you are not complicit in the omission of all violations of the rights of Catalans. Among them, many workers, many self-employed, on 21 December, have already decided that they will not go to their jobs. Many parents are not going to take their children because, of course, who is going to take their child to school thinking: "Maybe I get there and maybe I don't, and then I just can't go and pick up what the CDRs have tied up with me. Also those... look, right to work, so, right to education, to childhood, to child protection. Hospitals have canceled 21-D visits. What? Is there no right to health for Catalans who are not independent and who suffer mobilizations? Officials who know that their bosses are independenceists, because they literally clothe their councils with yellow bonds, are they going to signify themselves and not do the twilight of the country? This goes against ideological freedom, this goes against the neutrality of public institutions. Let's not say anything about the right to receive truthful information. What I have taught you about TV3 is to spread truthful information, for example? These informational approaches silence that everything that is prepared for December 21, except those manifestations that are duly notified and authorized...? , who will tell me what you are, everything else is extramural of the right and the authorizations for..., are not supported by the right to demonstration. It is up to you to ensure compliance with the laws, respect for public order and the rights of all Catalans. Look, you already have examples, we already have examples with Councillor Buch, who threatened with fines of up to thirty thousand euros to those who removed yellow ties, then ran a tupid veil; or who avoided that some protesters with permission could complete the authorized demonstration they had because there were others of their friends, the violent CDRs, to whom Mr. Torra says « presseu, presseu, who did not consent to it, arrive at Sant Jaume Square. This happened with Jusapol and with a manifestation for bilingualism. Look, what's being prepared on the 21st. I have several photos of these: marked why? Fixed if you see an element in all of them, the same element, common: fire, is fire. They are the posters of Arran of the fires; look, this is a city that could be a bombarded Slovenian city, because they are buildings throwing smoke; it says: "From the barricades of ahir, the victòries of tomorrow! Here I brought you a Terra Lliure terrorist who says..., one of the co-founders of the Terra Lliure terrorist group calls to turn 21-D into a republic uprising. This is what you're preparing. Look, photos of highways cut off by hooded people. This, this are going to be done to us on December 21 – this. His friends from the Assembly: "The oppressive State visits the colony one year after the independence victory in some imposed elections. Ready. And then, here, the call to the cars, which you'll tell me..., if you're stuck in some legal precept, you explain it to me, that yes, you're a lawyer, but so do I, you know. But here you don't... tell me what fit you have. Tell me, too, if you support this campaign of « What a fucking justice, you who are counsel for Justice, when they harass the judges and courts, this campaign of the CoR, of the friends of Mr Torra, who tells them « presseu, presseu. Do you support this campaign of ‘ what kind of fucking justice? ' Look, you... I'm gonna ask you a few questions, because this is an inquiry. So, I, what I am going to say to you, basically, is: you come out here and say that your Government is going to protect the rights and freedoms of the rest of the Catalans, of those who are not independent; you come out here and say that it is forbidden to manifest itself with violence, that what is allowed are peaceful demonstrations. Tell me this ANC doesn't have legal coverage. Say it's not right to cut the highways. Say it. Come out here and say: « With the Councillor of Justicia i member of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia..., I say that this is forbidden, that it is wrong, that our Government will protect the rights of Catalans and will prohibit them from being violated. You get out here and you say it. And I also want to ask you another question, and I have only one minute left to speak. You are a member of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. I ask you... interpellation: I ask you and you come out here and, if you're so kind, answer me. "The Catalans have lost their way, they don't want us, there's no going back on the road to freedom. The Slovenians decided to push forward with all the consequences – with all the consequences. We're like them and we're willing to live free. This tweet, isn't it? It's Mr. Torra's, it's the Government's, it's yours, all of you. Come out here and tell me if you, as a member of this government and of this official account, participate in this official account, protect this what Mr Torra said. After answering if you will defend us, please, the rights and freedoms of all Catalans. And also remind him that, when a government does not do what it should, it is not above the laws and responds, like all citizens, to the duty to comply with the laws that we all have, Mrs Capella. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.41.0	The Councillor of Justice responds. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.42.0	Thank you, President. Very nice late. Deputies, deputies, councillor..., councillor Bosch. Well, then the Government of Catalonia defends the rights of all the citizens of Catalonia. Civil and political rights, in the past, you know, are in question, not only in Catalonia and the Spanish State, but in the West. And, fruit, surely and as a consequence, of the emergence of right-wing populism... Yes, yes, right-wing, that we thought the extreme right did not exist in the Spanish State, and yes, it does. The emergence of new forms of citizen control through technological means. Also the emergence, when they produce, therefore, situations of social tension arising from the economic crisis or from political crises, causes in the later years the civil and political rights that we believe to be based on a good part of our political and cultural environment, as is now the right to freedom of expression, the right to freedom of demonstration, the right to freedom of assembly, and so forth. Both individual and collective rights. Because you know that individual rights are now collected. One of the aims of this Government, of the Government of Catalonia, of the Government of the Generality, is the defense of the rights of everyone– of everyone–, of absolutely everyone, unlike what happens with other governments. Of these rights that we believe today were consolidated and that, unfortunately, some, therefore, of the later events pose it in question. There have been attacks on journalists, there have been attacks on people for certain symbols, there have been actions in which political acts have been prevented, or there have been attempts to prevent political acts. Therefore, this Government acts with an integral view of public policies that develop within the framework of the competences of the different departments: in the field of citizen security, in the field of the departments that manage public spaces, in the field of the department of policies related to the administration of justice, and thus up to a large etcetera. One of the tasks we have to do from the Government is to disseminate the contents of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. We must take over citizenship in the exercise of its rights – we must take over citizenship in the exercise of its rights. To remember that it is a pact that forms part of the Spanish legal order, which was signed for the Spanish State, even at the end of the dictatorship, the year 1977, in the first period of the Transition, in anticipation of the elaboration of the Spanish Constitution. Therefore, integrated – integrated – into the direct application Spanish legal order – of direct application. We know that the increase in the violation of civil and political rights in the last fifteen months in Catalonia is strongly linked to the political situation in the country, and I will not deny that this has been one of the main reasons why the Government of Catalonia decides to create the Office of Civil and Political Rights. And, therefore, we believe that, precisely, it is at present..., to work for the guarantee and defence of the civil rights of everyone, regardless of their ideology, regardless of their way of thinking, regardless of the movement or political space with which the exercise of these political rights is associated, and, obviously, it is a fundamental element of a government and, therefore, of democracy. Therefore, the Government of Catalonia will defend and defend the rights of everyone to express themselves, to manifest itself, to organize himself civically, peacefully, for the defense of his positions, even though they are obviously contrary to the positions that defend the political program of the Government of Catalonia. Precisely, we believe that the defense, always, of these rights, the defense of these rights from the citizens of Catalonia, and of these rights that are now collected, must be done in any case, especially when it does not agree with the content. This gives value to the right to freedom of expression and freedom of expression. Defense of democracy as the best way to resolve political conflicts. You talk about the laws, the separation of powers, the public order..., but you leave a phonenal element, and that is the element that differentiates democracy from totalitarian rules, or authoritarian rules, that is nothing other than the will of the citizenry, popular will, and therefore the legitimacy that the laws must have. There's no way there's any law, this has to be legitimate. In the definition of "democracy," it seems that the decision of the citizenry, you care very little – they care very little – what is it before, the law or the person? people or the law? And when the laws don't work, they change. You're starting from an idea, which is the petrification of the legal order – the petrification of the legal order –, which is the legal order that is what it is, and how it is this, like these are the laws, so, because that's how it is, that's good in itself; it can no longer be changed, it can no longer be interpreted differently, it can no longer be done differently. And, therefore, any proposal that you want to go further, that you want to offer a political change, so no, you already refuse entry. It would be nice for you to have a debate between lawyers, that this Parliament... you asked me directly as a lawyer. Miri, no, now I don't get a lawyer, I get the councilwoman of the Government of Catalonia, the councilwoman of Justice. And, therefore, I am dedicated to political – I am dedicated to political – and politics is to remove the obstacles that prevent the full freedom of citizens, and therefore of all citizens. And it's a permanent balance, Mr. Carrizosa, and you know it as well as I do, that. And you would like this to be a debate of judges and lawyers. No, no, It's not this way, this. This is a political debate, a debate about legitimate political projects, about comparing different ways of hearing the world and the different possible formulas for making citizens' demands viable. A democratic and right-wing state..., the Spanish State is a democratic and right-wing state – atrophy – because, obviously, it contains in its internal DNA an idea on which it pivots any right-wing exercise of the city, which is the sacrosanct unit of the Spanish State. It all revolves, all the legal interpretation, all the interpretation of public rights and freedoms, about the unity of the Spanish State. All that questions the unit of the Spanish State is a limited exercise of rights. And that's what's happening to us. I, miri, will set you very clear examples. We have a citizen of Viladecans who the National Court continues to prohibit her from leaving her municipality. Now he no longer accuses him of terrorism, but forbids him from coming out of his municipality, and hardly affects his right to freedom of movement and residence. I haven't heard any complaints about your respect. They did not accuse her of a crime of terrorism, which illegally – illegally – accused her of a crime of terrorism. Illegally. He is no longer under the occupation of this crime, but they continue to limit his freedom of walking and mobility. I didn't hear them say anything about it. And, look, as in return, it turns out that there are a whole series of people who have dedicated themselves to systematically raping women, acting in groups, and, in change, they are in freedom. Hey, what are the most different ways to address public rights and freedoms? And that the Spanish State has a real problem at the time of interpreting the rights and freedoms, in spite of the fundamental principles of international law, international agreements and treaties? What European justice says – after we talk, if you will, about what the Court of Justice of European Rights tells the Spanish State – repeatedly – repeatedly – and the biaix it always has – always – the Spanish State, and in this case the Spanish courts, when they limit rights and public freedoms. A biaix, always, that has an objective: to annihilate the political opponent. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. In order to make the reply, the new word has the deputy Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.44.0	Thank you. Counselor, have you left them for the second round, the answers to the questions I asked you? Or aren't you going to answer them? Aren't you going to answer me, Counselor? You haven't answered me – you haven't answered me. I've asked him several questions. I repeat them. Come out here and say it's forbidden to avoid a council of ministers, which is a crime, huh? Besides. Come out and say it. As a Counselor of Justice. Yes, yes: "My Government is aware that preventing a council of ministers from meeting is a crime. And I recommend to the whole population, I ask, and it is also forbidden that this be done. Say it. Say it's forbidden to cut roads, too. Say it. Because, if not, they seem to be allowed forms of protest. It's not allowed. Say it. Come out and... don't be afraid. Or does it tell you..., or does it mean that you have your government's concert to cheer the CoRs to do just that? Is that it? Are you encouraging, as a matter of fact, all this to happen? You want to paralyze the country. Are you behind everything that will happen on December 21st? If you're not behind, why don't you say it clearly? Why not warn here: "Our Government is not behind this, will not tolerate it, will not tolerate illegalities, will defend anyone who wants to go to his or her job, will defend anyone who wants to take his or her child to school, will defend anyone who wants to go to a hospital? Aren't you going to say it? He's not gonna say it. Some are threatening to collapse Catalonia with a very clear purpose, Mrs Capella: "Tombem el regim; instaurem la republica. What is the name of a government that does not prevent violence from taking place in the streets, in numbers, coercion, to overthrow the regime? What's his name? A government of insurrections, or what's its name? Well, get out here and get us out of doubt, and tell us: "No, no, no, no...; it is true that Mr. Torra can sometimes seem a little radical, okay, yes. He has called you mad beasts, yes; he is a little bit...; he writes supremacist things, writes xenophobic things; he invites us to war...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.45.0	Mr. Carrizosa, it seems to me that you're referring to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.46.0	Write, write, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.47.0	He's referring to inappropriate qualifications...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.48.0	Mr. President..., Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.49.0	...to this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.50.0	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.51.0	They are qualified to disqualify the person who told them; so, no...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.52.0	No, no, I am saying things that the main European parties have said, which is that Mr Torra has xenophobic and supremacist writings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.53.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.54.0	I didn't insult Mr. Torra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.55.0	Mr. Carrizosa, the cry to order. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.56.0	And, Mr President, you dare to expel me for telling me the reality – you dare. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.57.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.58.0	I dare you, in exercising the presidency, dare you now to expel me for saying what is true. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.59.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you know..., you know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.60.0	You dare to prove this partiality, Mr President. And lucky this is recorded. I think we're gonna be on the news today, Mr. President. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.61.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you know what has been said many times, to maintain a sense of respect and courtesy in parliamentary forms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.62.0	I have not violated it; I have said a reality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.63.0	They're pejorative, one-person derogations. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.64.0	No, no, no, no; I have not qualified Mr. Torra – I have not qualified Mr. Torra – I have not adjectivated Mr. Torra. I have said what writings Mr Torra wrote, as has also been said in the main European parties, which were thus qualified, his writings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.65.0	I kept talking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.66.0	If we can't do it in Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.67.0	Mr. Carrizosa, continue. And ask them, for the last time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.68.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.69.0	...that the parliamentary courtesy and respect...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.70.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.71.0	...and the apprehension that all parliamentarians must have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.72.0	It was two minutes ago, Mr. President, when I was interrupted, I had two minutes left. In any case, I asked you, Mrs. Capella, that this government, which is headed by a gentleman who has written these things, which have been qualified as xenophobic and supremacist, and which has also written..., and which has left statements in which it supports the path of the Balkan war, the path of the Slovenian war, for I ask you whether this government, which has been preceded by another, which know that it is being prosecuted for rebellion, and that this government is now agreeing that on the streets we are, all Catalans, hostages of a few who say that they are going to paralyse Catalonia, I ask you, as a Councillor of Justice, that you reaffirm yourself if everything I have told you that is illegal you are going to say here, if you are going to say that everything that is not an authorized demonstration is forbidden and that results in violence, say it, say it; say that everything that I have asked you, then, say it is an obligation of your government. And I'm done, I'm going to finish – I'm not going to have time to answer it, with this interruption we've had – but, look, respect for the laws rests with us all – everyone – and governments as well. And what we ask of you, the only thing we ask of you is that, as you said, if you want to amend the laws, you go to the mechanisms of reform of the laws that we all have in democracies; it is that this is very easy. What they cannot resort to is imposition, coercion, blackmail and illegality. And you can't do it, because no other citizen can do it, and you're not above any other citizen. The laws apply to you as to all citizens, and to you more rightly, because you make us citizens have to comply...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.73.0	You're out of your mind, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.74.0	... and we have – I finish, Mr President – to comply and we have to pay the fines when they are imposed on us, we have to pay our taxes when they are imposed on us and we have to make the benefits that a government legally obliges us to comply with. And you are not exempt from this obligation to comply with the laws. I ask you here to ratify it, that you are aware of this, and to answer the questions I have asked you and do not go for the tangent. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.75.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. To finish the reply, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.76.0	Mr. Carrizosa, I didn't go for the tangent. The only thing I have done is make a reaffirmation of what the Government of Catalonia is doing in defence of the fundamental rights and public freedoms of everyone: guaranteeing the full exercise of the rights, which is not predicable from the Spanish State. And I'll tell him why it's unpredicable: because the Spanish State, when it applied 155, so it didn't complete the law. When he applied the Criminal Code with this creative interpretation of violence, which..., there was no rape and « to show a button, if I am allowed the expression..., there was no rape. And you're asking me a few questions about issues that don't happen, that haven't happened. And you know that freedom of expression, freedom of demonstration must be guaranteed. And you know that citizenship is a responsible citizenry, that it knows perfectly what it can do and what it cannot do. And he didn't give any leftovers long after these two years – he didn't give any leftovers – with civic, peaceful demonstrations; he expressed..., the fruit of this freedom of expression and this ability to self-organize, he called and helped convene a consultation that was on November 9. And October 1 was also a reference, which the citizenry participated in. And the only violence exercised, physical, psychological and institutional, has been the exercise for the State. Because that's... you guys are in denial of a reality. Here the only ones who have screwed up, the only ones who have abused, the only ones who have made a misrepresentation of the public cabal, of the public cabals, have been those who have used the organization of the State for the brutal war waged against Catalonia. And that, sooner or later, will prove it. You ask me and ask me directly if I..., I will tell you that this citizenry, that of Catalonia, is peaceful, that it is manifest and acts civically and peacefully, as it has always done. And therefore, on what you ask me, whether I will tell you what is legal or not is legal, I will insist on one question: we have a responsible citizenship, which exercises its rights responsibly. And so, I'll tell you, so, of course, people are going to do a demonstration, they're going to do some demonstrations, they've asked permission, and they'll do them as they've always done, civically and peacefully. And the Government of Catalonia will guarantee – it will guarantee – that the Government of the Spanish State, therefore, can celebrate the Council of Ministers on the 21st of December. So simple and clear. You are committed to creating a mental_framework and parallel reality. You've been accusing us every time we live in Matrix, you've been living in Matrix a long time because all day you're talking about rape in a society that doesn't break a paper. [[applause]] , that the only ones who have broken down the paper – that the only ones who have broken down the paper – that the only ones who have cremated things, that the only ones who have stunned the city, the citizens who are passing through the street, have been those who have manifested themselves with you, Catalan Civil Society, that have links with the extreme right. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, Mr. Carrizosa; yes, that's it. And you can teach me photographs [[remorse of the voice]] You can teach me photographs that I don't know if you've done them. [[Widow's remorse.]] Why clearly, generate... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, yes. Miri, I'll tell you in another way, do you know what you should be questioning? That the Spanish State has been repeatedly sentenced for the Court of Human Rights, on November 6, 2018, not to guarantee a fair trial, not to guarantee the impartiality of a trial; on March 13, 2018, when it was sentenced to heavy penalties for cremating photographs of the king, compensation of the ages, of Barajas, also for torture, because the Spanish State did not investigate torture. Because, a state that doesn't complete with the right, it gets dumb. That, you have to agree, that he's being rude at these times because he doesn't comply with the current law. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. It does not comply with current law, because when it invents – when it invents – facts and makes them fit into the Penal Code at the time of hammers, this state is rotten, and therefore it hurts itself. I've answered him, Mr. Carrizosa, but I haven't answered what you want me to answer him. You want me to tell him that Catalan society is a violent society. So no. The only rape suffered by the citizens of Catalonia has been that which has exercised the Spanish State in various ways, physically, psychically and institutionally. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-17-2201.77.0	Thank you, Counselor. Exhausted this point of the order of the day, the session is suspended until tomorrow morning.
