ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.1.0	Good morning. The session begins. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before starting the order of the day, however, I must inform you, sadly, that on the 9th of April a woman was murdered, a victim of male violence in the municipality of Blanes. According to the official data of the Department of Interior, it is the first death victim of this year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime, which strikes us all and everyone, and expresses the most sincere condolences to their family members. So, I repeat today Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. In accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, I also remember the voting delegations of the Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva and Antoni Comín, who have delegated their vote to Mr Sergi Sabrià, spokesman for the Republican Parliamentary Group, and the delegation of the deputies Jordi Sánchez, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull and Carles Puigdemont, who have delegated their vote to Ms Elsa Artadi, spokesman for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Compliments accumulated from the expenditure assumption of the Parliament of Catalonia on 31 July and 31 December 2017]] [[237-00001/12 and 237-00002/12]] Once informed of this, let's move on to the first item on the agenda of the day that is the presentation and vote of the report on the compliment of the Parliament of Catalonia's expenditure assumption on July 31, 2017. If it seems to them, we would do it together with the report on 31 December 2017. [[Pause.]] Before it began, the vote on the two reports, not only that of 31 July, but also that of 31 December, will be substantiated. The Bureau, in accordance with Rule 37.3, letter h of the Rules of Procedure, has entrusted the presentation of both reports to the deputy intervener, in this case Mr Antonio Espinosa. Therefore, he has the word, to present them, the Spiny Lord, for a maximum time of intervention of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.2.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. As you all know, today I am speaking as an intervener and also representing the other two interveners elected for this chamber, Mr Narcis Clara and Mr David Rodríguez. My intervention is aimed at explaining the reports on the compliment of the assumption; in concrete terms, the correspondents to the third and fourth quarters of the fiscal year 2017, before being submissive, and if deemed appropriate, to their approval by this Ple. All of this, in addition to Rule 37 of this Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Before I begin the explanation, allow me to thank your work to the Oedoria de Comptes and to fill in the facilities given to us by the interveners to do our work. Really, thank you very much. Entering into the matter, the budget initially approved for the Parliament of Catalonia for the financial year 2017 was 53,650,703.80_euros, which was an increase of 0.94 according to the budget approved for 2016. In concrete terms, Chapter I, of staff expenditure, stood at EUR 26,695,114,17_, which represents 50_percent of the total. During the year 2017, the number of parliamentary administrators, archives and letters increased to cover some of the needs that were evident. In Chapter II, current and service expenses have been EUR 10,339,063, i.e. a 19_percent of the total budget. Chapter IV, of current transfers, represented 15,843,900_euros, a 30_percent of the total. Chapter VI, of real investments, amounted to 992,350_euros, a 2_percent of the total. And finally Chapter VIII, "Variation of financial assets, was the sum of 10,000 euros. From August 1st to December 31st – 2017, of course – there has been no change in credit that involves an increase in the presumption. Now, from the 1st generation to the 31st of July 2007, the table has authorized an incorporation of affected credit romants from the 2016 liquidation by import of 612,912.75_euro. It also approved a generation of credit for real investment chapter VI for an import of EUR 1,682,081.50. The modifications have led to an increase in the expenditure assumption of the Catalonian Parliament of 2,294,994,25_euros, which raises the defined assumption to the total import of 55,945,698,05_euros. And this difference in the presupposition has had a fundamental impact on two chapters: on the expenditure of current assets, which has risen in a global way already to 10,722,252,38_euros; and, for another band, to Chapter VI, of real investments, which has risen to 2,674,431,50_euros. Moving on to the presuppositional enforcement department, what we know, what we already have, is that import obligations of EUR 48,920,101,66 have been recognised, which implies a presuppositional execution of EUR 87,44. The low execution of Chapter IV, of current transfers, is due to the undeservedness of the subsidization of parliamentary groups in the dissolution period of Parliament. And the low execution of Chapter VI, of real investments, is due to the rate of processing and execution of the contract submission. Of the recognizable bonds, a payment of EUR 47,975,966,15 has already been made, and a 1.93_per_cent is still outstanding to pay. As practically in all assumptions there is a romant of credit resulting from the exercise 2017. In this case, it amounts to the amount of 7,025,596,39_euros, of which 1,896,903,49_euros are affected and are incorporable, so that the import of available credit romanent likely to be transferred to the romanent fund is 5,121,600,90_euros, which represents 9.17 of the defined presumption. Okay. Some details of the credit available..., therefore, in Chapter I, of staff expenditure, there are EUR 397,863.96; in Chapter II, « Current benefits and services expenditure, EUR 1,764,000_; in Chapter IV, « Current transfers, EUR 2,815,000; in Chapter VI, « Real investments, EUR 151,934_. The others? In these sayings that there were 7,025,596... Well, in these there is one part that I have explained, and the other, 1,895,903,49_euros are incorporable to the 2018 budget and respond to contracts with commitments of contracts and execution pending expenses and correspondents to the following chapter: Chapter II, « Current benefits and services expenses, 241,108,42_euros, and Chapter VI, « Real investments, the majority is, in total, 1,654,795,07_euros. Finally, I want to highlight the issue of contracting. The number of contract documents awarded during the financial year 2007 was 20. These shippers have been executed during the 2017 fiscal year and also during future fiscal years, and many of them have a multiannual nature or nature; from these contracts, derived from a March agreement, there have been 4, negotiated without publicity, there have been 3 and there have been 19. This is, to a great extent, the performance report and the compliment of the 2017 budget, for which I ask them, in my name and in the name of my group that I represent, as well as on behalf of the other two interveners and the groups that they represent, to approve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.3.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. Once this presentation is finished, ask them if they can approve by consent... [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Lady Sirvent, yes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.4.0	Yes; it is to position us with the CUP - Constituent Creed. As we have done other years, we will refrain from respecting these reports relating to the compliment of the premise, and that is why we call for the vote. We abstain, not because we are against the technical content of the reports relating to the compliment, but on the basis of the following considerations: first of all, and respect Chapter I of the Parliament's budget, which covers staff expenditure and which practically represents 50_percent of the total expenditure budget, we want to make it clear that this holds some remunerative realities which are concrete in gross salaries exceeding the annual amount of EUR 1 000. This is because it gives us the same premise not only leads us to demand the rationalization of these salaries, but also it is a clear proof that certain salaries, especially those of the high offices of the Parliament, are far removed from the current retributive reality to the principality, which, according to official data of the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia, does not go up to or so far as 24 500_euros per year. With regard to Chapter II..., and, for another band, we also want to make it clear that it is very contradictory that, while maintaining these absolutely unorthodox salaries, the Parliament is still betting on the outsourced management of services as a spending reduction policy. Because this reduction of expenses always ends up paying the same; ends up paying the workers, who see their working conditions reduced and therefore sees them precarious, and also sees the quality of the service they are providing precarious. And finally, and finally, and in relation to Chapter IV, we also want to denounce the oversize of the contributions that we make to parliamentary groups in the concept of subsidy, and we ask that these also be rationalized on the basis of social criteria, which are the criteria to which we believe we should respond to the premise of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.5.0	Well, at this event, we'll vote. So, first we call for a vote... [[Inés Arrimadas García asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am. I'm sorry you didn't see her.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.6.0	All right. A point of order, Mr President. The request for reconsideration by our parliamentary group with regard to the approval of the delegation of the Comin vote has just been rejected in the Bureau of Parliament. We want to say that we absolutely disagree with this Parliament giving prizes or privileges to those who skip the laws and those who run away from justice. The delegation of vote is not intended for those fleeing justice, fleeing justice who, in addition, live in another country, do not come to work and continue to collect from the public purse. Therefore, once the parliamentary channels have been exhausted, we want to make it clear that we will be filing an application for amparo with the Constitutional Court because of course we are making use of the party regulation and of course we sometimes have the feeling that the Bureau of Parliament functions more as the office of lawyers for the fugitives of justice than as the representatives of the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.7.0	All right. We're still voting. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] All right, we'll go to the vote. The record that we vote on the two reports, the one dated July 31, 2017 and the second, dated December 31, 2017, in the same vote. The vote begins. These reports were approved by 131 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. [[Decree Law 2/2018, of March 9, of recovery of part of the extraordinary and additional payment of the month of December 2012 of the public sector staff of the Generalitat de Catalunya]] [[203-00001/12]] Let's move on to the second point..., excuse me, to the third point of the order of the day, as we voted the first two, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree 2/2018, of March 9, of recovery of part of the extraordinary and additional payment of the month of December 2012 of the public sector staff of the Generalitat de Catalunya. I am sure that this decree and the subsequent decree have been dictated in the exercise of the functions assigned to it by Royal Decree 944/2017 of 27 October, for the Government of the State, which has announced that it will not carry out any intervention. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall therefore proceed to the intervention of the parliamentary groups in order to position ourselves. To fix his position, he has the word, for a maximum of two minutes per group and five for the subgroup, starting with the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.8.0	Thank you, President. Members, deputies, representatives of the USOC who accompany us today also, the next few days, the next few days it seems that we can and can discuss this return order from the public workers' extra pay and validate it. We did it a few days or a day before you expired the validation deadline. And we did this for a supposed occurrence of the independence bloc, a lover of the blockade, which we have not yet – at least – managed to hear. They can explain to us later, if they have time, who have followed the arguments that lead us to this type of time travel that makes us reach the approval limit of things that really should have been approved a long time ago. It also seems... – because it was one of the arguments – that neither... – already warns them, I think they already know it – neither will the minister come. He won't be here either. In fact, this way of acting, making public workers wait on any assumption that I have to see with their rights is a constant. And it's that today we find ourselves with a history full of incompliments, a history that disarrayedly doesn't even see it end today. We find ourselves with one of the reports that best explains the difficult consequences of the process. In fact, we find ourselves with a report that has advanced parallel to this process, and that has been clearly affected by it. This is a dual report, which makes us see that for every moment of the full road, born years ago, there has always been a moment of less reserve for public workers. We want to talk about a history of connections, with its beginning, its nakedness and its unfolding, a unfolding yet without an ending. It all starts, precisely, before the process. Because first – first – it was the details, it was the details of that government that some, with a lack of obvious modesty, named "the government of the best, of Mr. Mas". They generated the problem that today has not yet been, independence, able to face. The details started from that 2011 and 2012. The government of More was the first to detail the public function, and with it its servants, and it did more than anyone. The process was born just then, in 2012, as a perfect smoke curtain with which to store the already obvious corruption of Convergence and parallel stories that, like this, from the precariousness of the public function, continued to worsen, in a reality every time more distanced from the Reformist government and its always loyal member of the Republican Left. More details will arrive, the 2013 external payments, 2014 and other labor, social and economic rights that added to the formulas that the People's Party also used throughout Spain. At the time, in parallel, the government of Mas promised Ithaca, returned to 1714 and to its ancient regime or proposed a consultation like that of 9-N. I was still playing. All the less the better the conditions of the public servers. But let's go through the nude of these two parallel stories: the process and the clippings. In 2015, Catalan workers were mobilized or began to mobilize from the summer to demand the return of lost economic rights, as was also being done to the rest of Spain's administrations. Late in that 2015– and some who are here think they can't remember – this petition, which was asked and which was made to the government of the Lord But, it was denied and it was very, very obvious that there was no clear will to express or to listen to these claims that were produced to the rest of Spain as well. This blockade occurred, but at the same time – at the same time as Mr. Mas said that it was working and that he could not answer the public workers – they did begin to stop or draw the full route and its objectives, which we then saw in the next legislature. They decided and they decided future priorities, impossible promises, over a reality that they wanted to claim and that they did not find a government that listened to them. Upstairs Mr. Puigdemont, does not change sensitivity to public workers, and continues his full route, the same full visionary route of Mr. Mas. To counter this distancing from reality, together with the claim capacity of the workers, we present from Ciutadan and from the rest of the opposition a proposal for a resolution of the return of the rights of the public workers, as is the resolution that was approved, of the 20th generation of 2016, of the Parliament of Catalonia. In this resolution, approved with the favorable vote of all the groups of the chamber, all and the final opposition, or the initial one, because at the end practically were joined, at the last hour, the Junts for the Yes, it is, in this resolution, the Government of the Generality, to the return of this extra payment of 2012 and the timing of the payments of the 13th and the 14th, as well as the return of the rest of the rights that were taken to the workers during the years previewed. What happens after the approval of that democratic mandate of Parliament? Parliament's democratic mandate, huh? The blockade; the more than obvious will not to negotiate, not to assemble the public office table, simply telling us that there was no money. As most public administrations in all of Spain began to return or schedule the return of the economic, social and labour rights of public workers, here the Government of the Generality decided not to govern and not to exercise its competitions. Was there, therefore, a will to complete that resolution? No, no, There was no intention to complete that resolution either on the part of the Board of Governors or on the part of the Board of Economics. They were simply trying to buy time, leaving that resolution and its objectives hidden in the fall of the councils, if they did come out, with all the details and with sufficient resources, the plans prepared for the end of the September and October democracy. You did not match the recognition that you deserved those who had made the effort to keep our public service system under very harsh conditions. On the contrary, the public workers who first and foremost were told in rights to all of Spain, the Catalans, were in the way of being the last to recover them. This situation forced us to approve a second motion in May 2017. That reminded the Puigdemont government that they still did not deal with Parliament's agreements, such as the timing of the 2013 and 14 foreign payments. Two years to make a calendar – two years to make a calendar – which with that is all said. But it's ugly also a young man where it's ugly a claim exercise of what was going on in the civil service. It was recalled the precarious situation in which the group of public workers of the Administration of the Generality was found, with a temporality that grew a 4_per_cent from the beginning of 2016 until September 2017, and reached 26_per_cent, a 26_per_cent that stretches from 8_per_cent that unions, all unions, say that it is the right form of temporality because a public function functions correctly. While, yes, the process itself creased, and increased by 10_per_cent the number of high faithful placed to say. But this second young man also did not serve to solve some of the objectives that at those times were drawn even further away from the desires of a government that was looking for the outcome of the months of September and October that we finally found. That, yes, there was no doubt, at those times too, to pressure the public workers and to use the Administration of the Generality to achieve those objectives. The consequences of the unilateral declaration of independence – the sole objective of the Puigdemont government – we see them included in how this decree has reached us. We will vote in favour of the validation of this decree, but we cannot accept how we have arrived at the end or the day of today, and we must condemn the lack of proposals for the future. Result: a government, the government that unilaterally declared independence, was not able to complete with its workers. And that's all there is to it. Therefore, today there is no end, only a part of a raw development. I propose them, now that they seem lost, disoriented, without full route, that it is marquin like objects real and useful reptes. Here today they have an important one, which could stop being a collateral damage more than their fantasies. Thank you, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.9.0	Thank you, Mr. García. It is now the return of Mr. Marc Solsona to the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.10.0	Well, good morning to everyone. President, Members, Members, Secretaries-General of Government, representatives of the trade unions who are here or who are also listening to us today, I begin my intervention saying that last April 5th was to withdraw from the order of the day the validation of this decree read to petition different parliamentary groups – logically, also by petition, also by the Group of Junts for Catalonia – to ask the House of Commons for a legal report on compulsory status or not that the presentation of these decrees has to do which, by virtue of 155, assumes the functions and powers that correspond to the governing council of the Government of Catalonia. First consideration: do we have a right to request a report from the press? Yeah, we got it right. Is it a risk to get the pay back? No, don't put it at risk. Therefore, if we have a right to request a report from the readers and the request for this report does not jeopardize the recovery or validation of this decree, it seems to me, therefore, that we do not need to make such apocalyptic interventions in the plenary yesterday, while the world was over if we did not approve it then. Therefore, a copy read the report and the specific head of the same report, with a warning in a box of people suspected of dubting, where it is noted that, above all, this report can only be applied to this consultation in concrete – curios –, it was not the case that the accumulation of reasons could lead to any error or that approval of the incomparability decrees could lead, as the report says, to different legal absurdities. Well, it's probably absurd all folded up. And sometimes the hyperjustification of absurdity still makes it a little more absurd. But I will continue this intervention just as I wanted to set up April 5th, if it could not be removed the point of the day. And it would be the following way: ask all of us who we need to address today to defend or debate this point. We wonder if the defence of the rights of Members and parliamentary control, that so many fill their mouths, if that is so. I repeat: let's ask ourselves whether the rights of the Members, that some of them fill their mouths, and of parliamentary control of government action, if that is so, this model of debate. The Government of 155, which corrects this decree in order to be able to say that the officials will have recovered the 2012 pay that the lack of graces in article 155, is not worthy nor to appear to defend it. Is that respect for the rights of parliamentarians and parliamentary control? Certainly – and I am referring to the subject of parliamentary control – a parliamentary control which we cannot exercise, and which, therefore, cannot ask us, for example – for example – why the Generality is in addition to the requests against President Mas for 9 November to the Court of Auditors. I'm in parentheses. Because they, this Government of 155, do not appear here basically because they do not want to, they do not have the Parliament of Catalonia, they display their government signature with a decree from the distance and without comparison. And all that in the sense of what? Authority, power, or underprivileged? Here there are Members and Members who cannot participate in parliamentary debates because they are in prison or in exile. On the other hand, those who say it's barbaric to put aside a president with all his intact political rights allow the luxury of not even appearing here, neither they nor by delegation, here, in his parliamentary office. In fact, neither the minister came – reminded Mr. García – nor the vice president, nor the delegate of the government, nor a secretary of state; none. Therefore, acts like this one today give a clear and transparent understanding of the sense of institutional and parliamentary respect that the Spanish government of the PP and its allies of 155 have to this chamber and all of us. Today, what is being endorsed is that the future Government of the Generality should not come to explain or defend any of its decrees. What's wrong? Or if the one who doesn't defend the laws of the Government of the Generalitat, if he doesn't, then he will be violating the rights of the deputies? Jo, what you're asking for is a little bit... a little bit more rigour and above all that we have here today at the memory of our own parliamentary sessions. We find this regrettable; unpublished and anomalous, this situation. This 20.77_per_cent pay return was agreed with the unions since June 2016. Therefore, it is not a decision taken as a result of the application of 155, but rather the form of a government agreement that was made at the time with the unions. We also gave it to put it in value and recognize the return for trams that went on since the year 2015. In a normal situation, this debate of today would not have it, basically because without 155 the presupposition of 2018 would have incorporated this agreement with a game, automatically, to the presuppositions; but given that there is 155 and the parliamentary extension, it is therefore motivated by the urgency of this decree. The political authority of the 155 led to deception is manifested in a whole series of statements from those here today who did not want to defend this decree. Therefore, it gives us to understand that speaking to the press yes, but in parliamentary debate it does not. That is why we denounce the political use of this decree, in statements, for example, made by the Vice-President of the Spanish Government, Sáenz de Santamaría, who said the following: "The central government is making decisions; it is paid on time and the public services are functioning, pursuant to Article 155, and normality is such that we have even returned the extra payment. Or the same spokesman, Íñigo Méndez de Vigo, who said: "By virtue of the application of the 155, Decree Law of recovery of part of the extraordinary pay of 2012. The Government, using 155, has contributed to the recovery of all public workers. And, of course, we can't rely on a sequence of statements and not add them to the government delegate, the Enric Millo, who I hope, as I say, I won't be persecuted later. But in any case, what did he say? He said: "This agreement will serve for these workers to receive in a single payment the equivalent amount of 20,77_per_cent of the amount they stopped receiving for the cuts. Millo has explained that it was an indefatigable measure to compensate for the sustained effort of public workers who saw their wages reduced. We said so because all of this in the end leads us to much that... a subject that should be an issue of agreement administered by the labour system takes on a top-level political dimension. And that's why we asked for the report, because those who fill their mouths afterwards didn't want to come here. If we add to it the fiscal deficit, the economic focus applied to us by the Spanish State, the generality's financial intervention before 155, we will see and we can say that Catalonia would have had the ability to return more and better the pending payments to the public workers. Now I can still return the 13th and 14th. The government committed itself to it, and logically it will do so, and it is in this period, therefore, of timing to be able to do so. A very sincere and sincere thanks, too, as it cannot be in any other way, to all the public workers who have also suffered this anomaly, huh? , the result of many considerations, but in any case it is continuing. And I finish my speech, and also from the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia, citing President Puigdemont, who, before the complexity and adversity, tells us that we will not give up, that we will never give up and that we will never give up before the illegitimate performance of those who have lost to the polls or before the arbitrariness of those who are willing to pay the price to abandon the state of law and justice for the unity of the country. So, with our heads up and our eyes wide open, we are working to put a definitive end to this abuse that involves the application of Article 155. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.11.0	Thank you, Mr. Solsona. Now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mr. Chakir the Homrani's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.12.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, representatives of the Workers' Union of Catalonia, I can't start this intervention without starting it as we always start it and as we always started it from the Republican Group when we talk about the workers and public workers: make them a recognition; make them a recognition for their efforts, make them a recognition for the sacrifices that have touched them in these years of difficult economic situation, very hard. And this grace, this recognition, we always have to do it and we never have to forget it. And this time, besides, we have to add another recognition and another thanks to these public workers and workers, to these public servants and servers, to those people who are dedicated to public service and who are the people who are keeping the country's institutions at these difficult and exceptional times, because they are applying a 155 illegitimate that affects us all. And that especially these public workers and workers are the ones who manage to get the institutions through this half-year of anomalous, indecent situation. I can't avoid it, they can't normalize it. It's a very tough situation. And this recognition is also for all public workers who are dragging the institutions of this country. Look, today we're validating a decree. We will validate a decree that is a step in the face of the fact that what ends is..., in a circle surrounding a motion for a resolution that was the first motion for a resolution that was debated in this Parliament in the previous parliamentary term, that was later brought to the sphere where they are to be carried and to the area where they are to work, which is at the table of public office. And it is in the role of collective bargaining between the representatives of public workers and public workers and the Generality where these agreements are to be shaped. The resolution was approved by the 15th generation. I remember her pretty well. I don't have any selective memory. I remember quite well how this resolution was negotiated. I remember well enough how groups said you spoke directly to the unions and how we spoke to the unions and reached agreements. And we came to some agreements because we've always wanted to be serious people and that what we approve of can be accomplished. He came to these agreements and voted unanimously. Later on, at the public service table was negotiating the materialization of this motion for a resolution with whom the right is close, who are the representatives of the workers and the public workers, and in June came to an agreement, with a timetable for the return of the 2012 pay, with a recovery of vacation days by old age, of free days by old age. It was applied, with calendars. And today there is a decree that goes through this work; it goes through the work done by this chamber, which is the chamber that sovereignly represents Catalans and Catalans, which represents all the citizens of this country, and the work that was done at the table of public office, which is the place where the representatives of the workers, the unions that have a representation of more than 15 per cent and the Government of the Generality are close. All of an absolute normality. But we find ourselves a decree signed by the Vice President of the Government, Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría. And this reminds us of this: that we are ahead of a 155. And I think it's so hard to explain that this decree marks a person, the vice president, that her political force, which represents, only has four out of 135 deputies in this House, is so hard to explain it from the point of view of democratic values, that it can't explain – it can't explain. All the normality of a negotiation in a parliamentary chamber, of a negotiation at the table of public office between unions and the Administration, all this normality is truncated with this reality. And it is a reality that cannot be explained democratically: four Members of 135– four Members of 135. It's just that from time to time we have to remember. And we need to remember why all of us here represent the citizens who have voted and who have decided how many deputies and deputies have every political force. And if I forget, we are lacking in respect for them. And it's important to remember. And this anomaly, this anomaly that is absolute, is an anomaly that is incardinated with a 155 that has consequences and we cannot forget them. It has consequences – it has consequences –: hundreds of people ceased; more than... – I have been pointed out to be accurate –, more than ninety activities cancelled or suspected; more than twenty-four agencies intervened; bodies suppressed and dissolved; normative initiatives lapsed, more than a hundred legislative initiatives lapsed; assignments to contracts, more than never; lines of subsidies touched on for this 155; bureaucratic work for these felt workers and public workers, which they offend – and another time recognition. It's just that these are the figures that this 155 carries. And for this reason, just as we have to appreciate and recognize the efforts of public workers and workers during these years who have suffered, many times unwarranted, detailed of their working conditions, we have to recognize them because it is they and they who are pulling institutions into these difficult times. Look, it wouldn't be fair and honest to remember how it came to this deal... to say we make a pass, but it's not a final pass, not much less. It's not a final pass, and we have to say it. And we must recognize that there have been difficulties at the time of negotiation, but that this negotiation gives fruit; but that we have dues pending. And we have very clear pendings: we have the extraordinary pay of 2013 and 2014, we have the possibility now that with the last change made by the state government has returned autonomy in collective bargaining to public office, to be able to address the various problems that public workers have in a more direct way, and to arrive at agreements. He's got to come up with chords around here. And where's the neighborhood? At the public service table. And what's near this chamber? Pushing and controlling what has been done, what has been done in the previous legislature and what has borne some fruits, which are the 2012 pay, the holiday days for old age and the free days for old age. It's not a culmination, not much less. We have a duet with public workers and public workers. We have made a step forward, but we do not forget that we have more rights and that we need to continue working because of the servers and public servants, because those people who have a public service vocation – and it is important in any country or society – have the best possible conditions and return the rights they have lost these years. Many thanks, company and company. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.13.0	Thank you, Mr. El Homrani. It is the return, now, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. It's the turn of Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.14.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. So, as some Member who preceded me has said in the paragraph, it is true that today we have a ple that we may have been relieved if on April 5 the majority of groups of this chamber, the independent majority, did not withdraw two points from the order of the day. And he did it, it seems, for two reasons– or this he explained to us and, today, somehow he referred to us –: One, he said, because there was no government to present this decree, and the other, because it could not be discussed the content of these decrees with a government. And it's true that there was no government that could present this. But it is also true that in the report that was asked of the readers it is very clear that the presentation made by a government, in the case that there is – here or there – it should only be – only – to present the urgency, not the content of the decree; and it explains it very well. The Statute of Autonomy says that for the decrees you have to make a debate and vote and it is in the Rules where the presentation for the government is incorporated with the topic of urgency, not the content. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, Mr Batet; yes, I read the reports and do the work, which is what concerns the deputies. And, therefore, the Statute of Autonomy says: "Debate and vote. And the Rules say: "Presentation of the government for urgency. For the emergency, we know what the emergency was. I don't think that you need a lot of debate and a lot of legal reports, do you? We all know what was the urgency, which is that at the generation of 2016 a resolution, which was approved in this Parliament mostly on the initiative of many opposition groups, led to the timing of the payment or payment of the 2012 payment that had been suspected, is true, the government Mas l'any 2011-2012. And, in this ugly calendar, the last part was paid in the first quarter of 2018 and to Mr Sabrià I told him the other day, he will have to remember why I had an important discussion with him, because it seemed to us that this 2012 payment would end up paying 2017. But, well, we agreed that it was the first quarter of 2018; we are no longer complete, because it will end up paying, I suppose, I hope, at the end of this month of April and, therefore, we are not going to the second quarter. But in any case, tell Mr. Chakir the Homrani who, listen to one thing, says to you: "A resolution that is approved, collective bargaining... Yes, we are totally in agreement. But you know why that resolution came out here. It comes out because the unions come to see us. It comes about because the unions ask all parliamentary groups for a meeting, and they ask that, please, we interact with the government, because they are not listening to their petitions, because the collective negotiation is not being negotiated, they are not feeling flexible and they are not asking for solutions on the table. And we made that resolution to the union petition. We don't like to stay in collective bargaining, we'd just miss it. But when the government does not listen, and does not listen two years ago..., because it has evolved very little, so little, Mr. Marc Solsona, that the government still does not have a schedule to pay the 2013 and 2014 pay; not tea. Neither 155 nor other stories. By October 27, the government could have scheduled the 2013 and 2014 pay, and it did not. I don't blame 155 things you don't blame. You could have made a payment schedule, and you didn't. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, I understand... It is true, 155 is certainly carrying some problems, perhaps not as many as we think, but, listen, the government, until October – until October – ruled. ♪ Or won't rule ♪ [[relays]] , because what is clear is that, in this case, we do not have calendars or return of payments 2013-2014 or other rights suspected as IT, holiday days, permits... I would also like to ask a question, because on the report it is said, it is true, that this decree law is the State, is the Vice President and Minister Montoro. But you also say the report – that, Mr Solsona, you do not forget – that the intellectual articles of the content of this decree are the levels that are not ceased from the Administration of the Generality, among others, the General Secretariat of Public Service, which is here today, Mr. Meritxell Masó. Therefore, the content of the fan they, send it and Madrid the sign, and well done it does, because, listen to me, they had to complete a resolution. Because I also say one thing: listen, the Vice-President, so you have to have your skills, many skills, but I don't think it's superwoman to know who Parliament's resolutions are to be made to give effect to what is approved here. Surely, she didn't know and someone prepares these decrees and sends them to Madrid, and Madrid signs them. It's just, in the end, it seems like they're doing things there, too, without us knowing. No, no, These two decrees, this one that we are now validating and what we will then validate, are working from the Government of the Generality, from these levels never ceased; they are sent to Madrid and Madrid sign them. You'd just miss it, wouldn't you? Since a government has ceased and, it is true, there is application of 155, which do their job. But don't mess things up. I think it is important that we do not confuse them, because, as the report says, the intellectuals of these decrees are the levels that have not ceased from the Administration of the Generality and I think that this would be good for us to be clear. And I would like to add something else – that you certainly forgot – that says the report, that the Generality is State in Catalonia. And so, sometimes, when we make this criticism so hard on the State... no, it's that we're State Administration here, and so, so... all the obligations, all the rights to, obviously, bring this decree down here to validate. Because it is true, it comes into force, but if the validation is not a derogation, this one and the one that will come later. So, with this, frankly, we believe that what you did the other day was gesticulation. You are dedicated to managing your symbolology, your actions before, so the theater in which you have put us all, but what you do not do is govern and manage reality. And what they should do is this. Surely, if you did this, Mr Solsona, who would have signed this decree to be able to pay the last part of the 2012 pay, you followed a government of the Generalitat, with a councillor, I don't know if you, who tell him that it will be the government, so good, because with you it is true that we can talk and, surely, we could talk, but in any case, if there was a government of the 30 generation, that day, you, or the counciler that you were, could have signed this decree, and not the government of Madrid, through 155. Therefore, at these moments, the responsibility that 155 continues here on the table, that in this signature the vice president is of the independence majority; for this reason I look at you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, man, they make government and that decree you signed. If, then, the vice president does politics with this, then, well, anyway, here we are all doing politics, don't we? It will seem better or worse to us, but this decree could have been signed by you and you didn't want it, because there is no government. Let's hope before May 22nd we have this government. In any case, I wanted them, obviously, to confirm that, since it cannot be otherwise, we would validate..., we would vote affirmatively for the validation of this decree. But I would also like to say that there are still a lot of suspicions pending. I have not said a few: the timing of the two payments; there are still some assumptions of temporary disabilities; holiday days; days of permits which are not yet scheduled, which have not yet raised their suspensions. We'd have to work with that. Let us hope that there is a government that has another sensitivity to what has happened in the last two years, because it has not been sensitized in collective bargaining, at the public service table, to negotiate, to reach agreements. That's what the unions told us day after day. And, therefore, I would ask them, there are many days left, because you make a government that has sensitivity when it conforms because this counselor has sensitivity. Because, listen to one thing, I will also tell the Members who preceded me in the paragraph, we do have to recognize the work of the employees, and so much so, but the recognitions are not only good for applause, the recognitions are also good for improving the working conditions and returning to what is theirs. It's good to give a slap on the back, escort. Clearly, all the recon, but we return the payments, raise suspicions. That's what we have to do. That's it. And it seems to me that it is also our condition as representatives of the people of Catalonia. And so, in this sense, I ask you, please, to make the government, that this decree law, very well, is validated, but that we are still able to negotiate, agree and agree to collective bargaining all these rights suspected and these payments that we have not yet been able to schedule. And so that's what's urgent and that's what I hope you're doing your own government; like there's no choice, so you're doing what you have the opportunity to make up this government and start solving Catalonia's problems and managing reality, even though they don't like it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.15.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. It's Mrs. Susana Segovia's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.16.0	Good morning, everybody. MPs, MPs, President, every day that happens, this room looks more like a time machine: we live with the future blockade, we don't get out of here, with a present that is like a loop and it ended forever. There are constant journeys in the past. The first trip does not bring us back, it has already been mentioned, brings us to the 5th of April, when there was once a ple of the Parliament of Catalonia that had to debate and validate the decree that today occupies us, in order to guarantee the payment of the third part of the 2012 extra pay of public workers. But you go here, too, it has been commented, that the independence forces, surprisingly, decided to ask for the withdrawal of the points because they were not clear that they were completing the Rules. The Rules were the same as the day that the Board of Spokesmen and the Bureau gave the points to the order of the day, so we don't understand what it was that changed on those two days, because, half an hour before, I came all nervous because it was my first intervention and half an hour before I realized that I can already relax, that I won't talk that day. Those who say things in public and in private different, say in private that it's ugly because we would have government soon before Sant Jordi, because that was already playing and because they wanted someone to sign the decree in Catalonia, right? , someone from the institutions of Catalonia's self-government. So, we're on April 25th, the decree is the same and the same person signs and the same place. Four months have passed, therefore, from the 21st of December. As Mrs Romero said, it could have been different, it could have been done before, I complete the calendar and not one_me later, with an effective government in Catalonia and with a councillor that signed from Barcelona. Come on, now, a little closer, a little more far, but not so far, right? , it has already been mentioned, when..., DeLorean, machine of time, and we go to 2012, when the worst social details that there were at the time of the economic crisis were executed in Catalonia. It's not the first time, is it? Let's make this trip. In fact, mentally, we've done it a few times that sounded like a possible name for the presidency of the Government of Catalonia one of the people who advised the Government of the Artur Mas and of the Councillor Mas-Colell, as an advisor in these retails, Mrs. Artadi, and then these trips in the past are continuing to make them. Now we're talking about the 2012 pay slip. A statement that the Lord Most first said: « We bring the 5_per_cent of the pay of civil servants and public workers. Finally, Mr. Rajoy... son! So go for the right, and tell him to cut Nadal's extra pay. So, it's no longer 5_per_cent; that's what we're doing. At that time, curiously, Mr. But and Mr. Rajoy were enough at one, they shared a lot of what was the focus they had on how to make adjustments, austerity policies and economic retailing, which were basically based on the retailing of social rights. Because, in total, people can handle everything. Hi, ladies and gentlemen of Convergence? I mean, the PDECAT. In fact, the coincidences of interests between the representatives of the PDECAT or Convergence are still with the PP. In fact, we saw it yesterday, at the Congress of Deputies, when they voted together the law that allows express denunciation in cases of occupation. In this case, without, one more time, guaranteeing the resources to reallocate vulnerable people who use the occupation because they do not have more resources to access the housing, and also without giving structural response to the housing crisis that this country has experienced. That, yes, one thing did make Mr Rajoy different, and it is that, even though it is by pure and hard electoralism, before the June 2016 elections, he decided to pay all the rest of the state the pay that was pending. That, Mr. But and Junts' governments for Catalonia didn't do it. But it wasn't just that. That's to say, Mr. But, in this case, Mr. Rajoy's right forward, too, and decided that, in addition, he would cut the 2013 and 2014 payments – more still. So we're not talking about it yet; we're not talking about public service – that's what we're talking about. That's, somewhere, forgotten. I remember that when the retail began, I was working at the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation, one of the people we worked for the Government of Catalonia carrying out cooperation policies in development. And we were very outraged at how it was said that public workers, like at least, had stabilized, that we didn't complain, that people didn't have a job. So, listen, a little bit of sacrifice in the soul, a gesture of generosity with the country. It was unbelievable, but it was true, if you think that directly. I haven't been able to clean it up, have I? Because, in addition to the payment details, it was 15_percent of the entire staff's day. And in my case and in the case of many other people, above all, they took us in. Because the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation made an ERO, it was one of the first public institutions of the Generality to be joined by public workers for economic reasons, a public agency for development cooperation. At the agency we were forty-five companies and companies, but there were many more in the rest of the Government of the Generality. We were the people we made possible..., who make policies possible to the Generalitat de Catalunya, are the people who follow our girls to the schools, are the people who manage the policy of residue, who face the episode of contamination as we are now about to have, the people who carry out the policy of habitating – that we no longer remember, because it is nothing, it seems that it is no longer the competence of the Generalitat, but that it is still. These are the people we sacrifice and ask: "Please make an effort for the country. It is the families of the public workers, who are the ones who have to bear the highest cost of the schools in Brazil because the Generalitat does not set up a euro three years ago; it is also the ones who pay for it. It is the families who, many of whom, spend more than 40_percent of their tickets to pay for an logue that only last year has put up a 17_percent half-year in Catalonia, and who cannot pay it and who make it out and who have to change barriers, schools and cities. They are also the families who have to pay the highest university taxes in the whole of the State. Those who miss the waiting lists or pay a private mutual when they can – and if they cannot, therefore, endure the pain. It is the families that help their parents and pensioners who have lost the highest purchasing power in the past. It is the families who have also lost more than 20 percent of their purchasing power in these years and who have been hard to recover it. These families were asked for a sacrifice because they had work, they had been disabled. So if you already have a right to work guarantees, so it doesn't matter that from the other side we make a little bit of a big view. With these families the country has a debt: not a debt, no, a debt. Six years later, I insist, six years later, only a small part of the debt is returned. But it is these people, with the extra pay, who made a loan to the country; they advanced money that was not from the government, that was theirs, and they advanced them because they demanded a sacrifice. The loans are coming back and we're going late, we're going too late, because, as has already been said, neither is talking about 2013 nor 2014. We have a very big debt and we have to move on. Who'd imagine, on that trip in the past, right? , of the 2016 Parliament of the Gener – which signed this resolution that also today bring us here –, that when finally the calendar of the third payment of the extra payment of 2012 is concrete is signed to Madrid and the signatory the Lady Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría. This decree up late and up signed in Madrid. And that, I told you, could have been avoided. And yet it can prevent us from continuing to live in situations as we are today. We would vote in favour of it – obviously, it couldn't be any other way – but we do it with an aggressive feeling: we do it with anxiety, we worry about it, because it is 155 that is still in force. Because we are very concerned and understand the exceptional situation of the independence forces who are here and who have people in prison or who have people who are forced to go abroad and cannot return to Barcelona. But we don't have to go on like this. That is to say, we ask ourselves to pull forward, that we are all aware that what we now approve is enough, but it is not all, that there are still many details to reverse that they were certified for the last assumptions that were approved the year passed by the independence forces and the explicit support of the CUP. What would be fair is that this chamber can choose a government, that it can be an effective government, that can bring some social presuppositions to debate. And that's what we ask of those who can do it, who have the duty and the duty and the right to do it, more so. We hope to be able to hear here, in a debate of investiture, the promises and proposals of government made by Mr Turull in an investiture that, unfortunately, was failed for the judicialization of politics. We hope that this will be soon, very soon; that it will be a government that we can hold before May 22, and we will avoid this country that can repeat another time some elections that will not necessarily lead us out of this blockade. It is in the hands of this Parliament if this legislature will finally close the door to a dark stage of social rights detailing that has brought us so far here and that we must get out of it. It is at our hands to be a machine of the time that goes past or that goes into the future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.17.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. It is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.18.0	President..., Members, Workers in Parliament and Workers in Parliament, as the previous question we want to send all the solidarity to the companies of the Interunion CSC, which at the present time is in a judicial situation – in a judicial situation – with a petition submitted that they intend to illegalize the right of vacancy and that demands compensation of damages and damages, only and exclusively, to ensure that in good measure they correspond to the union, that it is to be able to represent the workers and workers and to make calls for vacancy. All our solidarity with the companies and companies of the Interunion - CSC. We also wanted to make it very clear that, obviously, beyond what intervention with 155 means, an element that should not be questionable, and beyond what the decree came from the Government of the Spanish State, we would vote in favour of this validation. But we wanted to make, too, an explanation of the origins, and not only of the formal origins, but of the material origins. And the material origins are not really as simple as the ones we are here or the ones that were here years back; it is the policies of the troika, which say at a certain time what is to be done, and which is later carried out by Members and Members. And we want to insist, too, that we already hope, not only 2012, certainly, also 2010. And someone should remember that we were voting here on June 2010, which meant less than 5 percent of the public sector. Someone should remember, because it didn't all start in 2012, here it was also approved in 2010. They tell us that this would help because the public sector is in a better position and to pay economically. Unfortunately, the reality that popular classes see is not this and the daily suffering, obviously, is the reality of our barrels and our cities. We also want, yes, to talk about questions that are not purely substantive, but formal. And in formality, the approval of this rule has an enabler in two actions: that of the People's Party to the Spanish Government and that of the Government of that time to the Government of Catalonia. Certainly, absolutely illegal; illegal, in the first place, because it assumed the non-retroactive character of unfavourable standards. That's to say, what had already been generated, which was the merit of the extra pay, was expropriating. Interestingly, what would it say if the CUP were expropriating, effectively, by the People's Party? They did expropriate the rights of workers and public workers. And also, and it was said so by international institutions, to do some actions that even meant respecting the consultation with the representatives of the workers and of the workers. For what it does to the concrete question of which we will validate today, we would not want to forget either, and there has already been reference, that there was a resolution, the 7/XI, of the Parliament of Catalonia, which, for one band, recovered – or rather it made it very clear that it had to recover – the 2012 pay, but it also established other obligations. And in the other obligations, among others, there was that the general civil service table is convened and that a recovery schedule for payments eliminated in 2013 and 2014 is presented. We will not say that this table has not been called, because we have knowledge that it has been called; but what we are asking is that it is already possible – and that before it was possible, before 155, but even so, partly through 155, or with the reality of 155– to enter into an agreement with the representatives of the workers, even though it is conditional in the form that the payment is made. Therefore, the calendar and the obligation emanating from this Parliament of Catalonia is possible to do so. We also say that this is not the case, because not even at the state level the People's Party has any type of sensitivity to the public sector, nor here what until now was the Junts Government for the Yes, in the previous legislature, we consider that you are showing absolute sensitivity to the workers and workers in the public sector. And from the CUP - Creed Constituent day, in a very clear way, that we will only have a society of justice if it bets on a strong public sector. And that, obviously, also goes so far as to hold this public sector strong that workers and workers have decent wages, and not just decent wages, but a job rehabilitation. It cannot be the level of temporality that we have in the public sector, which is poorly endemic and which we all come here to say that we are against, but that we do not have effective measures to stop being a reality in the public sector. Sense doubt, yes to recover the pay that the PP government enabled to eliminate and that later executed the Government of the Government of Catalonia; but sense doubt, too, build a public sector like palar de repubblica. Diem, in a very clear way: "We will not build a republic if we do not have a powerful public sector, and we will not build a republic if we do not offer quality public services for the popular classes. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.19.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. It is the turn, now, of Mr Alejandro Fernández, for his Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.20.0	Thank you very much, President. What really happened twenty days ago when you decided to postpone the debate and approval that we are holding today? What really happened was that they decided not to miss a new opportunity to pose a victimistic scenario. The idea was very clear, it was necessary to blame « Madrit – finished in te – that for twenty days the public workers would not receive the pay because of the government's failure to appear in parliamentary office. That was the goal. What happens is that the lawyer's report dismantles it; once again, its grotesque strategies. What does the counsel's report say? What the counsel's report points out is that not only was it not essential for the Government to appear under Article 155, but if you insisted on that way of not holding the debate you might be violating the rights of Members of this House. Finally, that you are violating the rights of Members of this House is nothing new, you carry it on a regular basis. The problem is that they have gone a step further and have been violating the rights of public workers in Catalonia for twenty days. And someone will say: "There are not many days. Yeah. Neither you, nor I, nor any Member of this House, have the right to play for twenty days, three, three hundred, whatever it is, with money that is not ours, which belongs to the public workers of Catalonia. You have no right to play. The public workers of Catalonia have families; they make consumer decisions under the legal certainty and the certainty provided by the public administration. Precisely what you have been carrying for twenty days. It's absolutely unacceptable what you've done, I'm sorry to have to tell you with that contundence. This debate is proof that the balance sheet of the application of Article 155 is one of those examples of the sidereal distance book that sometimes occurs between reality and debate, when it is poisoned, as unfortunately happens here. We are presented with Article 155 as the seven plagues, and it turns out that the data point to the opposite. In October 2017, the Government of the Generalitat was absolutely paralyzed except for one thing: you were in the preparations and propaganda of what we might call a postmodern insurrection. That's what you were very applied to. But, on the other hand, non-payments of up to four years were accumulated in municipalities and social entities in Catalonia, and, worse still, tons of excuses, reproaches, to try to justify the unjustifiable. Paralysis and bad government. The application of Article 155 has not been a spa, nothing is in the current Catalan policy, but it has had some balsamic effects. The CIS of February 2018 points out that the concern for the political situation in Catalonia is twenty points lower than in November 2017. And it has had a dynamizing effect on public management. That is the reality, beyond the catastrophes and demagogies they pose. Twenty-four councils of ministers, 186 agreements on health, education, occupation or justice. Also a package of public service care measures, which is part of this decree for the recovery of the last instalment of the December 2012 extra payment. It is a total amount of EUR 1,370_million. Where before there were only reproaches and excuses, today there are solutions. You're right when you say that this agreement was concluded with the unions in 2016, but they had almost half 2016 and almost whole – until October 27 – 2017 and they didn't pay – they didn't pay. They had almost a year and didn't pay. It has been shown that they were lying, also to Catalan public workers. The money was there – the money was there – but you wasted it on other things. Rivers of millions of euros, for example, in the Foreign Council. In return, zero international recognition, zero, in one of the most catastrophic and ruinous political operations of contemporary politics. In short – in short – what we all need, and what would be good and convenient, is that there would be a new government in Catalonia and that 155 would end its existence, and in that we agree I see that not all, but a good part of this chamber. Among other things, because, after what we've seen in these months, they won't be able to make excuses about money again, they won't be able to waste anything on useless chimeras anymore, and maybe that's why they don't want to rule, they don't have much interest in doing it anymore, because they won't be able to do what they've been doing for the past two years. That must be the question. This decree law marks the way of what is a good government, which fulfills the commitments, that which you did not do for a year, fulfils the commitment to which you had arrived with the unions. It is a decree law that portrays them, portrays them, and I am very afraid that the image that returns the mirror to them is not exactly comforting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.21.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. We shall now proceed to the vote. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] We'll start the vote. Before I recall that it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the law decree and that the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. Let us then proceed to the vote. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Given the result, therefore, it is validated. And in any case close to asking the chamber if any parliamentary group wants this decree to be passed as the bill. Don't you? [[Pause.]] Therefore, as long as there is no petition in this sense, it will not be dealt with as the bill. This decree is hereby validated. [[Decree-Law No 1/2018 of 9 March 2018 on the financial needs of the public sector for budgetary prorogation]] [[203-00002/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 1/2018, of March 9, of the financial needs of the public sector for budgetary prorogation. As was the case with the previous decree, I am sure that the Government of the State has made it known that no representative will intervene. Let us therefore move on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to position ourselves, initiating the interventions, on the part of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.22.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this, as you see, is my first intervention from this atrium, it is my first intervention as a Member, which contrasts with the antiquity and veteranship of the decree we are debating today, since it is one of the most recurrent in this Parliament; it is a decree that has been repeated for eight years consecutively, and this year, moreover, without any justification, we have debated it or presented it twice. Firstly, to tell them that it is a decree that should be used in a totally exceptional way; an exceptionality that acts only when a government does not present or fails to approve a budget within the legally established time frame, or already, directly, there is no government, which is the case for us. And in such cases it is the obligation to extend the budget for the previous year. And it is, of course, exceptional because of the consequences of the lack of a budget, which is the most important law passed by a parliament, which allows it to make policy for the benefit of all Catalans. But do you know why we are really here today debating the Public Sector Financial Needs Decree in budgetary extension? Well, I'm telling you, we're here because the Administration of the Generalitat of Catalonia is in a state of bankruptcy. And this decree is an instrument that authorizes the Generalitat to resort to the FLA, the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, which is the only place where a broken administration like ours can find funding. And, of course, we have to ask ourselves why they cannot find financing, why the Generalitat cannot go to the financial markets as other public bodies do, why the only funding the Generalitat can rely on is that available to the central government of the State. Well, for the simple reason that the rating of the Generalitat's debt is below the garbage bond, and obviously no one wants it. But, of course, all of that has some responsibility. Do you remember the end of 2010? At that time the government of Mr.Artur Mas denounced the inheritance received from the government formed by PSC and Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. And they certainly received a budget that was difficult to manage; the debt was about 30,000_million_euros, with an economy in clear recession. But it is also appropriate for citizens to know that today, eight years later, the generalitat's public debt is over €77,000_million. That means, in absolute terms, that Catalonia is the most indebted community in all of Spain. And it is not only the most indebted autonomous community, it is an autonomous community with an extended budget. Perhaps from the separatist ranks I will be told that we live in exceptional moments as to be busy preparing budgets or reducing the debt that we Catalans bear, and it is true, I have to give them the reason, the moment is exceptional. The first, because it is exceptional that in this Parliament some parties have shown no doubt when it comes to jumping over democratic rules in order to try to impose their ends. And the second reason that exceptionality gives is that, at the moment, four months have passed since the last elections, we still have no autonomous government. Although, to tell you the truth, I have to tell you that we have been without a government since we moved from having a nationalist autonomous government to having a committee obsessed with the separation of Catalonia from the rest of Spain and the European Union. Because that is where the old Convergence was installed, after seeing it cornered by the social mobilizations that were called to protest for having applied the most antisocial budget cuts in history and for all the corruption that was emerging from his party. From that moment on management was completely abandoned, the stellate was embraced and the process in which we are immersed began. That explains eight consecutive years of governments unable to start a budget on time. Since then we have neither had a budget in time nor had budgets capable of solving the economic and social problems of Catalonia. And I'm telling you at this point, and after eight years, it's time to start being aware that it's most likely that those that aren't really exceptional are the parties that have ruled in our community to date. At this point, they must have realised that there is no large enough stellate to cover €77,000 million in public debt. Look, the really exceptional thing about democracy is that those who have to act responsibly to solve problems according to legality benefit from their position to try to break the state that legitimizes them, and even more so given that history shows that these kinds of goals, as they begin to recognize, always cause social fracture. After almost eight years of trial, after all his promises were proved false, after he had caused an undeniable social fracture, after he had endangered the coexistence knowing that they had done so and caused the flight of thousands of companies, it is time for the parties and organizations that caused this situation to land in reality. Because when we had budgets, in 2017, which is the one that is in force today because it is extended, we met with budgets that were not designed to address real problems; they were not designed to end waiting lists in health care nor were they designed to end schools in barracks; nor were they designed to undertake reforms that would avoid the duplication and triplicity existing in the Administration. They were budgets that were not meant to rationalize public spending. They are not budgets to get out of the crisis by promoting economic growth and employment; they are budgets simply with the aim of getting us out of Spain and the European Union, opaque budgets, with hidden items with the intention of paying with public money acts that do not respect legality, full of embassies, full of high offices, of supposed state structures that have proved to be useless, of propaganda expenses to encourage social rupture, to encourage a feeling of aggravation and confrontation between Catalans and between Catalans and the rest of Spanish. Look, we Catalans do not deserve to live in this situation, we do not deserve to live in a situation of institutional blockade, political instability, uncertainty, social rupture, but we deserve to recover something as basic as institutional normality. Because regaining institutional normality, the return of the parties to the legal and political spheres established in the constitutional and statutory framework, will also facilitate the reunion of Catalans and will benefit economic and social progress; Catalans who have been irresponsibly fed by nationalist epics and victimism. From here I ask you to return to institutional normality and to contribute to the only confrontation that we have ahead of us is that which confronts us with the raw reality, which confronts us with economic data, with employment statistics, with waiting lists, with school results, with technological and scientific research. We have enormous challenges ahead, while here, the greatest confrontation they are fed is not a confrontation of ideas, it is a confrontation of identities that leads us nowhere. And keep in mind that, while you continue to devote yourselves to this exhausting and exhausting process, the raw reality is that Catalonia is not moving forward and has to be rescued by the FLA, by the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, as the decree we are debating today reminds us. And all this so that they can continue to provide the public services proper to the state of well-being. Today we will act responsibly and support the validation of this decree, thinking, as always, of all Catalans and to avoid further harming our public coffers and not affecting workers and suppliers. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.23.0	Thank you, Mr. Cano. For the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Ms Teresa Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.24.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, trade union representatives, thanks for being with us today. Mirin, the validation of the law that today deals with us in this plenary, 1/2018, of March 9, on the financial needs of the public sector with budgetary prorogation, as was the previous decree that there is, decreed law that has invalidated, are already published to the BOE and the DOGC on March 13th. I don't think so, they're already published and they've already come into force. As has already been said before, Article 64.2 of the Statute of Autonomy indicates that these decrees must be expressly validated by Parliament after a debate and voting by all groups, which allows us to validate a rule with a status of government which, even if it is provisional, has already entered into force, ladies and gentlemen. And I say this, another time, to show that from Juntes to Catalonia has always strived to preserve the need for a presuppositional extension of the Generality and, of course, the one that affected, as my company, Mr. Marc Solsona, defended, the recovery of the extraordinary pay. We have not done any demagoguery, but we wanted to ask you to remove them from the order of the day of the last April 5th plenary in order to make manifest what clearly reverses the article of this Parliament, Article 158.2, which calls for the presentation by a member of the Government. And, as you have well heard, neither the Lord Montoro nor the Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría nor in Millo wanted to be present at these plenary sessions. Mirin, we don't even discuss its content, quite the contrary; but we understand that it is necessary to preserve the forms and respect for the Rules of this chamber, which you all too often accuse us of not doing. From Juntos per Catalunya we have shown that we work with the highest sense of responsibility and commitment to the country, gathering what the ballot boxes, in a democratic way, have commissioned, and more so with a very clear vocation of government. We have only mentioned that we have put forward proposals for three candidates for the investiture, and they have been vetoed, for the injustice and authoritarianism of those who have given support to 155 and now we have to talk about the state of law and freedom of expression. Allow me to express to you a certain sense of disenchantment before this scener. These are exciting moments, but, in a sense of doubt, they mark in a very clear form the pocket of a new Member, in this case a Member, who takes the word in this Faristol for the first time. Look, we can't normalize the democratic anomaly that we're patenting, but we must note the gravity of these moments that we're living through the situation of imprisonment and exile, I repeat, imprisonment and exile of our legitimate government and our president. I would have liked to be able to make this intervention by listening to the presentation of our legitimate government, even though it certainly would not have been a presuppositional prorogation, but we would have been in front of a good debate of presuppositions. This exposure, I'm sure, would have been on the rise of the government that already at that time developed responsible and coherent assumptions with our country's economic and political situation. Presumables that, like all the previous ones, were marked for tax-deficit entries and a forecast of investments in Catalonia in inferiority, like many years ago, to the contribution that is made by Catalonia to the state. This heaviness is maintained now in the proposal of assumptions that today begins to be exposed to the Congress of Deputies by Minister Montoro. We have a state that, later, and in agreement with the later proposal of assumptions, brings us 13.3_percent of the investment, but still lacks our contribution to GDP, which is 19.2_percent. Perhaps, Mr. Cano, we could solve some of these problems if, when we talk about debt, we can also, some day, manage to balance fiscal balances. I suppose we'll have time to talk about it. And these are the ones who are now presenting the assumptions – and the ones that support them – that, as a result of the election, are announcing measures to reduce the IRPF, which will imply for Catalonia a reduction in the recaptancy of this tax, which, as you know, is partial, of approximately 190, almost 200_million euros. So we have problems that we need to be able to solve. And once more from the state, the last one: the investment per capita in Catalonia is EUR 178,6_ while that of the conjunct of the rest of Spain is EUR 217,5_. Ladies and gentlemen, the numbers are very clear, that each wears them as you like or as you can. But we are missing the government that, despite all the interbanks, has gone forward and worked with assumptions... – despite the praises that Mr. Cano has made to his intervention, let me rectify it –, presuppositions prepared to design Catalonia of the future, presuppositions for social cohesion, presuppositions to promote enterprise and quality in the occupation of this country and presuppositions to guarantee quality public services. Presumables like those that deserve the citizens of Catalonia – citizens and citizens of Catalonia. And I will tell you quickly and with numbers: assumptions that increased social spending by more than €1,300_million, more than €500_million for education, more than 400 to strengthen the universal health system and we could follow. And, moreover, these assumptions were used in an economic recovery in Catalonia which, despite the constant pressure of the State, experienced an increase of 3.4_percent of GDP during the last quarter of 2017. And this time it was already over the state middle and the European Union, so that the economic sectors vagina posing serious data from the table and we are working on this line. All these measures, moreover, are accompanied by a serious assessment of public policies, efficiency and compromises in fiscal reporting, as well as a strategy on the effective issue of spending, and, of course, what we know how to do: a transparent framework, therefore, of the information on assumptions. Unfortunately, since July 2017 the financial control and intervention of public accounts by the Government of the State hinders the normal functioning of the Government, even more so the dissolution of the Government, the call for elections and, finally, 155, which affects us in a very clear way; this article 155, which has been lethal in its interpretation, with measures proposed for the Rajoy Government and endorsements for the majority of votes in the Senate. Unfortunately, we won't have to talk for many years. And all this brings us to the fact that today we are taking up this debate on the validation of the law of needy financing with presuppositional prorogation. But this is only a technical and regulatory measure, which presupposes the guarantee and continuity of the provision of public services in Catalonia – a situation of abnormality – but which must be dealt with by consistency and responsibility. From our group, therefore, we understand that we need to give it the support, the affirmative response, so that we can guarantee the increase of the government's living debt and public sector entities, that we can allow and pull forward the debt operations that are needed and, obviously, provide new debt operations, for the necessary amount, to cover the depreciations planned for 2018. Mirin, the government measures and the economic measures that were going to affect all people in our country equally – all of them. And all of us who are part of this chamber are responsible, so they decided the polls on 21st of December. We are working in an environment of political and institutional abnormality, we have said since the first day; abnormality that does not allow us to invest elected Members in this Parliament, democratically chosen; abnormality that poses through politics and judicially conditions our legitimate actions and decisions. But we have responsibilities before the people of Catalonia, and, from this responsibility, we act resolutely to build the country where we want to live Catalans and Catalans, whatever their political orientation And that's why I hope and desire that this presuppositional extension has a very short appeal. We'll keep working to get the government out of hand and be able to get in full, I'm not sure, into a serious debate of assumptions. No doubt it will be enriched by all the parliamentary groups. And I hope, in particular, that your contributions make these assumptions that the people of Catalonia deserve. Only from Catalonia do we know and understand more than any other government that has to be our economic and fiscal policy. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.25.0	Thank you, Mrs. Pallarès. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernat Sole has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.26.0	President, members of the Bureau, Members and Members, he will still be doing a year and three months, in this very Chamber, in a plenary session, as it could not be in any other way, exactly this happened. [[The orator places a photograph of the Faristol.]] The President of the Generality, Carles Puigdemont, and the Vice-President, Councillor of Economics, Oriol Junqueras, united and open their hands accompanied by all the members of the Government and of a Parliament with all their deputies and deputies present, occupying their escrow each, as it could not be otherwise. A box of hands that, despite all the intentions of some groups of this chamber to torpedo any agreement, allowed to give green light to the assumptions of the 2017 Generality. A box of hands representing the unit and the chord. A box of hands that represented the legitimacy of a democratically elected government to develop the electoral program with which the parliamentary groups that we supported had presented us in those 2015 elections. A box of hands that showed the ability to form majorities to work together for common goals. A box of hands that also meant acceptance of the discrepancy and respect for the diversity of opinions expressed by the different parliamentary groups, which was the first of any democratic institution. A box of hands that filled the general interest for partisan interest and put in the hands of the citizenry the most important tool to end all the policies needed to advance as a sincere country. And yes, I say, and I stress the concept of ‘sentimental country' because, despite some groups of this chamber, they struggle and insist on becoming heresies of a silent majority– certainly, today more noisy than silent–, those assumptions, those assumptions that we today extend, have been designed for everyone, to reach every citizen of this country, think what they think and vote what they want, as it could not be in any other way. In fact, Vice President Junqueras defined them as the most social assumptions of history; some assumptions that had enabled the combination of the increase in admissions to previous exercises, with an increase in resources destined for social policies especially, but also to health, education, economic promotion, territorial balance and environmental protection. And it did from the highest possible rigour, yes, certainly the rigour that supposed to have made possible that the Catalan economy had grown since the year 2015 thanks to an excellent management from the Department of Economy and the confidence of the country in a robust and efficient government; a management that, as you all know, has allowed the payment deadline to be reduced to providers and to the same sixty-seven-day meetings of the year 2015 to twenty-eight days in the current; a management that has allowed the risk population to be reduced, at the risk of the poor or social exclusion in the past years; a management that has allowed the current assumptions to contain important increments in the main structural policies, such as the 410_million euros added in the last 15 years. In total, an increase of 1,170_million euros is in line with the year 2015, which has made it possible for three_de_cada_four euros to be earmarked for social expenditure. And I remember, Mrs Romero, with all the affection I have, that you told us at that time that these assumptions came late and that it would be wise to make a presuppositional extension. That's what you said. He certainly wasn't wrong. Today we are precisely at the point you predicted. But you'll understand that we're very different from what you could imagine at that time. That moment this photograph was taken, and that today we can't reproduce. It is impossible for us, because many of the people who at that time are advisers and advisers, or deputies and deputies, today cannot accompany us to this chamber. And, although Ishagi named himself many times, I'll be back. And I'll come back to make it very tall and clear, because it's not just about counselors and deputies who exercised the democratic mandate that the country's citizens commissioned them; it's about people with names and surnames, families, friends and impeccable life and political paths. From here, from this Faristol, from this chamber representing the sovereignty of the people, carried the most warm support and call to President Carles Puigdemont; to Vice-President Oriol Junqueras; to the President of the Parliament Carme Forcadell; to Councillors Raül Romeva, Toni Comín, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull, Quim Forn and Lluís Puig; to the Councillors Dolors Bassa, Meritxell Serret and Clara Ponsatí, and to the President of the parliamentary group I represent, Marta Rovira ; to the Member of Parliament Anna Gabriel ; to the President of Ómnium Cultural, Jordi Cuixart, and to the President of the Catalan National Assembly and Member of this Parliament, Jordi Sànchez. And we won't get tired of doing it. We won't get tired of doing this, because if you have a lot of us here today, if you have my name right here, it's exactly for all your commitment to people, institutions and the country. And if today we find ourselves with the need to validate this presupposition law decree is precisely because this government in prison and exile has been carrying its phone book. In fact, to carry the fundamental rights of our political representatives is to carry them also to the people, and in this sense there is no democracy in the world that you allow the will of the majority of the people of a country, which has decided who wants the government, to be replaced by the authority of a government of the State represented in this hemisphere by four deputies, at these times by two. A government of the State that has been able to remove a sincere government chosen for our fellow citizens, put him in prison or force him into exile, and call for elections in which, once again, the sense of the majority of our country has been clearly demonstrated. We are very likely to have a good part of the parliamentary groups in this House to vote in favour of this decree, which will allow the budgetary extension. But don't be fooled, don't look for interpretations where there isn't. Certainly, some of us would vote the same, but for radically different reasons. Some of you will vote in favour of it because they are main actors or accomplices of the 155 application, and with their vote they will accept that it is the Government of the State that directs the policies of this country. And they will explain why they do so because without approval of this decree the majority of policies would be put to rest. And they'll say very loudly that they do it out of responsibility, because the country needs it, and because people ask them to do it. Don't make a mistake. People do not ask to be governed by a ministry unable to come and explain itself in this Parliament. The people don't ask that who should have defended the assumptions of the year 2018 is in prison. People ask justice. People demand that they respect the will expressed through the ballot boxes. To the people asked for freedom. And it is precisely for all these people, not for our people, but for the people who feel like us, all of us, for the people of this country, that we will not fail, and that we will continue to work to restore democratic normality as soon as possible. We will work because all the necessary policies to guarantee social justice and economic progress are coming together. We'll work because all the people in this country have the same opportunities. And we will work for those people who are going through it badly, and who can get out. Some groups today may choose not to finish giving support to this decree. It's legitimate. And, in fact, thank them for having been able to talk to us. But they also demand that they reflect on the foundations, that they wander beyond the political position of some assumptions and that they allow tomorrow and tomorrow and that the other country does not last, that the providers can continue to charge, that the dependent people can continue to receive help, that our schools, that our hospitals, that our more basic services can continue to work. They're asking for this exercise of responsibility. They ask them not to allow Article 155 to go through with it, because it's a lot of play. We play our present, but we also play our future. And people can't fail them. For all this, from the group that I represent, that group that we have always been at the expense of the social transformations of our country, that group that we have always understood the policy of the low, that group that works for a more free and fairer Catalonia, that group that today has its leaders in prison and exile but that has more strength and determination than ever... This group, this group will give support to this decree and will continue to work tirelessly to the service of this great country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.27.0	Thank you, Mr. Solé. Mr. Solé, I've been forced to call them to order and not take things to the Faristol. I'm telling you, because he did, but it's a general call anyway. It is now the return of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. It's the turn of Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.28.0	Thank you, President. Good morning again, MPs and MPs. He told us Mr. Pallares that today what we do is validate a law decree. Yes, a law decree that is provisional while not validated in this Parliament, and that if not approved today is a derogation. That is to say, it is in force, but if today we were not able to find this majority of votes affirmed, the end result repealing it. I don't think it's going to be that way, for the announcements they've made of affirmative votes. I also announce the Socialist Group's stated vote, despite what we have also done in other circumstances. But it is true that today's elections are different and exceptional for a lot of reasons, above all, and among others, because on 21 December there were elections, and it seems impossible, materially, that before the end of the year it is possible to present assumptions and approve them. And, therefore, we believe that the automatic extension that is the 1st generation... – "It's not that I agree, is it? , said the Lord Solé –, is that the 1 gene is automatically extend the assumptions. And what we're doing now is not validating this, what we're doing today is validating a law decree that allows debt to be paid for the generality's financial needs. And, therefore, here, in this type of decree that allows, because of financial needs, to indebt you, on some occasions the Socialist Group had voted against it. It's true. We believe that this time it does not touch, because, as I say, the elections were very few days before the year ended and, therefore, materially it was impossible to do another thing. Now, that doesn't mean that we either endorse or legitimize the 2017 premise, because we made a very hard and strong speech against those assumptions that you presented to us and approved. And I'll say one thing to Mr. Sole, who was talking about my intervention at that time: they approved it late and they had to go to the prorogation because you didn't agree, not the Junts for the Yes, which at that time formed a single group, but with the UPC, huh? There was a lot of discussion with the CUP. We were going to have three months of discussion with the members of the CUP. In fact, in different committees of economy there were very different votes, the CUP voted with opposition, they approved opinions of the Socialist Group, of other groups... I mean, the truth is, it was three months of a certain sound. The problem was not the opposition, the problem was that the Parliamentary Group Together for the Yes did not know how to find the complicity of the CUP. For another band, normal, because those assumptions were neither the most social of history nor surely those that society needs, needed 2017 and needs today. And so, in this sense, I think you should do a little consciousness analysis for that. We – I have already said – with this ‘if we do not accept those assumptions. You've said a few things that worry me a little. Basically, because they say, Mrs. Pallarès said: "They were responsible and coherent assumptions. I suppose so, that with a certain ideology of Drets because, if not, they don't get along. You were defending a model of society, with those assumptions... because in the end the assumptions mark the priorities of the government and show the model of society you want for the country you govern, and we cannot share it. In fact, we are fighting against this model of society that at that time Juntes per el Si laid on the table. It impinges on the public sector in a very clear way. We have not been able to reverse some of the details, neither in the educational sphere, nor in the area of sanitation, nor after in the areas of pure and harsh management of public administration, have we? – We've already talked about workers' rights, for example. I'll put some data on them, because I think it's also important to remember. And as more as you have entered this 2017 debate, I think it's also worth putting the other side of these assumptions. Look, some interesting things: guaranteed citizenship, of the seventy thousand requests we have, we couldn't pay a thousand. We are the autonomous community of Spain with the highest hope lists for dependence. In those social assumptions that you say, zero_euros for schools in Bressol. 2012 was a 66_per_cent boost to university taxes. At that time, the reversal of Convergence and Republican Unity and Left to the universities was reduced by 300_million. It's gone from 1,000_million in 2010 to 700, a little bit more, than we are now. Home, at a time when it would be a good thing to strengthen the economy as well as basic knowledge, so that it could be more innovative and have a more cutting-edge economy based precisely on innovation and added value and not on lower costs, man, it would be interesting if you had made a bet for universities and knowledge, and you didn't. They will already explain to me where these assumptions are so left-handed and so progressive and so responsible and so coherent. But it's not just about that. In education we follow the lines of P3, and in account of reducing the rates to give better quality, you do not do so, despite the fact that there have been resolutions approved for this Parliament. And, well, now I'll tell you something a little nice: you don't have a say this year, huh? Now that spring is up, you don't have allergy, because if you have allergy today and you have to test yourself, the half a day of hope is 210 in Catalonia; at the Bellvitge Hospital, 546. I mean, if you have allergy today, the year you see it, right? Maybe they could do the tests and... You can't tell us that they have put a lot of resources into sanitation and education, because the reality of the citizens of Catalonia is that they have very large waiting lists, that there is no way to have an hour for the dermatologist or the allergologist with reasonable dates. The common sense would tell us something else. So I think we should be a little careful. You were talking, especially Mrs. Pallarès, about finance and taxation. Home, what's the matter with me? He says, and it's true: "Tax deficit. And as much as you want, we agree with that, we have always said, but why did you, Mr Puigdemont, not go to the Tax and Finance Policy Council, or Mr Junqueras, to negotiate a new financing system? It's just that since 2014 we should have entered a new funding system, and we didn't want to negotiate. We didn't want to negotiate, among other things... I've been through, haven't I? Me too, the previous speeches. Of course, 2014 has already been said to us: "Clearly, as you are about disconnection, you do not want to negotiate. But it's, look, this is 2018, and they haven't disconnected. Listen, please, while you don't make your way – which I don't share, which my group doesn't share – could you do the work to improve the living conditions of Catalans? Could you negotiate a better financing system? Because that means more resources for Catalans, for education, for sanitation, for investments... Please do your job. The new government has to do the work that surrounds it, and in a state like today we are here, with a Catalonia in the Spanish State, with a Catalonia that needs resources from the State, among other things because they are resources that come from taxes paid by Catalans or Catalan companies..., please, negotiate better. Don't leave the cadira empty. Listen to me, so when you talk to me about this, I have to say that if there were no more resources for this way, it's because they didn't negotiate it. It is true that there were no more resources because you did not want to change the taxes for which we have the capacity of the Parliament of Catalonia. We have already asked them: "Listen, change the estate tax, the estate tax. They didn't. We could have got more tickets. You couldn't stretch out all the self-government you had for the best of Catalan tickets. And, therefore, it was, for us, and it is, that of 2017, a totally deficient assumption, weak on the part of the tickets, that we did not have what we could have achieved, or, if we had negotiated better with the State – or we had negotiated, simply – and, two, if we had done a more progressive tax reform, with which I believe that some of the Members who are sitting on this side might agree. But, of course, I suppose his commitments are more important, aren't they? But it would be interesting if we could change that in our own time. Miri, the favourable vote that we will take on the validation of this decree does not legitimize, as I say, the assumptions of 2017; it allows the Generality at these times, so, can act, can be indebted to pay suppliers, to pay third-sector entities, to face their debt obligations, but, as I say, what would please us, more, also, is to be able to debate a presumption of 2018. I don't know what you have in mind; first, I hope, to invest a president and form a government. And then it would be nice if you wanted to discuss some assumptions here, and we could discuss some assumptions of 2018, in which we can modify so many things that we don't like those assumptions that you presented to us. That's why we really need a strong government, a stable government, a solid government, and I hope we can get it. There have been offers in this chamber so that we can get this, so that we can come up with assumptions that do not come from some Members who end up conditioning governments. And I am saying this, at this point, for the four Members of the CUP, who carry a lot of time conditioning many of the things going on in this country. There are other majorities, there are other supports that can be achieved; obviously, with other priorities: more tickets, a tax reform; obviously, return to the level of reversal that there was the year 2010 in education, sanitation or dependency; activate the economy from the clear bet for knowledge. And, therefore, in this sense, if you were to join in a line similar to this one, then you could find at least those who sat down to a table and were not in this case, therefore, the companies of the UPC, which so many problems have brought us, not to approve assumptions when it touches and probably not to make the assumptions that this country needs. Prioritzin, invest a president, conform a government, and present what we all want here: the assumptions of 2018, which should mark the priorities of the new government. This is what we would like to discuss today and not this decree of law, which does not stop being out of the way; do not say technical, as Vice President Junqueras said, because obviously there is a strong political behind here, but it is true that what we want today is to discuss some assumptions with all of you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.29.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. This is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.30.0	President... deputies, deputies, good morning to all of you. Well, today I think we're living a new day of the Catalan politics marmot, let me just stare at it, a little new loop in the process. Today, we now have the debate and vote on the Public Sector Financial Needs Decree for budgetary prorogation. It is a debate that we should have made on April 5th, but that in this case too, signed for Mrs Sáenz de Santamaría, and under the promise, I understand, that together for Catalonia to Esquerra, that we would have ruled before Sant Jordi and that, therefore, these decrees could be signed by the new Government of the Generality. This debate, as it has been said so far, is a tradition; that is, it is the eighth year that the generality's assumptions are extended. It is true that we are in a totally exceptional situation, with elections called for Rajoy, councillors ceased and unjustly in pre-trial detention, voting on 21 December. Therefore, we, our group, are fully aware that it was impossible to approve these assumptions before the 1st generation of 2018. It is also true that the former Government had an obligation to present the assumptions of the Generality, or at least the draft assumptions of the Generality, before October 10. But at that time the Junts for Catalonia government had other priorities – the Junts for Catalonia government, Junts for Yes at that time, and the Republican Left – which were not the Law of Presuppositions, even though it is one of the most important laws a government makes. I hope – he also said to other Members and Members here – that we can work on the assumptions of this year. I'm afraid they won't be the assumptions of 2018 at the pace they're going to be, but they will be the assumptions of 2019, but I'm sure we can start this debate. Some will say that they are autonomous assumptions; you will say that they are assumptions to make the republic; we will say that they are assumptions to recover self-government, to exaggerate self-government and to respond to social needs. In any case, assumptions, at the head and at the end. We have already told them that we will make proposals for, for example, returning resources to the joint meetings to finance the Bressol schools that they have eliminated; or, for example, to allocate the same resources to housing policies that they have allocated to them, for example, the Barcelona Joint; or to increase the resources that they are intended to finance public transport in order to fight effectively against climate change and to guarantee the right of mobility. As I said, this debate is taking place in a context of exceptionality and with an unfair situation of advisers and advisers, but also with the bulk of government secretaries and secretaries and directors and directors-general exercising their functions. This is a decree driven by Pere Aragonès, Secretary of Economy, that on the 22nd of February the transmission to the Secretary of the Government, Victor Cullell, because on the 23rd of February the transfer to the Lady Saénz of Santamaría and the Council of Ministers and is confirmed on the 9th of March. Therefore, we find ourselves under a decree built under the umbrella and the architecture of Article 155 and that it also completes the hundred_per_cent with the Law of Presuppositionary Stability of Mr Montoro. I suppose that's why they needed to give the night from April 4th to 5th, and that's why the currents withdrew the decree from the order of the day of the plenary. Sense of doubt is a misconception – I already understand it – but it is a misconception that we may have been relieved, as at the very least at the formal level, if, all the obvious difficulties, we have a chosen government, which is the one that has to sign this decree. Jo, on the 5th, I meant that for us this was a contradiction, that you decided whether it was small or big. I suppose they decided that it was big and that's why they decided to remove the points of the plenary from the order of the day. Why do I ask them: can I debate and vote the decree Aragonès - Saénz de Santamaría and also insist on investments that, as a minimum, require the disobedience of the Bureau of this Parliament? Can we accept the functioning of the 155 in this Parliament in the morning and at the same time in the afternoon to want to rule the Generality at a distance? I think it's a little complicated. But in any case, this decree demonstrates two things. The first: the urgency of forming government, which is the greatest good to recover, our self-government; perhaps it is little for some, but for us it is more than we have so far. And secondly, that there is a general government sub-governance, that is to say, secretaries and secretaries of government and directors and directors-general who make decisions that affect people's day-to-day lives without Members of this House exercising their real and effective parliamentary control. Exactly, I'm telling you, the one that Mrs. Sáenz of Santamaría does too. The exceptional and unfair situations created by 155, which we reject and condemn, as well as the right-wing detail, are evident. But it's not just the fault of 155 that we don't have a government. Since it is not just a 155-year-old thing that, for example, is a tanquino cycle formatius in Montcada or that guaranteed income only covers a thousand people in Catalonia, or it is not just a 155-year-old thing that, people without a home, has decided not to charge it, guaranteed income of citizenship. As I said, we are fully aware of the difficulties and situations of injustice. But I ask them again: can they be pragmatic and responsible to pay the generality's debts, to pay banks and creditors, like Mr Montoro's FLA, and can't they be to form governments and leave 155 of a time? On April 4, when they asked us what we would vote on the decree, they said: "Look, we can't do anything but vote for the decrees. And I said to them, "Home, maybe not or maybe not; we could have ruled, and we could have saved all this. I said a week ago – and I think I have quoted it textually – Mr. Eduard Pujol said: "We have won the right to manage time. In my humble opinion, in our humble opinion, I say no; they have won the right to form government with the majority independence that we recognize exists, the right to recover our self-government, to make 155 go back and above all to govern for all the people that the clock has been running for a long time. And today what we have already said would happen: Citizens and Junts for Catalonia, in the first vote in economics, vote the same, at the first change; after full symbolics and to throw the dishes for the head, another time, when the economic interests arrive, together, vote the same. I don't think that's a surprise, but in any case, they vote the same. In the Congress, yesterday, for example, in a housing emergency such as we have in Catalonia, many people who cannot pay the logger, together– Ciutadans, PP and PDECAT – vote in favour of the endurition of express denunciation. And another time, together, to defend in this case the economic interests, in the vote of the Law of Biodiversity, again coincide Ciutadans, Junts for Catalonia and the Popular Party. I therefore believe that one of the things that also makes these votes clear is that in economic matters you always go, vote and continue to work together. Finally, as I said, we were not going to give support to the assumptions of the year 2017; assumptions approved with the votes of Junts for the Yes, the CUP and the Republican Left. We understood, despite the defense that has been made now, that we do not share, that they were very far from being truly social assumptions, very far from recovering the details in relation to the year 2010. Therefore, we do not ask ourselves that with this vote we endorse the assumptions of the year 2017 with this decree. That is why, together with the fact that we are in front of a decree under the drawing of 155, we cannot support this decree and will therefore abstain. We won't stick to the wheels. We are aware that the Generalitat has to face its financial commitments, especially with social entities and its suppliers, but it is not us who resolves its contradictions, nor the contradictions at the economic and social level complemented by the Law of Presuppositional Stability of Mr Montoro, nor the contradictions at the national level confirming a decree of the Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría in this Parliament. In politics, each school managed its own contradictions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.31.0	Thank you, Mr. Cid. It is now the return for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, for Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.32.0	Today, April 25, we want to remind the Valencia Country, as always, that the south is our north. And we also want to remember some north, and some north is what we're discussing today, and above all we say it out of respect for who you see through all the communication media. We are not discussing the prorogation of assumptions, which are already extended; we are discussing another very different thing, which is to cover presumably new needs. That, of course, we argue that we will vote against it, but obviously the CUP is absolutely in favour or could be in favour of covering supposedly new needs; we are not, of course, against public debt, but we want to make it very clear that, in the centrality of which today is surely to be validated, what we have are norms of fiscal stability of the Kingdom of Spain, for a band, as well as the funds or the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, which we call "FLA". And that is, basically, the rule that will be validated today. Let us make it very clear: public debt can be a necessary element of financing to develop public services of higher quality. And we, therefore, would not be against it. Today too, and it is the centrality for which we will vote against it, the ill-named public debt, with the presuppositionary stability standards of Mr Montoro and with what the FLA means, is no reversal, it is an absolute mortgage for the future of our people. We make it very clear that if we talk about financing needs, we need to talk about the debt and what the debt means. This morning, in addition to other interventions: in 2007, a public debt, or ill-named a public debt, of the Government of Catalonia of 15,000_million, and, to date, 77,000. Please look at the meaning of these data. But we also say that the acceptance of the FLA means that there is an economic intervention of the Government of Catalonia by the absolute State. Yes, we do or do see that what the FLA means is basically going to rescue those debtors who had respected the Catalonian Government and going to whitewash accounts; debts that could be accompanied by an analysis – we talk and we have talked many times about audience – to see if they were illegitimate or illegal. And we move in a very clear way: is it possible to get out of the FLA? Is it possible to inapply the FLA? ; Is it possible to fail the FLA? We say yes, but at times in a very sincere way, we also establish that this means that we must have an alternate plan, the principal cannot be Greece, we must have an alternate plan that goes to build a republic. And to build republic, too, and it is essentially tax sovereignty, that Catalans and Catalans decide on our taxes, on the totality of taxes, on their forms and their characteristics; public banking itself, but also on capital control, monetary policy and the essential: to be able to negotiate from you to the European Central Bank. As the other alternative is Roman under the FLA, what that means is that we can't guarantee quality public services – it's reality – for our own generations if we keep the FLA. And another reality, the lack of political sovereignty of this Parliament. The FLA also means that. Therefore, as an alternative, let us make it very clear: let us not go to subterre'ns to the dictatorships of the Ministry of Economy of the Kingdom of Spain, but go to build republic, to build structures to place ourselves in a position of strength and of real possibility of compensating for the bad name of public debt. And we make a call to the independenceists of this chamber, who are very clear to us all and all the independenceists: we will not build a republic if we do not have real sovereignty and have no social policies for the popular classes. And we are also addressing the progressives of this chamber: it is not possible to realize social policies if we keep ourselves in the dictatorships of what, for a band, means the apparatus of the Spanish State and of what, in all its expressions, means the European Union and the politics of the troika. We want to make a small reference to the PSOE, or to the reference of the PSOE plus the former Union in this Parliament : we have not understood the obsession they have with the CUP ; yes, we would like to hear about which social policies the CUP has raised against you and why yesterday, together with Citizens, with the PP and with the GNP, facilitated the adoption, obviously, of a regulation [[remorse of the voice]] which will lead us to express denunciation. And why have you applied for thirty years? [[the remorse of the voice persists]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.33.0	Please, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.34.0	... labor counter-reforms and fiscal policies against the interests of the popular classes. They answer about that. I, for the last time, diem [[the remorse of the voice persists]] in a very clear way...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.35.0	Quiet, and please. One moment, Mr. Aragonese...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.36.0	I see that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.37.0	You're gonna have to respect what you've got.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.38.0	... respect these Members and these Members, they say in a very clear way: obviously we do not want one more day of the application of 155; better today than tomorrow, that is to say 155. But let's say more...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.39.0	Time's up, Mr. Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.40.0	... to return to the reality that means – and I ended up, Mr President – the FLA is not to have a minimal expression of sovereignty. [[Greetings. Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.41.0	Please, MPs, MPs... It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia; Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.42.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen..., Mr Solé, I assume that the President of Parliament has listened attentively to me, who gave me the word representing the People's Party of Catalonia, which is to whom I represent in this chamber. I do not represent any government, I represent all the citizens of Catalonia who voted for our political formation; certainly, with the same dignity and legitimacy, as at least, that any other Member of this House. That said, if I may, I believe that there are three words that allow us to define perfectly what the law decree that today is subject to consideration of this chamber represents. These three words are a classic, they are a transit, but they are also an exception, and therefore there is a certain amount of exception. A classic. It has been said repeatedly since 2011, a year ago, this is a decree which, with subtleties, modifications, but it has had to be approved a year ago, for different circumstances, this decree to cover the financial needs. It is not a presuppositional decree, as has been said repeatedly by some Members. It's a decree that allows you to borrow so you can face debt depreciation operations. It's an actual decree, as I said, of transit. It was accompanied by the presuppositional prorogation, which is automatic once the 1st generation did not have the possibility that the corresponding exercise presupposition came into force. But it's also an exceptional law, in this case. And that, of course, also marks the position of our parliamentary group. Most... in all the situations where there was a presuppositional prorogation and, therefore, approval of this decree to cover the financial needs, either there was a government that was negotiating some presuppositions, or there were some presuppositions in dealings, or there was a negotiation that was evolving better or evolving worse. Exceptionality sees that we are at a time when, in order not to be there, there is no government. And, obviously, this is an exceptionality, and that is why it will also mark what our position is with regard to this decree. The objective, as I said, is not the extension, is to authorize debt transactions to deal with debt write-offs. And under normal conditions, we would say that there would be a majority in Parliament, under normal conditions, we would say that there is a government, or that there are assumptions in the process, or that there are assumptions in the negotiations, or that there is an explicit willingness of the government – which has also passed – not to approve assumptions. Why say: "Well, to approve autonomous assumptions, no; we will approve the assumptions of a new country. And, in fact, someone who, by the way, endorses this decree repeatedly at the length of the years has announced that there were the last autonomic assumptions to be discussed in this chamber; and it seems to me that the last autonomic assumptions will last a few years longer in the debate. Today there are no presuppositions in the process, no government, no parliamentary majority. And, therefore, this is the situation that conditions our position in favor of the validation of the decree. I think it's worth pointing out: it's not our satisfaction that the funding of the Catalonian Government since the year 2012 has been conditioned to the Autonomous Liquidity Fund. But it is that the dynamics of the governments that existed in the Generality of Catalonia during the previous years led to the only possibility of financing the public services of the Generality of Catalonia, to resort to the Autonomous Liquidity Fund; that it must be very painful– it must be very painful– but it has been the only way of financing that the public services of Catalonia have had. I, go, a little detail: they have only been interested in the Generalitat de Catalunya and, therefore, at the conjunction of Catalans some 9,000_million euros, from the year 2012 until now. If someone is able to find financing in the market at 0.834_per_cent, which is the financing medium price of the FLA, escort, we would be happy to support it. I'm done. I ended up telling them and reminding them that, as much as you may have said all morning long, 155 is not the problem; the problem is you. And the problem is you before, because it was the ones that caused the exceptional situation that forced the application of 155. And they're the problem now, because they have the ability to form governments and so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.43.0	Mr. Rodriguez, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.44.0	... – I have just now, Mr President – they have the capacity to form governments, and it is you who are keeping the blockade of this Parliament. Therefore, the 155 that it has caused is a certain normality between exceptionality; certainly, the normality to which the deputy of Juntes called for Catalonia saying that this is a law of normality. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.45.0	Yes, Mrs Romero, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.46.0	For contradictions. You gave it to me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.47.0	You gave it to me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.48.0	To tell Mr Vidal Aragonese that yesterday this law approved at the Congress of Deputies was on the proposal of the PDECAT; it was voted favorably by the People's Party, Ciutadans and GNP, and against the Socialist Party. If you have a bad conscience for having approved a set of draft assumptions no more than once in this Parliament, do not carry it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.49.0	That's more than a second, huh? Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.50.0	...against us and, in any case, resolve this in the proper votes. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.51.0	Mr. Aragonese, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.52.0	Obviously for allusions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.53.0	Gods, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.54.0	Obviously, yesterday the Socialist Party voted against it. It clearly precedes that before, in the process that passed by committee, there was a political demonstration of the Socialist Party that was in favour of this process. And he'll be with you. [[Funnel veils]] – let's talk a little bit – about drawings of motions in different joints, among others that of my city...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.55.0	Mr. Aragonese...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.56.0	... where you have voted in favour of this, as many other times, over forty years of anti-social policies. They won't let us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.57.0	Mr. Aragonese, he's finished his turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.58.0	...on social policies, the lords and lords of the PSOE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.59.0	We're cryin' for... [[Teresa Pallarès Piqué asked to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Pallarès?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.60.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.61.0	Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.62.0	Just... – thank you, President –, just a point for Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.63.0	Why, why ask me the word, Mrs. Pallarès?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.64.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.65.0	Say it. You gave it to me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.66.0	Just, Mr. Rodriguez, the normality and the abnormality that you're talking about... the normality that we're asking for is exactly what you still deny us. Thank you. [[José Maria Cano Navarro asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.67.0	Yes, Mr. Cano?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.68.0	Thank you, Mr. President. For allusions as well. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, for the allusions of Mrs. Pallarès. Well, I'll tell him that I don't believe in the letter account; that's to say... And, besides, when he's talking about tax balances, he hasn't done the numbers right and there's not enough to go into his arguments. On the other hand, I also read Mr. Torrent's intervention, which spoke of the 1,000_million, in principle, and later, of 1,300_million data..., in social issues. I'm telling him that this is totally fake if you look at the numbers, that they're easy to look at, because they're more like a full click. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-04-25-0601.69.0	Well, we're going to vote now. I remind you, as we have done with the previous decree, that the votes stated are in favour of the validation of the decree and that the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. Let's start the vote. [[Pause.]] This decree was adopted by 122 votes to four, with eight abstentions. Is there any group that you wish is passed on to you, this decree? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Therefore, it is validated. There is no more point in the order of the day; therefore, let us raise the session. Thank you very much.
