ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.1.0	Good morning, we're still on the order of the day. [[Motion for a resolution on the defence of civil and political rights]] [[250-00146/12]] The eighth point is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the defence of civil and political rights. This motion for a resolution is presented for the Parliamentary Group Republicà. Therefore, to present this initiative, in the first place has the word Mrs. Anna Caula, for a maximum time of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to you all, especially as I'm here on time today at nine o'clock in the morning. As we want to be, since the Group of the Republic, to denounce the difficult events that are going on every day in our country. It is already known for all the political persecution suffered by the members of the legitimate government and different deputies of this chamber and others who have had to give up their minutes. And we add to it the daily persecution, the criminalization and the assemblage they suffer, day and day too, many citizens of Catalonia. The permanent violation of the most elementary civil and political rights suffered by citizens, our institutions and their representatives are constant. To our father, out of all reason to be in a democratic state. That is why, first of all, we want to send all our solidarity and outreach to the people of the People's Atheneu de Sarria, to mechanics, to pallassos, to comics, to designers, to teachers, to journalists, to singers, to printers, and to so many other anonymous citizens who, in the first person, day by day, have this brutal repression. Citizens who, in their dignity, their pacifism and their courage, resist the embezzlement of a petty and kingly state, without any soul, aggression as a wound and who do not doubt to use strategies such as violence, distortion, manipulation and lying, with the aim of creating by, hate and criminalizing any display of political dissent. Our society, encapsulated by our institutions, has a very clear objective: urgently to recover our institutions, which, power, was attached to them for the mandate of the 21st of December and, also, I think with the record of the 1st of October. And what is, in force, Joan Fuster's quote: "All politics that we do not do will be done against us. And what better, as an example, than different exhibits, mainly addressed to the block of my right, named unionist and the block of 155, because the rest of the hemisphere would be very familiar to them, because we were there. Because many who now build false accounts will not be able to store the truth, because we were there; the 1st of October we were there, little or many hours before. And let them express them with words that are lost: a great manifestation of civic, human values, and that define the best of ourselves. I was in Sant Julià de Ramis. They can recover the images of the armed force from the silence: clips of shield to which we were to the cantonada, without a word; clips of fuck to which they were to the middle of the square of the pavilion, without a word. Word is, just fucking shots to the people who were on the line hoping to do an act as democratic as voting. It was indifferent, so much so, some had decided that it was not the day of words, that it was not the day of democracy. It was one day of the authoritarian state, showing its worst face. From those moments, crits, to pull the infants out of a row where they are already handed over. Crits, seeing something your brain couldn't hear. Crits of company and friends flushed over the ground with their heads bouncing like a pilot. Critics of rage and impotence, of blows to the head, without any sense, before a peaceful and non-violent resistance. In summary, gratuitous rape; yes, rape, but only on the one hand, before the non-violent self-defence of the citizenry. And here is perhaps one of the essential aspects of all the pleas, the solid and compromised response of our citizens, the courage despite aggression and physical peril, no one is moving, and the people, who during the day went summarily to defend democracy. Yes voters and no voters, different parties and formations, we helped each other. Solidarity and companionship flourished, because we had and clearly had an objective: democracy. That was what was at stake, this very important thing: democracy. The living that day as the collection was brutal and very enriching humanly. It's hard for me not to share it. And also, we have discovered that these very adversities have struck the worst face of the State and who accompanies them: blackness, rancour, destruction..., it is not created, it is uncreated. And there are many examples, such as that of a Ciutadan candidate hiring claimed cartels accompanied by an individual who took the tattooed emblem of a dangerous neo-Nazi band illegalized in 2009. And the debt, another example, another Ciutadans candidate makes Girona clean as well. Is that how you promote coexistence? Ciutadans deputies, I invite you to find constructive and creative formulas, exist, to defend your ideas. It's more enriching to build than to destroy. And we could go on with more cases: a little while ago we got a tweet of your maximum representative, Mr. Rivera, which might well be hate-inciting, irresponsible incendiary, publishing photographs of the masters, of the new Palau. The perverted use of measures, originally designed to protect minorities, are some of the tools that are converted, at the hands of power, into instruments to suppress dissent and retaliate the space of civil society. Hate doesn't give any good fruit, no no. We preserve the Catalan school, take care of it, spoil it. Throwing away the fractures won't give you any lasting fruit. Maybe votes, short-term, but it'll hurt us all. We, as always, will denounce the repression and claim our retaliated people. We, as always, when we're not, and only we are, and we protect the victims and not the aggressors. We, as always, will not shut up before anyone who wants us dumb, blind and deaf; vegetatious. We, as always, are at the side of the 8-M demonstrations and denounce the sexism of justice and want a feminist republic. It is not just a question of independence, but what is in danger is freedom, democracy, in short, the foundations of the society we know. We, as always, do not want to play dehumanizing, we want to pose cares and stories behind each fact, we want justice and no misinterpretations. In this later year, we have clearly seen that it counts only the indissoluble unity of the country, and how, for this reason, all the fundamental rights leap through the air. As a weighting exercise, "the unity of the country is more important for the government and the judiciary than human rights and fundamental rights. The list of rights would be long, very long. We can't allow it, we can't allow it. As Vincent Andres Estellés wrote: "Resist, we resist, because one day we won't be able to do it anymore and then we'll be able to do it all. By the way, yesterday, as a leader of a political party, of the same thing that he looted and stole for decades in Valencia, he again insulted Guillem Aguló's memory. In this case, however, there was no respect for the victims. There are no civilian guards who quote and attribute hate crimes to wrong and right, there is no diligent Spanish prosecution. We could take it with a sense of humor, as Europe does, we could laugh, too, at this report that has created a new literary style of imaginary realism and that grinds it down when it is translated into other languages. But it is not to laugh at a totally politicized justice, without any kind of independence and dictatorship of a state that criminalizes masters or the people who rescue people in the Mediterranean and, in change, defends and conceals torturers and rapists. Because the problem is not, as we want to have some Spanish minister, a judge, not just a criminal code, but a failed judicial system, a hero of Francoism and only concerned for the defense of patriarchy and the economic elites of the regime. Lately, we have to be accused of talking about the people of Catalonia in representation of everyone. So yes, I want it to be for everyone, this claim, that when we talk about civil and political rights, it's a hundred per cent of high quality and for everyone. For those who vote for some and for those who vote for others. And I'll keep talking about the Catalan people and their people and not, we won't let them scratch us and bring our grudges into our minds. We want a healthy, just, fair, serene and respectful society, and that's why we'll work. They won't change our way of being, they won't change our eyes, we won't allow them to transform us. Perhaps the smile will be sad, but the look will always be honest and eagerly transformative and build with our society, that of all, this is the country I long for. We recognize it, we are not a bile, conqueror, oppressor; we are a land of accumulating, of opening...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.3.0	Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.4.0	... – I ended up, president – by merchants, intellectuals and artists. We are the ones who offer the Civil Guard, the ones of peaceful resistance, the ones of the Catalan Way, the ones of the Eleventh of September, the ones of the '1st of October. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen, people are our strength. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.5.0	Thank you, Mrs. Caula. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word in first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Elisenda Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.6.0	Good morning, everybody. Well, first of all, a thank you for the points that might have been added to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Republican Left. In our case, we thought we were helping to enrich a little more the text with emphasis on getting institutions back, to get them to rule as soon as possible. As I'll mention later, so I don't want to go into this now. Also another point that spoke of the initiatives that take place in this Parliament, whenever they wander, obviously, in favor of dialogue and coexistence and social cohesion, which has also been accepted by the Republican Left. Therefore, we are already saying that our vote will be in favour. Obviously, in this motion for a resolution it is said that the episodes experienced in Catalonia in the last few months lead us to conclude that we are in an obvious regression of freedoms, fundamental freedoms for our country and for this reason, at this time, I would also like to refer to the fact that the former members of the Bureau went to declare to the Supreme Court and in this statement there will be deputies who are here, sure, as Mr Guinó is, but also our esteemed companion Nuet, basically declare, for having brought to an end in this hemicicle debates that are now in the street, at bar bars. And it seems to me that policies and policies, we basically have this responsibility, that it is to translate the debates that are on the street in institutions. Therefore, a strong embrace, also the Tuesday that... the President of the Bureau, Mrs. Forcadell, will also go to declare. As we say, we are in an obvious regression of freedom. They began with article 155, they continued to ban songs, censor tweets, suspend exposures, raise accusations of terrorism that do not stand up, even prohibiting colors – banning colors –, attacking trade union freedom and now also appointing masters. I don't know if this is the cohabitation that People's Party and Citizens come to offer us, I don't know if all this is done to improve cohabitation. I don't think so, and I think we're a lot of people who think we don't, that this is the fierce competition they have between you to see who's more reactionary, to see who's hitting harder, to see who's getting rid of Catalonia as well. And everyone knows why the People's Party acts like this. We all know that Mr. Rajoy's government prefers to continue using Catalonia as an electoral ram to compete against Ciutadans, before it resolves democratic conflicts that are political. So much so that if one day we take a question about Citizens over the People's Party, one can already be very clear that the People's Party that day will come out to say it big or to react securely against rights and freedoms. In short, it is you– you– that is an authentic danger to democracy. But before that, fortunately, our country has a social majority that wants to move forward, a social majority for a new Catalonia. And these yearnings for change must be represented by a new one; a new plural and diverse one that is able to redden large social and political majorities; a new one that reflected a new social majority, in favour of a change in Catalonia. I do not know how, if it is not so, with large social and political majorities, it is possible to face the authoritarian offensive perpetrated by the People's Party Government itself. And before these attacks and the return of rights and fundamental freedoms, the people of our country have also returned in the best possible way. My group asked a few weeks ago, in this very House, for the need for a broad anti-repression front, to build broad plurals, from all the associated colors, from all the reasons, to defend the rights and freedoms of all. And a few days later, he created the Space of Democracy and Coexistence, which gave place to a mobilization on April 15. But he wasn't the only agent, he wasn't the only space that mobilised in Catalonia; they also had us united, united, women's mobilizations. They did it on March 8th, and they did it, sadly, to cry out loud the shame that means a feeling like that of La Manada. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens, they rape us and kill us. Remember this when they say they want to defend the people, but, in change, they refuse to go out on the street with excuses of bad payer. Remember that they rape us and kill us when they turn a state pact against male violence into a mulled paper. Because an unpresumptive deal is dumb paper. Or when La Manada's sentence was brought to the European Parliament... you weren't there either, because you left that debate. [[Greetings.]] That's what you are. [[Widow's remorse.]] I know it's a lot to prepare speeches...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.7.0	Please... please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.8.0	...but I've never seen them suffer as long as they ask if they're feminists or go on a feminist trip. And if they don't prepare, because they usually prepare a lot, it's probably not that they've given it enough importance to this subject. So, it's a pending assignment. I commend them for doing their dues. But they also do their dues for those who were in these governments of the Generality and who were responsible for brutal details against the assumptions of equality in Catalonia. Therefore, this is a priority of all political parties, think what they think, defend what they defend. Because a new country will also be the one where the women return to the house of night without for. And this should be the priority of all parliamentarians and all parliamentarians in this chamber as well. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And of the feminist mobilizations to the Pensioner Sea. I'll give you a little education. I know you haven't been to school, I have. I've seen high school more civilized than your bench. [[Widow's remorse.]] Because we've also been joined by the pensioners' mobilizations. Also, another cross-cutting demand in defense of their rights, which are those who have conquered with their sweat at the length of years of work. And this – this – is the way of the great majorities that can build Catalonia, the way that seeks the common points, the shared struggles to recover the country that we want, the one that responds faithfully to the fact that Catalonia, even though it has tortured itself a lot, is a people's sun. And that goes for everyone, because I don't think there are first-class Catalans or second-class Catalans. And as often happens, people in front of the political class. And our country carries six months without government. Without a government that can give answers, precisely, to these requests that are cross-cutting: that of the Space of Democracy and Coexistence, that of feminist mobilization, that of the Great Pensioner... And let's just call it a solution. And that's what we need to do in this Parliament: take note of what the people are asking for and demand. That is why it is time for all of us here to make a commitment to be proactive in putting solutions to the current blockade, so that Catalonia can move forward in a new era. And that's why the time of cunning has to end. We wear half a year without government, and at this time concerts of Opus Dei schools have been approved, almost a box in castle in the pre-registration of the Catalan school, general directions have been suppressed, legislative initiatives have fallen. Too many master pseudogames and too many symbolic games! It's about having a country that's up for scrapping! Too much to block Catalonia and slow down the progress of everyone and everyone to want to repeat the erratic strategies of the past! It's time to look forward, it's time to build a better future because they owe it to the people. And listening to those who these days – and I quote textually – have said: "We won nothing without government; and, in turn, we risk a lot to return to the same situation in the best of cases. I suppose they're familiar with this date. Because it's time to make a jump with nine political majorities of progress, to overcome past mistakes and face present and future challenges. The government must allow us to recover our institutions, but also to stop losing..., to stop losing and start winning a new Catalonia. I ended up, and I'm going to end up with a personal story, but I'm sure she's a collector, because I understand that I think she should want to say "build a new country." I lost my job six years ago. And I found three of them part-time, but it was a long way to get to the thousand euros, even though the working day involved getting out of the house to the six and getting to the nine of the evening. And then I had to go to the foreigner to work. And it wasn't my fault, obviously, but the feeling of absolute lack of opportunity and failure took me to the suitcase. The first day I came into this Parliament I told myself that I would never, absolutely ever forget that pain, and that I would never forget the compromise I have with the people who are in this situation and who still see the feeling that someone stole the future from them. And I'm sure I'm not the only Member of Parliament today who's been or has been through this situation. Because it is not a personal anecdote, it is the reality of a country that has not been able to offer a future to all its people. And it is not the spokesman of the commons who ask for it, it is a generation that asks for answers, that asks for opportunities, that asks for opportunities. Because the construction of a new country can't afford the luxury of doing it without people. We can't afford to do it without ourselves. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.9.0	Thank you, Mrs. Alamany. Now, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it's the turn of the Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.10.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, to explain the position to the motion for a resolution presented to us by the Republican Esquerra Group, the MP Caula, of the Socialists Group and Units for Progress. Okay. I had a reflection, but after feeling the companion Caula... Tell you one thing, and from the affection, obviously, and the "appreciation and respect to all the positions that we all have, to me, personally, the explanation of the motion for a resolution, so the truth is that I still care, if it can be, a little more, they understand many of the things that you say and why you say it. But I think that precisely what you criticize many times is what gives you the feeling that you intend to continue to reproduce. Tell us we're a block. When this congressman who speaks to you, like all of us here, like all of you here, we have different origins, different sensitivities, different perspectives of things and we're not a sect, that sometimes political parties seem like everybody... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, not like you. Neither politics, nor political parties, nor are they blocs, nor are they sects, nor are they uniform blocs, but precisely they are a combination of feelings, emotions, perceptions, knowledge, and, therefore, perhaps all folds make a little more pedagogy – of pedagogy – that we can hear each other, that we can trade, that we can talk, and not continue precisely feeding these blocs, that in the end they divide us and that in the end gives us the feeling that we feed back into good and party benefits. And let's say again: Spain is not the People's Party, nor are they the pots of cream, nor are they corruption, nor are they the detail of the People's Party, nor Catalonia is it, sometimes, the image that is to give that they are the people, that it is a uniform way of making and, therefore, that it is not corresponding. Because, if not, we too could make many similes, many similarities with whom he has ruled for most of these forty years in Catalonia, which has been Convergence, with the abuse of power that has taken place, with cases of corruption and all the parties that either once or another have supported them. I would also like, apart from this reflection, to document the content of the proposal. And the truth, deputies of the Republican Left, so much good has never presented this proposal. So much good has never had to come up with this proposal. And we give it to your hand. In the proposal they put forward, the transactions they have made afterwards, there are obviously some issues that they also have, with which it is certainly difficult to hear everything that has happened. No one can be satisfied with everything that's been going on for the past few years. None, at least someone who has minimal sensitivity to try to get the country to pull forward. Feelings of sad have the conjunction of citizenship– at least the one I express here, the one I have, sad –, rage, a few moments also not to hear why we have come up here and to be disconcerted to see how no one has been able to pose without in many of the difficult decisions that we have made before. No government, nor the Government of Madrid, has been able to say: "Come, let's sit down at the table, let's talk about everything. Talk. Try to find solutions. As well, from the Government of the Generality, taking advantage of a government of Madrid delegitimized for corruption, for retailing... – as I said earlier, the worst version of the Government of the People's Party, eh? – taking advantage of this, so we pull for the right, we skip the laws and come, go, pull forward. Obviously, we've accumulated fracs in the fracs. I tell them, too, to the companies that they have the majority and, therefore, that they have the responsibility to make a government, if that's what it is, or to go to elections: all this is worth it? Getting here all the way? Each one has its priorities and its political project, but we believe that it was not, that it was not worth it. From the esteem and "appreciation that I have, to many of you of all the parliamentary groups, also those who are not here and who, obviously, also have a "personal appreciation...", do we have the problem with the Government of Madrid, politically? Yeah. But we also have the problem between us. And that's what we have to say, we have to look at each other and we have to say it to each other. We have him among us. And who doesn't see this is obviously, so, he's cheating or he's trying to cheat. It's impossible to pull big projects forward, it's impossible to build a country if we're divided. And, obviously, every day that passes is not that we are more socially cohesive, it is not that we are institutionally stronger, but precisely that we are all against it. The critical experience of Catalan society, the plural, open, conciliator of the one who always wants to advance, of the one who always wants to hear with what he thinks different, does not go through the best of his moments today in Catalonia. And all you have to do is look at the independence parties yourself, when someone thinks they're different from the official version of what's going on. I'd love to see what's going on with Mr. Joan Tardà, who wrote an opinion article yesterday in which he gave a series of things that we share, almost all about the dialog, the negotiation, about stopping and trying to open a new stage. So I say again: less gesticulation between what is said here and what is said in the past, less frontism and more will to build, on the basis, above all, to try to take mistakes and, then, obviously to present solutions. I believe that the institutional, social and economic situation has not felt and has no future. It may lead to a reorientation of the current situation. He's not bringing us what we've done so far. The party logic has blocked political solutions, the electoral logic has blocked, therefore, that it is fessin' concessions to try to advance. And we, of course, are willing to leave the comfort zone. We liked that we could make deals, we liked that we accepted some stuff or that we could write some stuff. And we would have given in, but obviously we couldn't agree. On the motion for a resolution? Freedom of speech. Of course we would agree; we would vote in favour of the point that speaks of freedom of expression, condemning acts of violence or the democratic and peaceful defense of political options. And, obviously, what we don't understand is how it can be that when someone calls for peaceful and non-violent actions, as we did, that we put forward, there are votes against, and in change, when you propose it, we obviously add to it. But I think it's important, as I said, to teach, to act responsibly and always – always – to cry out to the respect and tolerance of all folds, because many have passed in this country, in many ways, we have all suffered in our own flesh, and, therefore, it is important not when they pass to you, only when they pass precisely to the other, to which you do not think, that you condemn the acts of rape. I think they've left one of the most important aspects, which is the formation of a government. Cal formation of the government to let back 155, cal do the formation of the government. Mr. Batet, he's still very grateful, because you must think that the country is fine, the country is fine and we can go on like this. So maybe I should try to stop hurting all of your people, try to make government, try to have an interlocutor, try to normalize the situation, huh? , and stop doing partisanship. [[Greetings.]] She's still thanking you very much; she's not thanking me, and I'm not on her bench, okay? Innumerable days we have come home, at least I have come home, yes, with the will to weep, outraged by the situation as we are. [[remorse of the voice]] , indignant with the People's Party, but also indignant with you ; also indignant with you, because they have brought us here. Yes – yes. And also indignant that he uses disgracies like La Manada's feeling to make... to justify his political project. [[Greetings.]] That's not a waste. It's true. The worst, the worst... listen, listen, I... I don't care if I applaud the people of Ciutadans or go grabbing your hand, okay? Because I defend ideas, and when you say an idea that I share, I will applaud it without any problem. And the day I get out of the trench and the day I get out on the street and I start teaching people this pedagogy and not feeding low passions, so maybe we'll move on. While, obviously, we will continue with this loop, what electoral results do you give them, but my mother which country we have, huh? What country do we have? And on the day that the People's Party can be taken out and, obviously, the People's Party and those who compete with them, who are the lords of Ciutadans..., obviously, also tell them that it does not help that Mr. Rivera feeds the frontism, the competition, the plane that makes more anti-Catalanism from Madrid. Because you, too, from Ciutadans, say one thing here, but you also have to say the same thing there. Don't fan – don't fan. Therefore, those fears that we obviously share, are common sense, we will vote for them; those fears that we have already said, those of the exhibition of motius, as well as some elements that we do not share..., we will not say. So much good has not been undertaken and so much good has not missed the state of autonomy. So much boo has ever applied 155, but so much boo– so much boo– [[Funnel veils]] ...Yes, yes. Listen, when you do, then you can talk, now it's up to me. So good, huh? There was no unilateral declaration of independence, which everyone knew would have harmful consequences for all of us. [[Greetings.]] So good the People's Party did not play to confront the citizens of Catalonia, to confront the territories...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.11.0	Mr. Ordeig...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.12.0	...as well as Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.13.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.14.0	...and so much good – I'm done, President – you didn't pull for the right and get loaded with reason. I totally share what Congressman Joan Tardà says: "And now what? So, now, it's time to make government, dialog and negotiation, to overcome the frontism. A people's sun. Yes, Joan Tardà, a people's sun.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.15.0	Time's up, Mr. Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.16.0	Thank you, President. "And raising the flag of the bilateral dialogue with the State is an inescapable goal. That's what Joan Tardà says; that's what we also share with the Socialists Party of Catalonia and Forward Units. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.17.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP and, in its name, Mrs. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.18.0	Go, for the vehemence of the lord of the PSOE, anyone would say he threw in front of 155. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.19.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.20.0	We were talking about political and civil rights in the motion for a resolution presented by the Republican Left Group of Catalonia. Of course we could give him support. It is obvious that the four humble votes of the CUP - Creed constitute in favor of an PR of these characteristics are or should be of calaix. Of course the CUP - Creed Constitutes denounces the permanent violation of civil and political rights, as well as the phonenal rights that are patenting citizenship, Catalan institutions and their representatives. It is obvious that we vigorously defend the fundamental rights. And of course we want the immediate release of people who find themselves in prison and those who find themselves in exile, without having the proper conditions to be able to return. And, of course, we also want to expel 155 and its consequences to expel the day-to-day Catalan politics in an immediate way. So, there's a reason that makes it very difficult for us to support this resolution, and that's what we'd agree with the companies or the MPs of the PSOE, that they didn't even accept a compromise, because Esquerra told us no. The CUP - Cry Constituent we presented a little piece; a little bit more, an almost fine piece of paper, a piece because the eighth point you stayed with the next draft, and let me read it. And we want you to stay that way – they see that they are small-minded – : "The Catalonian Parliament expresses the need to urgently recover all Catalan institutions and end the imposition of Articles 135 and 155 of the Spanish Constitution in order to put them in the service of the popular classes, allow us to exercise everything necessary to advance socially and politically with the expressed intentions of October 1 and December 21. The deputies of Esquerra Republicana will tell us: « Home, there is no such thing! You're talking about some different words at this point. Well, I wish that the people who listen to us and the present ones would not be surprised that we find the most normal of the world to speak of the popular will of October 1 in a motion for a resolution that defends civil and political rights. What can the right to self-determination not be a political right? Maybe you don't have to defend him? Yesterday, he read an interesting article by the Member of Parliament that ended for the 155 Albano Dante Fachin on the day, referring to the massive revolt that took place at the gates of the schools on October 1st and the popular uprising of October 3rd, said: "I may be faithful to his mandate. It may compromise together with the new reality arising from the event. Even if this compromise requires us to break with the marches in which we moved before its arrival, it may be faithful to the mandate and it does not fall in the tempt to try to restore its strength to pre-emptive positions, even though these are more comfortable. It's time to venture into the unknown. The event is obvious, the concrete event that has led us to be independent to be republicans, the event that will last years, the event that cannot be silenced, and less in an almost symbolic action, such as a motion for a resolution. Obviously, the event I'm talking about is October 1st. The October 1st that we do not want to forget and that you, Republican Left of Catalonia, have told us that you do not want to talk about the October 1st in a resolution proposal that will often pass without pity or glory. And they still surprise us. I'll be told that all this has nothing to do with a motion for a resolution on civil and political rights. I insist, the right to self-determination is an irrevocable right, it is an irrevocable political right, and you, in this text, that is what will be written in this chamber, they have renounced it, they have said no. Remember, Mr. and Mr. of Esquerra Republicana: you must be faithful to the mandate, to the mandate of the event, and you renounce every political action you take forward. Please, be clear; not with the CUP - Constituent Cry: be clear with people, loyally to the popular will. This is not true of heroes and traitors, as it simplifies in a victimistic and opportunistic way the figure Santi Vila, which well knows; it is clear, it is determined, it is memory and it is popular will. They also told us that with this text we would add more support and such. It is very clear to me: there are eight Members in favour of a simple motion for a resolution who will not be able to open the base; four Members will not be able to do so, of course. If they want to make autonomy, turn back the glove of the leader of the Commons, but remember: the country is not within these four pairs, that elongating the base did not add votes to the tops of parties...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.21.0	Mrs. Sànchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.22.0	... – I finish – that excavating the base means questioning a lot of people with the republic project. There's a large social majority that shares the precariousness of the workers, there's one of us out of the way, and the only way to do justice to these people is to make a republic – I don't laugh, Mrs. Caula, I don't laugh when you talk. The difficulty in accessing a decent job, a quality public service or a decent life..., we ask these people, and we don't do it from the top, we do it from the bottom, we do it the majority that exists, which is most precarious...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.23.0	Mrs. Sànchez, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.24.0	...and we have social policies in this republic that we decided on October 1. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.25.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.26.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Seneca said that the language of truth must, without doubt, be simple and without artifices. But you are the kings of artifices. In fact, this presentation is an example today. This is a proposal of those who like it so much, a proposal of those of Matrix, because it is that reading this proposal is like taking the red pill or appearing on the other side of Narnia's closet, an unreal world, a parallel world and a world in which only you live, a world in which you are called « the revolution of smiles, where Puigdemont is believed the Messiah and where we are told that Europe makes the wave, come on. But the reality is quite different. Look, Puigdemont lied from the beginning. He had no plan, no social majority, no legal coverage. Your road map was and remains an improvised bump, a perpetual mess, one thing, an endless story, huh? First, independence in eighteen months; then no, then seductive referendum. Hey, but then I proclaim the republic; at eight seconds I repent and suspend it. Then I run away, then I threaten to come back, then I say no, you know what? , you better invest me away, that, hey, from here it's very quiet. That's Mr. Puigdemont and that's the Messiah you follow. And the problem is that this is how we have been 134_days, 134_days where we can form government not because they don't want to, 134_days where 7_million_and_average Catalans we have to be aware of Puigdemont and its occurrences, of a lord who is escaped and imputed, 134_days where because of his paralysis we can't talk about health, we can't talk about education, we can't talk about dependence, we can't talk about anything that's really urgent in Catalonia. Because you know what's going on? That that in Matrix doesn't matter, because in Matrix it only matters its process and the desire they have to continue living from it. In their world of lies, they tell us that Spain is a democracy of pladur, but in the real world Spain is a full democracy, considered by The Economist as one of the best; ahead, for example, of Belgium, eh? By the way, where Mr. Puigdemont fled. It's curious. In their world of lies, everyone was going to support them, everyone, but in the real world there has not been a single recognition, from any country, from any institution. And don't get me out of the UN, please, huh? , which is an acknowledgement of receipt, however much you insist on something else. That we know how to read, please! Do you remember what Tajani, the President of the European Parliament, told you? I have it here: "No one in the European Union will recognise a declaration of unilateral independence, because it contravenes the Spanish Constitution and therefore contravenes Community law. Or what Timmermans told them; I also have it here: "Everyone has the right to express himself, but not to ignore the law, which is what you do. But, hey, in your Matrix, in your parallel world, you say yes, yes, you have international support. And you know what's sadder? That in the real world the only international support they have comes from the extreme European right, from the European ultra-right forces. The first person who went to visit Mr Puigdemont in prison: the leader of Alternative for Germany, party of extreme right. I, much like to breastfeed, the truth is, I don't see it, these friends who are looking for each other, because only – only – are supported by the Europhobes, the Europhobes who see in you the perfect excuse to end the European Union project. Because the European Union means union, it means cooperation, it means solidarity, it means coexistence, it means the opposite of what you are doing. You guys talk to us too... it's just a lot of things, huh? Let's see if I can find him... here. Well, they tell us to chase them for their ideas, but in the real world you call us subjects, call us traitors, call us occupants – a Republican Left Senator. You declare us a non-grateful person in the municipalities where you rule. Do you know why? Simply because we think differently; simply because we are proud to be Catalan, Spanish and European. You are dedicated to distributing good and bad Catalan notebooks; you say who is good, and who is bad Catalan. Are you with me? Good Catalan. Aren't you? Bad Catalan. Well, what do I say 'bad Catalan, not that, not even Catalan: occupier and traitor. What, that there are 1,100,000 occupying Catalans and traitors? Or 1,100,000 Catalans who are already fed up with their lies, who want to live in peace and quiet and not be looking to see if today they cut a road or cut a road or cut off..., or what is going to happen to them? It's all right – it's all right. [[Greetings.]] Reconnect with reality. In this proposal you speak of legal interference; you who, running, took Jordi Sànchez to put Jordi Turull. Why? Why did they want me to be president? No, no. Because he was quoted by the Supreme Court and then the thinking head, Puigdemont, said: "That's it. Let's move Rome with Santiago, let's take Sánchez, let Torrent put himself here to call running – at night, if necessary, eh? "And we named Turull." And so, then, we can say things like what they say here in this explanatory statement: that Turull was imprisoned during the investiture session. Of course, Mr Puigdemont, as he does not come to work, despite being charging, therefore, he has time, the man, to scurry and to invent these things. " There is no interference! Says those who send letters to the judge; those who with everyone's money pretend to file a complaint with a public servant, huh? Those who in their Transitional Law chose judges and prosecutors; they tell us about interference. Come on, I mean, this is surreal, this is Matrix, Narnia and the unknown dimension all together. And they go on, huh? , and they're still on the roll. They tell us about the struggle of non-violence. And they tell us – and I quote textually –: « Ciutadans organizats that peacefully show their disagreement – referring to the CDRs. Well, you have to ask what "peaceful" means in Matrix, because, of course, the same thing it means here isn't, is it? Because here we have to get escorted out of Parliament by the police; here we are being crushed; here the seats of the political parties are being attacked; the homes are being pointed out; here we are being attacked by public officials and militants; here we are being threatened with death – to the president of my parliamentary group, to the president of my party. Do you know why? For thinking differently. Is this peaceful? Is this peaceful? Because I'm starting to worry that they think it is. Because, if not, how do you explain not to be convicted? Because we do, as long as they do to us and when they do to others. Do you intend to condemn what you are going to continue to make excuses? Or do they now believe that because they have already submitted this proposal, they have already solved the ballot, they have already covered the gap? Well, no. I mean, they've had plenty of opportunities to do that already. A few weeks ago, here in this House, in this House, we tabled a proposal to condemn violence, and you, Esquerra Republicana, together with Junts per Catalunya, the CUP and the commons – your usual partners – voted against – voted against. Look, I got it right here. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] March 28th plenary session...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.27.0	Please... please, shut up. Quiet! [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.28.0	In plenary session on 28 March, point 6 was replaced by the following: Look at him, Mrs. Alamany. Do you know what's going on? That you have to come here with your homework done. And when you come here to say something, like what you said... [[Greetings.]] Yes, yes... Look, when you come here to say something like what you said that we had not gone to support... We, myself – I myself – were in the concentration in Tarragona against La Manada's sentence, and my companions were also in Barcelona. [[Greetings.]] Where were you? – Where were you? Because we didn't see it – because we didn't see it. [[Widow's remorse.]] We have to come here a little bit... [[Widow's remorse.]] They're book populists – book populists –, they've dropped their face already, we've seen it; they always go hand in hand with the independence lords. He came here and didn't condemn anything that happened. Hala, come Citizens, Citizens, Citizens. They're obsessed. You've got citizenship. Really, make him look at it. Worry yourself a little about what is happening in Catalonia and look for other partners, because it goes cloth with which it has been searched. [[Greetings.]] This same week, too – this week – they have had the opportunity to re-condemn violence with an institutional statement promoted by my group. A statement that had a clear and clear message. Look, I was saying that in democracy, democrats must be united above political differences, and condemn violence unanimously, huh? And we get it to her and, oh! Surprise, they don't even answer us. Let's see if they'll explain to me why at the turn of the replica. Or, better yet, to see if in the turn of the replica they take advantage to make clear what they condemn and what they do not condemn. Yesterday my colleague, Congresswoman Sonia Sierra, asked him, and you did not answer. But I'll give them the chance again. Do they condemn vandalism against the headquarters of political parties? Yes or no? Do they condemn the slavery that is being done to us? Yes or no? Do you condemn the assaults that some of our public offices have received just for being so? Yes or no? Do you condemn the death threats to the president of my parliamentary group, the president of my party? Yes or no? The indications of private houses, do they condemn them? Yes or no? The campaigns of persecution of journalists, of harassment of the president of my party, condemn him? Yes or no? Mrs Caula, who you have spoken of... « l'escalf – l'escalf – to journalists, do you condemn these campaigns, Mrs Caula? They give them this ladder, Mrs. Caula, what did you say? [[Greetings.]] Yes or no? No artifices – no artifices. Because the language of truth doesn't need them. What I have just asked you is the amendments that we have tabled to you. And what have they done? Of course, reject the, of course. And that's why we're going to vote against it. Because they don't want to concretize, they don't want to condemn all the violence. What are you afraid of? You present this proposal to cover the file, because going beyond it scares you. Because to do so would be to explain the truth of what is happening in Catalonia. It would be to recognize the damage that the independence parties have done to Catalonia. It'd be a recognition of what we were denied in this camera yesterday, huh? We were told that here in Catalonia there is no rupture, that here in Catalonia there is no confrontation. Repeating that lie won't make families reconcile.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.29.0	Mrs. Roldán, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.30.0	Yes, I'm done, President. Repeating that lie won't make cohabitation come back. Repeating that lie won't get us out of this. And I finish, I finish if I allow myself, just as I started, with a quote, this time from Socrates: "The lie wins bazaars, but the truth wins the game. Recognise that they have lost, let go of artifices and return to reality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.31.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roldán. It is now, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the return of Mr Lluís Font.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.32.0	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, to make my debut as a speaker in this chamber has a point of nostalgia, because it is a first experience that I will never pass again: the nerves predicted, the preparation, the readings... And, therefore, I am left with this ambivalent retaste. Edgar Morin, in the book Thinking Europe, writes the year 1987, to plan 179, reflecting on European identity, says the following: "Democracy lives with diversity and complexity. It is not based on the absence of conflicts and antagonisms, but on their existence and activity. It constitutes the rule of play that allows and regulates its expression. It regulates it by channeling the discourse and the exchange of arguments within the framework of assemblies, electoral campaigns or referendums. It is therefore nourished by the disorders that individual freedoms constitute in themselves. About what Morin explains so well will pay my brief intervention. Precisely, in order to put into practice the experience that this famous sociologist, Edgar Morin, claimed in his book, each in his own way, there are advisers, deputies, the president of the Generality, social leaders, political leaders, singers, intellectuals, women, retired, all, one in prison, the others in exile, some threats or expectations of being there. I, in concrete, is said Jordi, Dolors, Carles, Clara, Marta, Quim, Raül. But I don't want to talk about them, but about you, honourable Members, about myself, about our children, about the city of Catalonia, because it's our freedom, it's our rights, it's the democratic quality of the society in which we live, we don't deceive ourselves. I don't have to quote Brecht to remind you. Catalonia saw an exceptional and dramatic situation. Eric Blair enlisted in the International Brigades, he was in the rules of the POUM to the Spanish Civil War. Transformed into George Orwell I wrote Hommenatge in Catalonia, for me a book of reference is narrated the vivid experience. Orwell realizes that something important is going on in Catalonia. The whole of the cruelty is staged and in a small territory the struggle of democracy against the two great totalitarianisms: Francoism, Feixism, Nazism and Stalinism. There are confluences between factors and circumstances that are premonitions of future European conflicts. And that's what I'd like to talk about, saving the time gaps and circumstances, possibly here in Catalonia, is giving some circumstances, some facts, a reality that is a premonition of situations that will be experienced by the Spanish State or in other European contras. A game of legitimacy and values, perspectives and interests, sensitivities and emotions is staged. Let's all look at it, I'm the first one, with some eyes that allow us to get to grips with reality because this is manifest, not from a source that prevents us from knowing this polyphonic reality. Surely the analysis of what is happening in our country will help us anticipate future scenes. Chateaubriand, a les Memorias de ultratumba, the February of 1821, wrote: « It could be that Spain quickly changed its monarchy for a republic. If I were allowed the joke, in order to read it further, I could not have imagined the commons having a friend, an ally, someone who in some other context, at the beginning of the 19th century, supported some theses, if I were allowed the joke, looking like they had once manifested. "Also," he says, "it is possible that this same Spain will remain if it is constituted in federated republics, an addition to which it is more favorable than any other country for the diversity of its kingdoms, its customs, its laws and even its language. And the text continues to gloss over the fragility of the Spanish political system. We're talking about the principles of the 19th century. The founding peers of liberalism, Jefferson's political theory, Stuart Mill, defended the convenience of criticizing democracy, its pathologies, to invigorate it, to put it up to date, to regenerate it. But that's not what happened to the peninsular lands. The process has shown some democratic deficits, some pathologies; but, at the same time, the process has served some Spanish economic political elites to kill the messenger, to cover up, under the pretext of the unit of Spain, which would be the necessary and imperative task of the same regeneration. And with this they gave the reason to Chateaubriand in his denunciation of the fragility of the Spanish political system. For these reasons, and for others who do not come to the case, we find the motion for a resolution that the Republican Group has tabled very uncertain, and I now announce that we will vote in favour. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr. President, and for another occasion. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Font. It is the turn, now, for a five-minute space, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, and in its name, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.34.0	Thank you very much, President. The definition of the right, freedom and democratic quality of different nations is not concrete by raising a saying to see where the wind is blowing or through a poetic introspection. There are people who dedicate themselves to it, professionals who develop indicators and who, through the scientific method, make classifications. The most prestigious, cited and disseminated of all, has been said before, is the one published annually by The Economist, the nameless index of democracy. According to this index, in the world there have only been full democracies, of which there are – imagine who? – It's..., Es-pa..., anims, Espanya, very good. Someone said it here. It costs them a lot. Effectively. Spain is one of the full democracies of the world, according to The Economist, and surpasses – it was said before – the United States, Belgium, Italy, France, which belong to the second classification, which is that of imperfect democracies. This is the reality, the absolutely indisputable reality, which is opposed to its inflamed, hyperbolic and grandiose dialectics, which only generates tension and which, moreover, is an absolutely suicidal strategy – I say to them with all respect – for one reason: because it is self-destructive. Your goals are impossible, and when these become unviable, they try to turn them into phonenal rights. That's to say, they want to turn crimes into phoneial rights. And it's a suicide strategy because we're not, much like, in North Korea. I'll give you three examples. Mirin, you have signed up as an objective to make a unilateral reference that must have European type-approval. They said it again. It quickly proved that this was unworkable. Then they wanted to turn it into a fundamental right. So no; making a unilateral reference to the European Union is not a fundamental right, it is a hard illegality. Then they went a step further; they made a unilateral declaration of independence that – I quote in text Ms. Marta Rovira – had to have the immediate recognition of twenty-one great democracies of the world. Obviously, this object was quickly proved unviable, and they wanted to turn it into a phone book. So no; to the European Union, making a unilateral declaration of independence is not a phonenal right, it is a hard crime. This legislature, continue with the same strategy. They said they'd make Mr. Puigdemont president with an investiture at a distance. It has been quickly shown that it is unworkable and then they mean that a phone law is being violated. So no; it turns out that it's all the contrary, it's not a phonetic right; this investment at a distance turns out that it's a hard irregularity and illegality, and that, besides, if anything violates– the Council of State Guarantees, the people of this house and the same Constitutional Court – it's the rights of the rest of the chamber. They can't convert crimes and illegalities into phonenal rights. It's a suicide, self-destructive strategy that, above all, will investigate the situation. What can we do? I can tell you that many times we think about this, that's to say, here we all live, in this region, community, country, that each one of us tells you what he wants. Something we have to do, obviously. In this late Sant Jordi, a good friend gave me the latest work of Michael Ignatieff, The daily virtues in a world in conflict. He's one of the most fascinating thinkers of our era. Well, during your reading, I thought of you. From time to time. Tell me masochist, but sometimes I think of you. Above all, because it precisely counters this inflamed, hyperbolic and grandiose dialectic of the populisms we live with the daily virtues. And that made me think about reconciliation and coexistence here in Catalonia. Think of one thing: when you give a lift to a CDR that cuts a road, the people who come up late to work are neither from Belgium, nor from Berlin, nor from Guadalajara, nor from Madrid, it is here that they feel their rights violated. Do you think they won't answer? When someone assigns a student to the classrooms, it's perfectly normal and stops after the assesyalin to him. Effectively. Or do you think things are different? Look, you have to make it very clear that to get back together you'll have to accept one thing, and I know it costs you a lot. Because it is indisputable: we are not in North Korea; Spain, with its imperfections, that has them, is not a full democracy just because the Economist, is a member of the European Union, is a great European nation, and so it is recognized to the international community. Mr. Pujol said, in one of those inflamed interventions he always says: "We are coughs– we are coughs. But reality is much more coughing, yet. And they ask them to reflect on the coughing reality and that they are asking a later question, also, with poetic introspection, that they like them very much in this legislature: are you, are you better now or a year ago? I think then if his strategy is good.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.35.0	Mr. Fernández...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.36.0	Is Catalonia better now or is it a year ago? I think if his strategy is the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.37.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Now, then, and to indicate which elements are accepted and as the definite text that is put to the vote remains, has the word again Mrs. Anna Caula for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.38.0	Thank you, President. First, to make it clear that we would accept, as we have said, two or three points, together with Junts per Catalunya i Puede. So thank the facilities so that we can reach agreement. On the part of the representative of the PP, remind him also the headline of the 31st of the I of the 18, of The Economist, who said: "Spain can lose the status of full democracy. So, I think that's a good summary. To the company of the PSC, with all the esteem, because I think that in many values we would probably share it, as well, to its explanation I found there is something missing. I don't know if it's from the Unionist bloc, but it's true that it's the one who allowed 155, and it seems that I don't know it, that there's a point to it, but if 155 is here right now, it's because you also allowed it. To the representative of Ciutadans, in reality his discussions, therefore, we have not accepted them. I had a conversation with you. I think we're criminalizing all the violence. Actually making a list of concrete things and leaving you'many other things is not the hope we want. We want, in principle, to report everything. I, from here, talk to the CUP, right? I think the hand will always be extended. Our commitment to self-determination seems to me to be full. They only have to read point 2, as with this point it does be reflected and, therefore, there is our involvement always. Because, beyond words, beyond what I've been here, I don't understand, because I don't think he's listened to me for the minutes I've spoken – I think he's come with a very prepared speech – I think I can also remember how he got here. There's an October 1st. Remember that. Let's remember who allowed this October 1st to end, which is in prison: Vice President Junqueras, Conseller Bassa, Conseller Romeva, President Forcadell... Who is in exile: our general secretary, Marta Rovira. And like so many, so many others. Just remind him of two sentences from his group, which gave us one day Mr. Riera, which gave us the day of the investiture of a president...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.39.0	Mrs. Caula, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.40.0	... that he couldn't be president and is in prison – now I'm done –: "Let's finish the process and the alliances and move to opposition. That's what he reminded us of. But let's just keep the same spirit. The best defense of self-determination rights is not to proclaim it at every moment, but to win agreements every time wider, as this PR achieves. But we will continue to defend this right from the hand of the UPC every day and in all areas of our political action. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.41.0	Thank you, Mrs. Caula. Call it a vote. [[Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Alamany? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.42.0	Okay. To clarify quickly some of the things that have been said, particularly Ciutadans. I remind you that on March 28, this group voted in favour of the condemnation of vandalism against its political parties, insults, threats and attacks, and we also expressly condemned the inadmissible practices of declaring a person not grateful. So that reality doesn't kick you a good headline – that reality doesn't kick you a good headline. And to the CUP tell him that there is nothing more autonomous than to approve antisocial assumptions that further complement Montoro's Law of Enabling. Thank you. [[Greetings. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.43.0	Yes, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.44.0	Yes, thank you, President; to ask for a separate vote on point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.45.0	Okay. Is there any other...? Ask if there are any other points by separate vote and then I will give the word for other questions. [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.46.0	Yes, President; to ask for a separate vote on points 3 and 4, and, for another group, on point 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.47.0	All right. Any other separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.48.0	Well, by allusions. Two very short things. Simply, October 1st, of course, they did these institutions, but especially the people did. To Mrs. Alamany..., I suppose she's referring to the 2010 Initiative Presumptions. And, finally, ask if you would like to vote separately from this point. And yes, Anna, the text that is written, as I said in my intervention, is what makes no reference to '1 October, as we simply asked. And for many words that we put in what we want done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.49.0	Mrs. Sànchez, she said "this point, but I don't know what point she meant. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Eight o'clock. Okay. The 8th and not the 8th, huh, I get it? Is that the 8th separate from the 8th, Mrs. Sánchez? The 8 separate from the 8 bis point, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.50.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.51.0	Okay. All right. So let's get to the vote. We will start with the points that have been asked to vote separately. We'll start with point number three. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. This was approved by 94 votes to 40, with no abstentions. Let's now proceed to the vote on Point 4 – Point 4. Let's start the vote. This point is approved unanimously; that is to say, 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 8, only 8, huh? ; then we will vote on 8a. The vote begins. This point was approved by 74 votes to 60, with no abstentions. And let's now proceed to the vote on point 9. The vote begins. This was approved by 78 votes to 56, with no abstentions. And now, if I did not leave a separate vote, we would proceed to the vote on the remaining points of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was adopted by 78 votes to 56, with no abstentions. [[Proposal for a resolution on adherence to European principles and values]] [[250-00150/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on adherence to European principles and values presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. To present it has the word, for a maximum of two minutes, the Frenchman of Dalmases. As always, they ask that if they have to abandon the hemicicle they do it in silence. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.52.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, journalists, staff from this house, who are so good at us, when we prepared this motion for a resolution on Europe, on European values, we were very concerned that, more than a geographical area or a geopolitical power, Europe is an idea, values of freedom, democracy, justice and respect...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.53.0	Please... a moment, Mr. De Dalmases, a moment – a moment, a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.54.0	...inspired by a long, humanistic tradition. And I seem to speak of Europe, because whenever these values are violated, on the centre or periphery of the continent, Europe is less Europe. For this reason, promotion, knowledge and recognition of European identity, of European values, is a collection of all the people we live and live with in Europe. The main challenge for European identity is to ask it in plurality and to demand the sum of identities, languages, cultures and traditions. It's exactly what George Steiner claimed and proposed in his book The idea of Europe in the year 2005. Europe, a sense of doubt, will die if it does not fight for its languages, its traditions and its social autonomy. Indeed, it is not possible to hear Europe without Antoni Gaudí, without Pau Casals or without Salvador Dalí. Our language, spoken from the Catalan Countries – Valencia, the Islands, Andorra, the Northern Catalonia, the Gaza Strip and also from Alguer – is that, for more than 11 million people, not one of the most extensive European languages? Our writers and thinkers – Ramon Llull, Ausiàs March, Espriu, Mercè Rodoreda or Jaume Cabré – are not part of the European literary canon? Our research centres, our universities, our researchers, our researchers don't work with their European colleagues to create value, talent and excellence across the continent? NGOs working for cooperation, peace and human rights in the world, are not indestriable parts of the European networks in this sector? Our businesses, the goods we produce, we don't export them to Europe, which is our most important market? Is Catalonia not, in short, one of the main economic engines of Europe, the most prosperous region of the Mediterranean and a net contributor to the resources of the Union's budget? The answer is a yes, a great yes. At the length of its history, Catalonia has been deeply European, the medieval institutions of darkness and darkness remind us and tell us. The national fullness of our country is closely linked to European values. Any political or cultural project in Catalonia today has always been related to Europe. There is also no European project without Catalonia today and there is no Catalonia without Europe. We live in a time of change and transformations in Europe, and this time of change is forged locally and permeates the global dimension. We would hardly be able to understand that these changes and transformations refer only to economic or commercial hegemony, because what we are playing at, what is coming down, is the model of society that will emerge hegemonic to Europe and the world: that of falling essentially democratic or of authoritarian dependence. That is why it seems essential for us to consolidate a European and global approach. The model of European society that we defend prevents the judicialization of politics, the politicization of the judiciary and the criminalization of ideas, because they constitute a first order attack that weakens the European project. Values have no borders and essential democratic principles either. And precisely for this reason we propose that the answer today, more than ever, must be: let us find Europe! Homes and women of Europe and the world, our freedom is yours, you follow our eyes, our sight, as we add our gaze and our accent. Catalonia is Europe and Europe is the home of the Catalans; we are not so geographically alone, but the pitfalls, our pitfalls, deep into it and reach out to their souls in an indestructible way. The Catalans are net of Greece, Rome and the Carlemany Carolingi Empire, and we are sons of Erasmus, Shakespeare and Goethe, and we are Germans of Tolstoy, Hannah Arendt and Václav Havel. That is why today we propose to reaffirm our commitment, the commitment of Catalonia to the perennial original project of a hidden Europe to overcome totalitarianism and extend the democracy of the continent and the world. The European Union is the political, social and economic space in which every person and every nation sees human rights respected in their individual and collective dimensions and in which political conflicts are resolved with political and civic, peaceful and democratic means. Europe must also be a space of understanding, dialogue and mediation. Europe must be that space where all the glass or ants that make equity a reality that I stopped being a dream for women and also for the men of this continent. We defend that the republican experiment links even more Catalonia with Europe and Europe with Catalonia. Europe has always represented our collective aspirations for a new and better country. And it is precisely Europe and the whole world that we offer the best we have: the cause of Catalonia, which has always been the cause of freedom. We are and want to be the Europe that Simone Weil imagined, a Europe based on freedom and democracy, united against violence, totalitarianism and racism. Europe is timely for Catalonia, as always, and Catalonia is timely for Europe, as ever. The rise in populism in Europe and in the post-Brexit scenario has shown how naked the queen in Europe is and has demonstrated the democratic fragility of a political project that should be used above all in the European Parliament's decision-making. In a recent meeting of our group in Berlin, President Puigdemont recommended this Rob Riemen book to us to fight this time. [[The orator shows a book to the chamber.]] Use the recommendation a lot. Riemen, defender of European humanism, raises his voice and warns: « In Europe, populism always preserves the resurgence of fascism. In this dynamic of populism poorly understood by the Western world, Catalonia is a rare and magnificent exception. The political formations and ideological currents that have been able to connect with the social and political evolution of the Catalan society, we are the parliamentary groups that hold the absolute majority in this Parliament. This has been possible and is understood because we have counted on leaders who have been able to listen and read the Catalan society. We have not fallen into populism, but we are proposing an illustrative political project, of republican construction, in a transversal way, and yes, another time we will repeat it: civic, peaceful and democratic. That is why, like Catalans, he laughs when he wants to attack this political project, saying that he is leaving Europe, when precisely what he does is to recover the good and better of European ideals. Europe must be a political space with the necessary tools and democratic guarantees that need to be faced with from Brexit to intervention in Syria, from a European perspective of conflict resolution, and it is not yet. Catalonia, I do not explain to you again, is a modern, dynamic, entrepreneurial and socially strong country, and the establishment of the Catalan Republic must also be observed as an act of deep Europeanism. Paradoxically, this apparently modern project recovers that old idea of Europe that Schuman and Monnet imagined, which they defined as the voluntary union of all European souls, that of people and that of nations. Now that we have come to know the worst version of globalisation, which makes everything uniform, European societies are calling for a relationship to the concrete realities of each country, of each language, of each culture. The square of the circle, the same European complexity, becomes a global actor without giving up the local dimensions of all Europeans. Catalan society knows what it talks about when it talks about right to decide. And when we talk about the future and we talk about Europe, we talk exactly about this: to decide also which Europe we want to be citizens of. And we want to be from a Europe that is essentially democratic and compromised with human progress, with the maintenance of the welfare state and with the promotion, knowledge and recognition of human rights. Arrive at this point, ask you to remove any shadow of ethnocentrism in this proposal for today's resolution. Today we are talking about Europe, but our world is the world, and what we propose and defend for our continent we defend and defend it. And neither do we want to talk about Europe without talking about the shames of Europe. The generation to which he belonged lived and lived marked by the slaughter, by the massacre of Srebrenica. On 11 July 1995, eight-thousand Europeans – eight-thousand Europeans – were massacred, murdered before the liabilities of European governments and institutions. From the end of Europe, and with special strength from Catalonia, we conjured ourselves to say that we would not allow a tragedy of these characteristics and of this size to occur again. But he came back. It's coming through again. The same passivity of European governments and institutions has allowed the Mediterranean to fall from those who have right to seek a better future, along with fame and violence: more than 35,000 recorded deaths since the year 2000. The least tragic estimates speak of four Srebrenics ofgades to the Mediterranean. That is why we also invite you to denounce the European countries and especially the Spanish State, which has not fulfilled its commitments to the gathering of people seeking refuge. In Saskia Sassen's words "a social Europe is needed, which, instead of expelling and marginalising, is the strength of democracy. I'm done. The worst Europe, which we want unrepeatable, is the one that made us serve groans stars to pursue, criminalize and annoint people and collectors for their identity. The best Europe, which we want forever, is free and democratic Europe, the Europe which in Catalonia expresses itself with a groceries in the record of the President, the Vice-President, the Councillors and the Councillors, the Members of Parliament and the social leaders to whom they owe so much. The one who pursues an ideal of freedom, based on rights and dues...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.55.0	Lord of Dalmatias...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.56.0	... – I finish – and he recognizes in democracy and in his own ways the only way to get it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.57.0	Thank you, Mr De Dalmases. Next, to defend the papers presented, is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.58.0	Good morning to everyone, deputies, deputies, Bureau of Parliament... we find ourselves another time with a proposal a little sloppy, a little bit of great values and principles, don't we? But it's hard to know what values and principles we're talking about. Because the truth is, things have gotten so generic, haven't they? , so universal, that, of course, one can hardly agree with many of the things that are said. Who doesn't actually share them? But the truth is, we don't really like the text or the whole thing. We don't like it because the exhibition part is, quite simply, so, smug, don't we? , superlative, transcendental, grandiloquent, right? This way of talking and taking the part for the whole and making it all transcend that it has the process in the last few days. He also translated – and by much that the Lord of Dalmases wanted to deny it – a certain supremacy and ethnicism, right? Or follow Catalonia, Catalans and Catalans are the most of the most, Europe is the most of the most... And it's something that unfortunately has been translated from a long time ago also certain sectors of the process. I advance that we will vote in favour despite everything they feel, because we share enough of the fund, even if not the form, of some of the agreements, and also because we have made better proposals that have been accepted. And that made it easier for us to vote for it. But we do vote with many reservations. And we voted with many reservations because we found this: we found that there was a lack of complexity, we found that there was a lack of diversity, plurality, and, above all, we found a lot of inconsistency and a lot of inconsistency and contradiction between what the Lords of Together say for Catalonia at their proposal and what their political representatives do afterwards. Above all, what principles and what European values are we talking about? Because we cannot share all European principles and values. The Austerity Europe? The ones in the clipboards? The ones who were about to suffocate Greece? The ones who tried with Spain, Catalonia incluses? Those of the retail policies and "austericism that have had all the support and complacent collaboration of the government of Mr. Mas, his ministers and again Mrs. Artadi, who was also excited to apply these retails to achieve it? [[Rialles.]] Yes, yes, I did. For now, we can only talk like this, maybe next week we can do it to you in another way. The values of free trade Europe, TTIP and CETA, which have before them the interests of people the interests of free trade multilaterals, and which the PDECAT has surprisingly voted in favour, both of the European Parliament and of the Congress! And not to guess who they voted in favour of Parliament and Congress, the European Parliament? So, yes: with Citizens and the People's Party, another time! That's what they find agreeable about. So, these principles and these European values we do not share. Nor do we share those of insolidary Europe, which closes borders – then we'll talk more about it. Neither are the people of Europe advancing neo-pheixism; the Europe of opaque institutions, people's elongations, few democracies, which has made England a good part of the popular classes have voted to leave a Europe that does not understand them, that does not support them. So no, this Europe does not like us, a masculist and patriarchal Europe, which regulates all the less the masculist rapes, which does not require its member states, as it does require them in other matters, that they rule and avoid making feelings like that of La Manada a week ago or that pose assumptions, indeed, to the pact of state against gender rape and feminicides. But despite all this, we do not like the people of Europe, but there are things that please us, so there are things that are working towards a fairer and fairer Europe, but that do not appear either to the proposal of Junts for Catalonia. We found missing women, we found missing feminism. Among the referents there is one, but Europe is much more than the names they give. Catalan women have been missing, like Frederica Montseny, a prime minister; like Montserrat Roig; Marina Ginestà, the veteran militia of Sant Antoni; Dolors Aleu, the first degree in medicine from the Spanish State and one of the first in Europe; Francesca Bonnemaison; Rosa Sensat. Also European women referents for Catalonia, as Elisabeth Eidenbenz, of the motherhood of Elna, as Marie Skłodowska Curie, Simone de Beauvoir, Camille Claudel, Anne Frank, Rosa Luxemburg. To their values and principles in this proposal the lack of feminism, lords and lords of Junts Per Catalunya. There is also a lack of values and principles of the Europe of the people, of the cities and of municipalism. They speak of Barcelona as a referent to be cosmopolitan, and Barcelona is not just a referent for this. Barcelona is a referent because it is committed to social rights, social justice, the fight against pollution, corruption, feminism, talking about the cities of refuge and making a network of cities of refuge; to working with people who are without papers, far beyond what their competitions allow. And it is also the Europe of cities without for, the Europe of organisations and fabric in the network that works precisely to make a Europe fairer and closer to the most vulnerable people. And now, entering directly into the agreements, into the first agreement. The first agreement is a new attempt to seek, once again, the political support for Europe that has not yet been found. And it wasn't because it didn't work out, because there wasn't a good strategy for extending and finding this right-wing support for the people of Catalonia to the European Union countries. Because all the support and solidarity and indignation that raised the excessive and unwarranted violence of '1 October, he abused one_me later with the intent of unilateral declaration of independence. Unilaterality has reinvigorated us. Europe, which is the Europe of the states and we do not forget it, will defend the states. And what has not been done is working with the rest of the Spanish State to expand this social and political support for the right to decide. And if the Spanish State can't get this support, the rest of Europe can't find it either, because it's state Europe. And that's why sometimes Europe is good and sometimes Europe is bad for the representatives of Junts for Catalonia. Sometimes Europe is decadent, sometimes Europe is democracy at the highest level. Sometimes we like it, sometimes we don't want it. We support this agreement because we firmly believe that Europe is playing a key role in resolving the situation in Catalonia and in defending and working for the right to decide on Catalans and Catalans, but we must do so in a broad, cross-cutting framework, which invites everyone to do so, that you seek more alliances beyond our own. That is why we have made a proposal to improve and extend the scope of this agreement. And now, let's go to agreement 4, that we believe it has improved considerably in respect of the initial proposal, but that it is also the one that most exemplifies the contradictions between what they say and what the Lords of Junts do for Catalonia. At the first part of the agreement, we are talking about the risk to European values of the states that are vulnerable to rights. Totally fine. And yes, it also passes to the Spanish State, which, in the mark of the law bites and the judicialization of politics, pursues and undertakes people to exercise freedom of expression and political freedom. Owners, rappers, members of vagaries committees, protesters, anarchist and political activists – but not only –, and that is why we must condemn, with the same strength and with the same intensity, the violation of the rights of all these people. And it goes to the Spanish State, it goes to other countries of the European Union and to friends of the European Union, and friends of certain sectors of the process. And yes, I'm talking about Israel, exactly. Israel, a state that carries seventy years violating the rights of the Palestinian people, occupying its territories, violating its right to self-determination and the sovereignty of the Palestinian people. Seventy years. What is more, the European Parliament of European values has made a resolution which does not do much to condemn the deaths of innocent Palestinians in the Return March, which began last March, and which we are already carrying a few deaths from then on. That, of course, this House is also about to make this debate, with a proposal that has been tabled for some time now, and that we hope that we can debate it quickly to position ourselves in respect. So, that's why it's been seventy years. The latest episodes of repression and violence began on March 30, and on April 19, Mr Puigdemont tweeted in English: "Congratulations to Israel on the 70th anniversary of your independence. Your struggle against adversity and your experience of sacrifice has won our respect for Catalonia. This, the president, the candidate for the presidency of Junts for Catalonia. I do not know what European values and principles we are talking about, but there is no respect for all the people of Catalonia for this issue, as at least not mine, so not in my name. [[Greetings.]] And now we're moving to the second part of the deal – and I'm going to have to go fast – and that's the refugee issue. We believe that in this point it is essential to denounce the inaction, incompetence, and incapacity and irresponsibility of the states and European institutions in the attention to the drama of refugees fleeing the conflict. But we also believe that we need to move from words to facts, and that Catalonia has a lot to do. Who follows there are general directors and general secretaries, such as Mr. Oriol Amorós, who have the competence to do so. That there is now a crowd of immigrants in Barcelona, of refugees who are seeking rights; what answer is being given? How can we not ask the government, and if we do not answer them, we will do them here: what resources is the generality putting to care for people seeking refuge in Catalonia? Because the year 2015 there were six-cents_euros in the presupposition. The year 2017, yes, is a state plan, a national plan of struggle, of support to refugees, but how much money have they put in it? What happened? We need to move from words to facts. So, yes, we're voting for it. And ladies and gentlemen of Junts for Catalonia, they do demand that they pass from words to facts, from declarations of values and principles to facts. Yes, we're asking them again, please, they're doing government now. Convert all these values and principles into assumptions, regulations, measures, that give response to refugees...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.59.0	You're out of here, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.60.0	...to the families of guaranteed income and to the victims of domestic violence. They do government and, while, please, with people still in charge, they do things. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.61.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. Next, for the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Forward Units, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.62.0	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. You are actually presenting a motion for a resolution which has been disconcerting, because they are talking about an idea of Europe which is, in any case, its own, which is really far from reality, too, right? Because it is true that, in effect, not so much Europe but the European Union is a community of values, but they are also governments, the policies from which they often have these values. But he said that in any case we understand that they use this proposal, and in this case Europe, as a pretext to defend their independent argumentator. Because, of course, in this case they have translated into us an idea of an idyllic Europe, a Catalonia fully intertwined with the European Union, on the side, yes, of a repressive Spain, isn't it? And of course, this doesn't just contrast with reality, it contrasts with quite recent statements by the President, precisely, Puigdemont, who said that Europe was a club of decadent countries, precisely because there was no one who recognized the unilateral declaration of independence. And that side... where, for example, it was also proposed to vote... that the Catalans could vote on a European Union exit. Europe, therefore, is being used as a result of independence. And mention in this proposition values such as freedom, such as democracy, such as justice, and also some democratic principles. But, of course, don't forget one very important one, the rule of law, the state of law, and in this case, this one also has to respect itself, like many others, right? And here, you know you didn't respect the state of law. The unilateral declaration of independence without a social support, violating not only the Constitution but the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, norms of which we have endowed ourselves among all, therefore, is not precisely respecting the state of law, you did not do so and therefore did not respect the principles of a political community as the European Union can be. They didn't do it in Europe, you know. And they tell us that the values don't have borders, that they're fine, but here they want to plant one. And then, it's true that it's a proposal that sweeps up a lot of things, some that we could actually share, we share. For example, the need for refugees, the compliment of international commitments in the areas of relocation, resettlement of refugees, or even the promotion and defence of multilingualism, right? And even if we talk about the recognition of català in Europe, I will tell you with complete peace that no one has done more than the Catalan socialists for this recognition, and I can speak from Alexander Cirici to Josep Borrell, passing through Josep Verde, by Lluis María de Puig, by Josep Raventós..., sorry, by Xavier Robert Raventós, by Pasqual Maragall, obviously by President Montilla, among many and many others, right? But I said that they rule out these causes, that they are shared, with causes that you say to 'the cause of Catalonia'. And of course, in Catalonia there are certainly so many causes as to cause their citizens, but in any case, if they speak of their cause, they also say the truth; do not say that their cause is freedom or democracy: their cause has been and is independence. And if not, we wouldn't be here at these moments, because I'm paid at the last plenary of the last legislature, when they precisely made the unilateral declaration of independence. It's that that's the origin of all the problems and many things that don't please anyone, and that don't please us either. Government members in prison, people... the interventions of the institutions, and that said we don't like them, right? But that was neither an example of democracy nor of respect for the freedoms of the majority of citizens of this country. And, well, in these pages, you make some expressions that concern us, don't you? , that even if they could say extreme right forces – we're not saying it, but we say it could be that way, right? "Protecting and invigorating identity, that our events will bring us to its European soul in an indestructible way. The whole movement of Pau and Treva, of the 11th century, passed. Clearly, man, Europeans won't win us, but honestly, we would say that I watch how they use some expressions, wouldn't we? And so is his manipulation. And I don't know if, as they say, we are not the children of Shakespeare, Goethe, Erasmus, Germans of Tolstoy and Havel, but I am sure that, at least, we can say that we are the children and daughters of many others, surely also more clean, and I can speak of Cervantes or others not so illustrious but not less worthy, of whom we would surely also be the children and girls. But in any case, Europe and the European Union, so there are many things. As I say, it's a community of values and politics, but it's also, unfortunately, governments that give asylum to refugees, they're extreme right-wing movements, very important in many countries, isn't it? : Hungary, Austria, Poland, Netherlands, France, Denmark and many other countries, no? With clearly anti-immigration tics, Europhobs, who are more ultra-nationalists, nostalgic of a better past. Europe is also these populisms, this bitter ultranationalism, which is only for the interests of some countries. It has been, and you have mentioned it, so it has been war, it has been war in the Balkans, and they are also economic institutions and moneys that have received "austericide" economic receptions to many countries in the south. And here, let me tell you that you have shared them, because they speak in this resolution of the welfare state as a great pillar of cohesion, which I can share, but I also want to remember Arthur but when he came from, here they were bringing pit, "because we are going to be gross from the Administration. He was the pioneer in the retail in Spain and, of course, I looked if they got rough that we almost stayed in the skin and the bone, and in many cases and in many areas we still haven't recovered. And we, indeed, aspire to another Europe. A Europe that is not a club of states, as it is now, that you curiously criticize but what you want is to become the own partner of this club. We aspire to a federal Europe, a Europe that is not as intergovernmental as it is now. A union that is not only economic and monetary, or even banking, but also social. That in the same way that you tell us or limit us – we cannot exceed 3_percent of the deficit –, you also tell us and require the government of the states that you invest, why not? , a 6_per_cent in education or who agreed to a European minimum wage. This is also the Europe we want, isn't it? The real Europe of the people, of their cities, of the regions, the next Europe, that Pascual Maragall, therefore, drew year 99. A Europe that prioritizes, that somehow recovers its founding values. But by retrieving the thread of the proposal, you speak of this ideal of Europe, but again always use it and manipulate it to the logic of independence. First, in favour of a platform, the platform that they say in « Diàleg União Europea - Catalunya, that in reality what they are looking for is not the dialog, is the mediation and recognition of independence. Platform which, of course, has only promoted three of the new Catalan MEPs, and which in total has been supported by one of the 751 MEPs. They also try to associate Europe with republican hope, with a new country. Literally they say, "Hello Europe, that is to say, new rhetoric, new use of independence rhetoric. And above all, this is a classic, against Spain, isn't it? You denounce the violation of freedoms of the same state of law which, as you said, you did not respect, but insist on denouncing in a prominent way Spain, when, in reality, you would agree with it or not, but it is the second country with less convictions of the European Court of Human Rights. And that, so, that's it. And look, we, like socialists, are the first to have since many years defended and called for reforms in depth to Spain, not only of the Constitution, to address, among comets, the territorial problem, but also to deepen and strengthen social rights, freedoms that, effectively, can be much better and perfectable, right? Moreover, we understand that this can serve to strengthen the legitimacy of institutions. But it's hard for us to call Europe just to convey an image, a false image of a repressive Spain, isn't it? A Spanish of low democratic quality that, in any case, if the tea lowers, the tea as low as it can be Catalonia. And we encourage them, effectively, to denounce all violations of rights and freedoms, and we add to all these violations, even though they are also within our circle, but we ask them, above all, to act in consequence. About the gathering of refugees. Here we fully share the criticism, we have done so on numerous occasions denouncing the failure on the part of the Spanish Government, therefore, of the commitments it had made in the matter of relocation, resettlement of refugees. But also, and this must not have pleased them so much, because here they did not accept a message from the Socialist Group and Unites for Progress, in which we urged the Government of the Generality to enable the places and also the resources necessary for the gathering of refugees, placing special emphasis on the child protection system, especially for unaccompanied minors, who come from relocation and resettlement. Here, too, they use their skills, because some have them. And you know as well as we do that the government of the generality, therefore, has not been up here either. And, in short, for a time, Europe, effectively, was a synonym of freedom, modernity, rights, because we lived in a dictatorship – and that is so – and today, effectively, therefore, we live, by luck, in democracy, right? In the wake of a state of law, clearly perfectable, with governments both in Catalonia and in Spain that do not like us, as a non-progressive sign, and, therefore, we would like to change them precisely to lie down to European standards of well-being. But, in any case, what we want to say: that we do not use Europe to make more manipulations, more demagogic, to take possession of heritage that is common. So, first the people of Catalonia... Europe can't be the cause of independence either, can it? And for all this, therefore, we will vote in favour of Point 3, which is the point that is related to the defense of recognition, the promotion of all languages as shared heritage and promotion of multilingualism; in favour also of Point 5, in the line of deepening, therefore, the democratic deepening, right? , community institutions, European social rights. Now, we will vote against point 2, we are talking directly about the aspirations of a new country. What exactly does it mean that the cause of Catalonia can contribute to the regeneration of the European Union? What causes it? And who do they want to fool by saying that the democratic experiment has irradiated Catalan society in the last few days? But if they've violated their rights here. We'll vote against this point. And, finally, we will abstain from point 1 and point 4, we ask for Europe, so dialog, mediation and understanding; it seems good to me, even though they know that mediation can only be formal when both sides accept it. And, at point 4, governments were denounced that with any of their actions they were violating freedoms that put democracy and the rule of law at risk, that they were violating rights, of course, we would not oppose it, but we were also more pleased with the self-requirement of the Government of the Generality's compromise in the matter of colliding, according to its competences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.63.0	You're out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.64.0	It's here. All right. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.65.0	Thank you, Mrs. Niubó. Then, in the name of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word the deputy Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.66.0	Thank you, President. Well, as long as we're talking about a motion for a resolution on the international arena, I want to start with a solid embrace and with all our support for Councillor Romeva, our Foreign Councillor, today the hostage of the Spanish State in the prison of Extremera. Go for him, too, this debate and our solidarity, and let's face it, for the rest of the people. [[applause]] Businesses or exile. Well, our group has tabled a substitutability point 1 and 2 of this motion for a resolution that have not finally been negotiated and have not been incorporated into the final text that is being put to the vote today. And I will read literally some of the paragraphs in our proposal. "The Parliament of Catalonia is firm in the motions 130/XI and 84/XI, approved in the proposed legislature, and urges the Government of the Generality, in the current scene of the deep crisis of the European Union and the new framework of relations between Catalonia, the Spanish State and the European Union resulting from the referendum of '1 October and the repression of the Spanish State on independence, to assume and apply them in their integrity, and especially for what it does to Europe in that it makes reference to actively defending the individual and collective freedoms and the rights of peoples, in particular self-determination, and social justice, in the framework established for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And he goes on to say: "As with the Catalan Parliament's statement that the celebration of the process constitutes the Catalan Republic, it will have to be possible to open a great national and democratic debate on the model of external relations, which will have to be decided by means of democratic and participatory institutions and procedures. This model of external relations will have to include in particular a visit to Europe and to the relationship that the Catalan people want to have with the European Union from the exercise of their right to decide and to the benefit of their social and national sovereignties. We wanted to highlight this text because it is not only parágraf per parágrafe, literally, a text that was approved in the proposed legislature, but also because it was approved with the support of Junts per el Si, of the Constituent CUP - Creed and of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, at that time. Well, this text today cannot be part of this motion for a resolution; the proposed group has not accepted it. But, in addition, we would like to point out that, at the Bureau, at the proposed Bureau, the electorate warned us that the content of this item could contravene 155 and was potentially unconstitutional. What was approved in the proposed legislature with a broad consensus seems that today we can no longer approve it and, moreover, we are under the warning of unconstitutionality. Our concern cannot be greater; 155 is clear that it is not only a limitation to the exercise of the execution, but it is also a restrictive _framework of the democratic freedoms of this Parliament and of the freedom of expression and political freedoms in this Parliament which seems that Juntes per Catalunya is willing to comply, which concerns us enormously. Well, for what it does to our voting position, say that in the motivating statement of the motion for a resolution man refers to some European values and principles as well as to a European Union project that has never been consolidated either in the Union or in its member states; values and principles that, on the other hand, have excluded other cultural references with great concern to Europe such as those of socialist inspiration or those of liberationary inspiration, in a clearly capitalist and liberal hegemony and with clear neoliberal and neo-feixist propensities, more than their secular statism contrary to the recognition of the rights of nations without state. The result is visible: the European Union is today a failed and dominated project for the regression of democratic, civil, political and social rights, rather than exercising an irrelevant or pathetic role in most international conflicts. The motion for a resolution therefore calls for a Europe and a European Union that has never existed, which have never fully achieved the defence and application of its values and foundations more inspired by humanism; a European Union which, until now, has not wanted to defend basic democratic rights in Catalonia or to confront the repressive and anti-democratic drift of the Spanish State. The European Union has also failed Catalonia. Therefore, defend a new European project, Euro-Mediterranean in our case, inspired by the reference of Greece, in the one of October 1 in Catalonia, in the current social mobilizations in France, in solidarity with immigrants and refugees, in the feminist enclave of March 8th and in many other movements that fight for a new Europe of the people and at the service of the working class. And I'm done, President. And in the new scene derived from '1 October and 27 October and the repression of the State, we need to make good that Parliament, illegitimately dissolved for the Spanish State, approved in this sense; also what was approved in the proposed legislature. This is also a restorative policy. We share, also, the views of points 3 and 4, and therefore we will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.67.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. It is the return, now, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.68.0	Well, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today I address you for the first time in this Faristol, and I want to do, in the first place, to share – I suppose with the rest of Parliament's groups – the pride of being part of a culture like Catalan culture, that while being a relatively minority culture has given a good number of prohoms to universal culture. Some of them quote you in the motius presentation of the motion for a resolution, like now Ramon Llull, Ausiàs March, Mercè Rodoreda, Salvador Espriu. I would quote some others, too, as now the poets Carles Riba, Joan Maragall, Joan Vinyoli. There are many more: the same Josep Pla, Agustí Calvet, Gaziel. Or some other, more current, with Juan Marsé the Eduardo Mendoza. There are not many, there are not many more; all these have won the right to be among the most prominent prohoms of Catalan culture. But anyway, it is a pride for me to be able to share with all of you this relevance to a culture that, I insist, while being a minority, has a great international abst. So much for this proposal for a resolution of yours is strictly to claim and affirm the importance of Catalan culture in the framework of the European Union, in the framework of universal culture, and the importance that we have enjoyed in the long term of European construction, which I believe is a value that we must preserve and we must put into value. That no one doubts that we would be happy to reach agreement in this sense and to continue to hold this position, but unfortunately it is not so. I detect in this motion for a resolution the will to diminish another characteristic value, another characteristic principle of Catalanity, which is participation in the Spanish collection project; a project in which Catalans have been decisive, decisive, we have had a compromise and a contribution that has been absolutely instrumental in the formation of modern Spain, especially in periods such as the period of constitutional Spain, which begins with the Corts de Cadis of 1812, in which the first president of the Courts was Ramon Llàtzer de Dou, a català who made a clear and decided bet for the participation of Catalonia in the conjunct of Spain; deputies like Antoni de Capmany, who can also consider it a great historian and, in fact, a great constitutional institution. And I think these men should have a privileged place in the collective consciousness of Catalans. The capdavall are people who have also made up the history of Catalonia. And, on the other hand, I detect a certain willingness on the part of the groups..., of the proposing group and of the rest of the separatist groups to, let's say, deny these authors for their unequivocal compromise with the project collection, with the Spanish project collection. I believe that nationalism is about patrimonializing catalanity to make it, and they do everything possible to condemn to ostracism those authors who have made a clear and obvious compromise in the formation of Spain. And this does not make them Catalan, on the contrary, also forms part of our culture, of our catalanity. In fact, this proverbial propensity of nationalism to attempt to capitalize on catalanity became clear yesterday when a deputy of Junts for Catalonia said, literally, that those we like to criticize TV3 did not do so because we do not like TV3, but simply because we do not like Catalonia. No more or less. I'm the one who'd ask you... [[Greetings.]] What I would ask this honourable Member, with all due respect, is: who did you think it was to tell me and a million Catalans, or more yet, that we don't esteem our land, that we don't feel Catalans? [[applause]] What are less Catalans than you? Or is it perhaps he thinks that only Catalonia can be regarded as speaking ill of Spain and its culture, as he did the other day, without going any further, when President Puigdemont retweeted a tweet in which he was told, was he directly cataloguing the Spanish culture of violence? The President of the Generality retweeted a tweet saying that Spanish culture is a violent culture by definition. I believe that this is not precisely the way to bring back Catalan society or the way to try to reconcile Catalans, or to reconcile Catalans, for the effects that this whole process has had on us these years. No, gentlemen of Junts for Catalonia, hating Spain and undermining its culture does not make them more Catalan, but simply is an exhibition of more regressive supremacyism. [[Greetings.]] I have spoken of Llàtzer de Dou and d'Antoni de Capmany, but we could talk about some more current Catalans, such as Jordi Solé Tura and Miquel Roca, two of the seven pairs of the Constitution, of the current Spanish Constitution ; two of seven, are not bad people for a supposed birth that oppresses Catalonia, for a supposed project that what they claim is to anorrelate catalanity, that what they claim is to leave behind the Catalans and that we can not have anything to say and that we are silent and mute and to gag, as some like to say. Well, the nationalists continue to speak of this reality in which supposedly the Catalans have been secularly persecuted for the rest of the Spaniards, whom Catalonia saw oppressed by Spain. For them it is very easy to determine two homogeneous blocks, Catalonia and Spain, which are fatally sentenced to divorce. I believe that this is really only in his imagination, because, fortunately, most Catalans do not follow him and are not willing to break ties of all kinds – sentimental, cultural, historical and economic – that unite us with the rest of our Spanish compatriots. However, it is not surprising that separatist parties defending a project based on insolidarity and rupture now intend to give lessons of Europeanism, since the European Union is based precisely on solidarity, coexistence, human integration and the notion of citizenship over national or metaphysical abstractions. It is only possible to remember slogans such as "Spain robs us or the subsidized Spain that lives at the cost of productive Catalonia, to illustrate the deeply backward and contrary to the European values that the separatist parties spend. Europe needed precisely to fight against nationalism, to overcome the identity confrontation it divides, supremacism and insolidarity. The French President François Mitterrand did not say, in one of his most acclaimed speeches, that nationalism is war, because nationalism always sets reality in dramatic terms, of conflict, of hardship, of confrontation, of supposed external enemy and of interior. And that is exactly what separatist parties do, which now intend to give us lessons of Europeanism, when their project is the antithesis of the European project. The European project is a project of integration, of union, as its same name indicates, while the separatist project which they claim is to separate, divide the citizens. It is true that in its proposal, Juntes for Catalonia does not serve, nor does it use the name of the European integration organization at the moment for anonymity, par excellence, which is the European Union, speak of Europe in abstract terms, but avoid talking about the EU. And it is understandable that nationalists have a problem with the European Union, because they defend everything against what the Union proposes: they defend separation against union, segregation against integration, identity against citizenship. The idea of citizenship is our great conquest, that of the Europeans in conjunction, and our rights of citizenship are precisely what you intended to overthrow us when you tried to repeal, from a revolt, the State and the Constitution on the 6th and 7th of September of the past year. [[Greetings.]] It is true that since the beginning of the separatist process its leaders have not managed to meet with any international president, no one has rejected them, brought by some leader of the extreme Flemish right or the founder of Alternative for Germany, who visited Puigdemont in prison. And look what they have spent, from money from all Catalans, on their campaign of international propaganda to undermine Spanish democracy, with a descriptionable success, is true. The European Union is – let us know – a right-wing community, and it turns out that one of the main divisions of the separatist process has been the least of the right-wing state, the courts and the courts, and the compliment of the law, as guarantor of our rights and freedoms. In any case, it is normal that Europe has donated the scale to separatist aspirations. What interest can the European Union have in giving cabuda in its own if a project that is based on the claim that Catalans disengage from our commitment to solidarity with the rest of the Spanish citizens? The same claim to separate from the rest of Spain and to disagree with the rest of Spain morally and politically disqualifies the separatist leaders before Europe. That is why no one in Europe wants to know anything about the separatist cause. They speak of European values, but with their rupturistic fixation separatists bring the values of solidarity, coexistence and cosmopolitanism in which the European Union is founded. In fact, his commitment to European values does not seem to be very substantial; it is only necessary to remember what Mrs Niubó said a few months ago, said in an interview in an international media conference the President Puigdemont, who literally said that the Catalans should rethink our continuity with the European Union, who qualified as the « Club of decadent, obsolescent countries, to which they manage a few, plus, much linked to economic interests every time more questionable. Puigdemont's words are the fifth essence of populism, which is presented as a reality that exists only in his imagination. Junts' proposal for Catalonia speaks of Barcelona as a cosmopolitan and avant-garde city, and, indeed, Barcelona is a cosmopolitan and avant-garde city, but whenever I listen to these statements I remember, for example, what happened with the European Medicines Agency, which did not come to Barcelona, even though it was the preferred one for the agency's workers, precisely for the political instability resulting from the sovereignist process. Deia Agustí Calvet, Gaziel, that separatism is able for itself only to provoke an episodic catastrophe, and in this they are. Catalans don't deserve that much nonsense. Of course, they say that Europe is our main market, where our businesses most place their products. But forget a little detail, which is that this is precisely thanks to trading our businesses with the rest of Spain. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of Convergence, this is thanks to what you call'subsidized Spain', 'the Spain that spoils us, to purchase another term of its taste. 40_percent of sales by Catalan companies will end in the rest of Spain; another 40_percent, in the rest of Europe. Let's not forget the importance our people have in connecting with the rest of the Spaniards when we set up certain things. For example, Catalan companies export...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.69.0	Mr. Martin...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.70.0	I'm done. I'm sorry, Mr. President. Catalan companies export to the United States as much as to Cantàbria. Finally, I just want to recall a phrase, since we are today defending and claiming Catalan culture, a phrase from another Catalan, a Catalan and Spanish philosopher, José Ferrater Mora, who gave in his work The forms of Catalan life..., making some reflections that would be useful to have very present, describe these forms of life and highlight four: continuity, seny, irony and measure, which is clearly not the values that have characterized the performance of the leaders of the process. And with this I have just said that we cannot support Junts' motion for a resolution for Catalonia, so that we would like all folds to embrace Catalan culture without necessarily needing the culture of the rest of Spain. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.71.0	Thank you, Mr. Martin. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mrs. Eva Baró's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.72.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Bureau, Members of the House, Members of the House, well, we know that. As you know, we are here today debating a motion for a resolution on adherence to European principles and values. And with the color in hand – with the color in hand – I wonder if all of us – all of us – are well aware of what we are talking about and what we are talking about and, above all, what they represent and what they involve. In case, I make a short review, very basic. Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union states that this is based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law – the rule of law. Remember, from the point of separation of powers? That we're all the same? [[Widow's remorse.]] Please. Thank you – thank you. Why are we all the same before the law? What about the right sovereign in the village? When you read them, they're an instrument for people's servants and not the other way around, huh? The treaty also recognizes other values; in concrete terms, respect for human rights and the rights of minorities. It follows that these values are common to the member states in a society characterized by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between men and women. I don't know about you – I don't know about you – but it's hard for me to read all this out of consciousness and not feel a touch of emotion, and even more so when I think about everything that we're living and painting in Catalonia. Because these principles and these values are the essential sediment for any single, solid and ethical political project, the European, but not just the European. That's right, whenever this political project has the real end of the better of people's lives. If it has other purposes, maybe it doesn't. So, mirin, the Catalan society, which we represent all folds, is a deeply democratic society, dialogue, pacifist, welcoming, solidary. We represent a town that has suffered a lot and, as it has suffered, can empathize. It is a bilingual society, which protects linguistic diversity as the treasure that it is. Believe in progress, innovation, prosperity and just distribution of wealth. A people who work for equality between men and women, who believe in sexual freedom, who respect all forms of esteem, living and living, whenever they do not coerce freedom and alien rights. It's a society that wants people free of thought and hope. Only such a society is able to mobilize in a massive and peaceful way to say no to war, to explain that voting – voting – is democracy, to remember that ‘the laugh is life, to ask that we want to gather, to cry out that we do not have for, to demand freedom from prisoners and political pressure and to cry out loudly that it is not. I don't know, it doesn't seem extraordinary to you, does it? It doesn't look extraordinary, does it? It doesn't seem extraordinary to them. Maybe that's the problem, that they want to represent a town that doesn't seem extraordinary to them. (Whispering) And, look, the principles and values underlying all these demands emanate..., escort, emanate from republicanism – emanate from republicanism – and intertwine intimately with the European founding values of which he was speaking. I, of course – of course – ask myself: "But who can not share these principles and values? Can a public server or a representative of the people not always defend them as one of the most pre-emptive benefits to protect? Why, you know? , well understood and well respected, these values reverse the construction of a better world. [[Widow's remorse.]] I don't see the grace, I don't see the grace, I don't see the grace, I don't see the grace, I don't see the grace, I don't see the grace, I don't see the grace. Therefore, from the Republic Group, it is clear that we adhere to these principles and these founding values. Now, one thing is these principles and these values that I am talking about, and the other, very different, the institutional European Union, the present one. That is why we have introduced the corresponding items, with which we feel very comfortable, and we say that we will join and vote in favour of the proposal. At present, the hopeful project that the European Union represented for many people and for many European people has proved to be a painfully unrecognizable project. It seems a little questionable that there are many reasons for drawing. There are many things that have been going on for the past 15 years that have been undermining, have been weakening the legitimacy and solidity of the European project. I'll mention just three of them. The euro-market inn that has not been able to be the central and complete monetary and economic space. Or a hurried incorporation and people harmonized with states members from the ancient Soviet bloc, which has no guarantees and generates problems of cohesion and democratic quality. Or, the third example, the 2007 financial crisis in the United States, which became European and global and which, according to conservative liberal hegemony in the service of the great economic powers, generated a severe social crisis, a hard setback in social protection systems, an acceleration in the concentration of wealth, an increase in inequalities, etc. And, of course, all this has had political consequences and economic consequences: rescues, rescues financed from countries in southern Europe, with special gravity in the case of Greece; a Brexit which shows that something does not work when one of the great Member States decides, by popular will, to leave the European Union and to recover old alliances, and above all – above all – the crisis of refugees, which involved the closure of borders and inhuman agreements of the European Union with border countries because they exercise border control and control, and words of containment in order to avoid the entry of men and women, of children, of innocent families fleeing from war, fleeing from our own family, from our desire, from all our evils to our very experiences, from the very experiences of the poor to the very experiences of the poor, from the very experiences of the poor to the very experiences of the poor. What a wasteful and most unfortunate role the Spanish State has made and the parties that are wretchedly silent before so much injustice, frantically incompleting the share of the crowd that surrounded them. And, of course, where are we now? - What's up? So in a European Union surely large mass, weak institutionally and economically mass, unequal mass, filled with contradictions; in a European Union that includes states with regimes every time more uncomplicatedly authoritarian, nationalist and xenophobic, such as Poland or Hungary; in a European Union that is a club of states that fan state corporatism, directed by technocrats and cynics that represent the oldest, oldest, most conservative policy, the one that ages for capital and its own interests, while you want to create a galloping Euroscepticism. Let me remind you, of course, that who is now leading the European Union is the big coalition, huh? , the great coalition, which is part of the popular and socialist groups, with the support of the liberals. They are responsible for economic policy, detail and austerity, and they are perfectly responsible for the current context of the European Union. At the heart of this whole landscape, it is very difficult to recognise the essence and the foundational experience with which the European Union has been born, because there is a huge – huge gap between Europe that was our doing, the Europe that we saw, and Europe where we are now. And what is it – and what is it – is that I see the disappointing response of the European institutions to legitimate Catalan democratic demands and abuses and the repression of rights that the Spanish State practices in a systematic and organized manner. And then, of course, they see all this, why do we defend and believe that the European Union must continue to feel our project? Why, before this scener, instead of pulling the towel, do we demand more and better Europe? So, there's a lot of motivations and they're different, and they're all fish and I'll mention just three of them. First, because the institutional and legislative framework of the European Treaties offers us, despite the constant and deliberate incompliments of the Spanish State, a more open and more favourable regulatory framework for the interests of Catalan citizens. Because, being in the European Union, has allowed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.73.0	Madame Baró...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.74.0	...that the Catalan economy replaces the chronic dependence of the Spanish market, a key factor for our full emancipation. Or because the set of European regulations, which act in the field of political, personal, individual and collective fundamental rights, takes on a determining value...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.75.0	Mrs. Baro, I insist, time has run out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.76.0	In short, because their foundational values are still valid and they are still ours. Therefore, yes, European is our project, but precisely because of this we want more and we want better Europe. To achieve this, he goes on to denounce in a decisive manner every heaviness, every injury, every incompliment, every contradiction. Europe needs a review and the Catalan case has a lot to contribute to it. In a way, the Catalan case marks the path to a Europe that has been lost and, fortunately, far beyond the inflexible Europe...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.77.0	Time's up, Mrs. Baró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.78.0	... – now I'm finished –, inflexible, waterproof, of the states...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.79.0	It's been a while, it's hard for me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.80.0	I know, I know... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.81.0	It is the turn, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, and, on his behalf, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.82.0	Thank you very much, President. An interim decision by a German regional court has provoked two reactions in separatism. The first one, you have to recognize what, is that you have come up. They were losing twelve to zero, now they're losing twelve to one, but they think they're winning. You can apply that phrase of having more moral than the Alcoyano, and it is that, even in that, you are, to your regret, Spanish classic cut. [[Rialles.]] The second is that you feel that you are European again. Next week, then, you should know, you should know! They could come up with a decision, a news from Germany that they didn't like and would do like little children: "I don't join you anymore. [[Rialles.]] In fact, just three months ago, Puigdemont said we had to leave the European Union, but, well, they feel like they're European again. And to celebrate what, next week, we will see, but this, yes, you are presenting this motion for a resolution which, it must be said, is very well written. I used to tell you, in this legislature, you all look like poets and say very nice things: Catalans are Europeans. Indeed, the Catalans have made an extraordinary, first-class contribution to the arts and sciences in Europe, and that contribution perfectly links with the tradition of European humanism, of course it does. They even make a demand for plurilingualism that we celebrate, especially because, just two years ago, half of you signed a manifesto so that Catalan was the only official language in Catalonia, with which, then, the truth surprises conversion and we hope that this will continue. But here it is, here are the glories of the motion for a resolution, because the rest is an indisguised and very grave adulteration of the founding spirit of the European Union. The parents of Europe – Monnet, Schuman, De Gasperi, Adenauer, Spaak, four conservatives and a moderate social democrat; I like to remember this – the first thing they decide when they have to design the Union is that we have to overcome German romanticism, that idea according to which the nation defines it by identity, culture and language, and replace the one by the other much higher and that the law and citizenship is what defines the nation. To consolidate such a high idea, they have pragmatic instruments, the first is the European Coal and Steel Community. It is with what war was made, we are going to pool that, we avoid proliferation and we create, above all, between Germany and France, a climate of confidence that avoids wars. The second pragmatic instrument was the recovery of the spirit of peace in Westphalia. They place special emphasis on this, the founding fathers, that is, the indivisible character of the European nation-states. In fact, all but one that is no longer, that comes from another tradition, that is parliamentary sovereignty, that then they export to the Commonwealth, I mean the United Kingdom, that is no longer – they will know why; they are already repenting – the rest, all the members of the European Union are indivisible by definition. Are we European Catalans? Of course it is, but the European Union was not born to protect a project like yours, it was born precisely to defeat everything you represent. What was the ultimate idea of the founding fathers of Europe? The protection of individual rights from the so-called will of the people, that will of the people that, interpreted one day, and in some circumstances, allows the politician to jump the law. The law..., the parents of Europe turned Europe into the space of law, peace and coexistence. Law, peace and coexistence, inextricably united. Are we European Catalans? Of course, and to the best of honor, but the European Union was not born to protect a project like yours, the European Union was born to defeat everything you represent, in short, the European Union was born to defeat you. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.83.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Now, to position yourself... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, thank you. Now to position yourself on the elements, which are accepted and as the defined text remains, has the word Lord De Dalmases, for a time of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.84.0	Yes, very briefly. Leave, to Eva Baró, to give thanks for all, to you and to all your group; we have reached this agreement of these four points. Obviously, values such as freedom, equality, democracy and the right state, not the State pulling for the right, as counsel Turull said. So who can't share these values? Thank you to the Esquerra Group. To the Group of Catalonia in Comú We can, too, thank you very much for all and for how we discussed this PR, to enrich it, effectively. Some very brief mentions. President Puigdemont is President Puigdemont, he is not a candidate; no, do not buy according to five reports. If you read supremacism, if you didn't find feminism... this is about Simone Weil, Hannah Arendt, Mercè Rodoreda, Saskia Sassen, so, hard to say, I wouldn't be able to include them all. And as long as we want to work with the refugees. The best way is to establish us with the republic. Now, don't... try not to always focus on us when we're talking about no government, we're the ones that we've tried to make more government and see that there's someone in the other band who doesn't want to make it. At the CUP..., the PR that we presented was ours and you presented a new PR and, please, stop telling us that it does them so that we don't know how to disobey 155 or the Constitution, look at the Junts list for Catalonia, look who's here, who's not here, who's in exile and who's in prison and then, if they want, give us lessons of disobedience and determination, but don't tell us that we're not able to disobey. To the PSC, to Esther Niubó..., we..., it's a past screen, I forgive, to the CUP, obviously we didn't accept it for that, because they make a new PR..., we talk about respecting the State. Well, it's a past page for us. All the way, you talking about respecting the Statute, talking to your people at the PSOE, who seemed to not know that very well. The relationship we have had in this PR has been distant and cold, so, as it cannot be otherwise, we have 155, exiles, and we hold them to separate us. Anyway, I really appreciate it, too. In Ciutadans, look, we won't make a competition to estimate or not. I proposed a pact to you, I proposed a pact to you, and we would assume it by all the deputies of Juntes for Catalonia. If anyone of you is ever persecuted for what he thinks, for what he says or for what he does, we will be at his side. Will they be at our side, you? [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.85.0	Lord of Dalmatias...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.86.0	I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.87.0	Time's running out, time's running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.88.0	I'm done. The lords of the PP..., it sounded to me about: "They have UN, we have two... I don't know what we can talk about, from this apriorism. Democracy, you know, has no more limits than popular sovereignty. This is it, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.89.0	Thank you, Mr De Dalmases. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.90.0	Thank you, President; for asking for a separate vote. For a band, 1 and 4, they can... well, no, see, 1 and 4 and 3 and 5... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm not saying well, I'm not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.91.0	1 and 4 jointly and 3 and 5 jointly. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.92.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.93.0	Yeah? All right. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.94.0	He voted separately only from the 3, because he's not here with the 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.95.0	All right, so we'd do the '1 and the '4' vote, the '3' vote separately, the '5' vote separately, and that's number two. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. So let's start with the vote... [[Josep Riera i Font asks to speak.]] Forgive me, forgive me; I hadn't seen them, Mr. Riera...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.96.0	Thank you, President. It's for a separate vote, too, from points 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.97.0	You see, we'd vote separately for all the points, and I think we'd make more of it, huh? All right, let's start the vote with the first point of this motion for a resolution. First point. The vote begins. This was approved by 74 votes to 44, with 16 abstentions. We would now vote on point number two. The vote begins. That was approved by 74 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. This was approved by 98 votes to 36, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on a quarter of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This was approved by 77 votes to 40, with 16 abstentions. And we will now vote on the fifth and second points of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This point was approved by 90 votes to 44, with no abstentions. There is no more point in voting on this motion for a resolution... yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.98.0	Yes, although we had asked for a separate vote from the third point, we wrongly voted that not at all points, when the third point we had to vote that yes and it was to make clear my mistake to indicate the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.99.0	All right, stay clear, then. [[Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia in defense of the integrity of women]] [[401-00002/12]] All right, we'll move to the next point of the order of the day. Before, however, as you know, a declaration was signed by the Parliament of Catalonia in defence of the dignity of women. If it seems to you, we'd read that statement now. It would be the fourth secretary, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.100.0	The feeling that the Provincial Audience of Navarre made public, on the 26th of April, in relation to the multiple rape that was produced in Pamplona in 2016, is ignominious. Sentence reinforces the belief that women are always complicit and, in the background, responsible for the violence they suffer. He kept the maximum that, if a woman does not object with firmness and obvious resistance to the eyes of men before an act of male violence, she will always be suspected of having consented, induced or provoked aggression. And it requires women to believe the lack of consent, as if that were a presumption. The sentence does not fit the gravity of the violation of a young man's division years by five men between twenty-four and twenty-seven years, two of them trained for the use of force, and incorporates denigrating elements of a particular vote that lacks the state of vulnerability of the young woman and offends the sensibility of any one. For all this, the Parliament of Catalonia expresses its deep discomfort and rejects the pact for the victim on the part of one of the institutions that man hopes to learn, protection and justice. The Catalonian Parliament denounces that these facts are propitious to a patriarchal system and that this feeling, which is absolutely shameful, helps to maintain the stigmatization of the women and legitimize the violence against them. The Catalonian Parliament is deeply outraged by this feeling which has provoked a widespread revulsion in the citizenry, because it causes a double victimization, since, in the band of being a tempt against its integrity, it has to endure the lack of protection of the judicial system. The Parliament of Catalonia expresses the commitment in the feminist struggle, to change these structures still present in our society, which perpetuate inequality and disrespect towards women in full 21st century. The Parliament of Catalonia considers training necessary and essential in the perspective of the judicial system. To this end, an in-depth and targeted programme should be promoted to professionals in the judicial field, on male and sexual violence and abuse. Palau del Parlament, May 4, 2018. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.101.0	Thank you. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 13/2008, the Presidency of the Generality and the Government]] [[202-00002/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The next item on the agenda is the single reading of the Law Amendment Bill 13/2008, the Presidency of the Generality and the Government. In accordance with Rule 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia called for the processing of this legislative initiative in one reading and the Bureau, escorted by the Board of Spokespersons, proposed to the Plenary the application of this procedure in one reading for this processing, following the establishment of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure. First place... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] One moment, Mr. Carrizosa. First of all, there is a parliamentary group..., that is to say, there is a first turn for the parliamentary groups to set up their intervention in relation to the position respecting the single reading, for a space of three minutes, huh? , which would be by order, the usual order. Therefore, the intervention of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans would begin and we would end up for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. So let's start this intervention. Have three minutes, Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.102.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand, then, that we have ten more minutes from the Faristol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.103.0	Yes, then they will... the structure of the debate is: three minutes to position itself to respect the single reading and, then, respect the substance of the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.104.0	Give me a minute, will you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.105.0	Give me more minutes, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.106.0	All right, thank you. Very briefly: you just have to take the advice of the Board of Guarantees Statutàries to know that, with this that is going to be done today, we return to the 6th and 7th of September in the Parliament of Catalonia. We are back to the darkest episodes of this Parliament since the restoration of democracy. We see again how a parliamentary majority, which does not even have a majority vote on the street, tries again to go beyond the rights of the majority of the citizens represented in the opposition's deputies. The single reading format is thought of in some regulations for simple laws, with great consensus and whose subject matter does not affect, for example, the development of the Statute of autonomy or, of course, which does not affect higher standards. None of these requirements are met today – none of these requirements are met today. What's worse is that you're demeaning Parliament knowing it's not going to do any good. You bring this law here, the Puigdemont law, the law passing the whole roller over the Parliament of Catalonia, passing over the opposition, passing over the majority of Catalans who do not vote for you. And they do it knowing Puigdemont isn't going to be president. I ask you, please, to stop using Parliament as if it were the seat of the Republican Left or the seat of the Puigdemont list. This law, of course, violates the basic principles of parliamentarianism, violates the Rules of Parliament, violates the Statute of autonomy, violates the Spanish Constitution. And we don't tell them, the evil Constitutional Court doesn't tell them, the Council of State Guarantees tells them by unanimity, ladies and gentlemen – by unanimity. Even those you put to your finger on the Status Guarantee Board are telling you that this is barbarity. It is a demolishing – demolishing – report; read it, because what I insist most degrades the Parliament of Catalonia is not that you pass the roller again, it is that you are doing it knowing that this is a farce, that Puigdemont is not going to be president again. Why do they continue to denigrate the image of Parliament and that parliamentary majority that they have not used to invest someone president meeting the requirements? What are they using it for? To pass the roller again through the opposition. Did they not have enough with September 6 and 7? Do you want to go back to the same mistakes? I ask you, please, to stop putting Catalonia and this Parliament in a situation that is absolutely outside of democracy. I ask you, moreover, not only as a winner of the elections, not only as president of the parliamentary group, I ask you as a citizen of Catalonia. Use your parliamentary majority – which I consider unfair by the Electoral Law, but they have it – use the parliamentary majority for whatever they want, but not to trample on the rights of the parliamentary opposition. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.107.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. It is now the return of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.108.0	It is obvious that this is a Parliament and you are Members of Parliament. Basically it's to do two functions, which are to approve laws and invest a president. And until today it seems that this is not accepted, and it seems that we have been led by democracy. We, our Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, believe very much in the unique reading process to approve these two articles of the Law of the Presidency. I remember that yesterday five articles were modified in a law and there was no problem because there was a single reading procedure. There are many examples and precedents of the use of this process for this Parliament and at different times and occasions. Moreover, the same Constitutional Court upheld, contrary to an unfavourable opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia allowing for the urgent procedure. Therefore, there are endorsements of the Constitutional Court. Moreover, the same opinion of the Council of Statutory Guarantees that they have made for this law admits – admits – that this opinion..., the Council of Guarantees applies a more restrictive criterion than the Constitutional Court. Actually, they're literally saying it. They say: "The same Constitutional Court has shown itself to be more flexible in accepting the type of materials that can be processed for this unique reading mechanism. Therefore, if the case is given and someone believes that this law must go to the Constitutional Court, it is foreseeable, as has happened with many laws, that the Constitutional Court will disauthorize the Council of State Guarantees. In fact, the same case law of the Constitutional Court has stated that political consensus or the import of a law is a fact entirely alien to whether or not it can be dealt with for a single reading. This month, we will give you examples of a large number of laws that have been processed for one reading, and that the Constitutional Court has always done an extensive interpretation, until it has been understood that no material has been vetoed for this procedure. The list is huge, but I will only give you three examples: the sacrosanct Spanish Constitution, modified in its article 135 for a single reading; or the same law regulating the reform of the Organic Law of the same Constitutional Court, which was also for one reading; or the same reform, the Law of the Year 2009, of the Council of State Guarantees, also for one reading. Therefore, our parliamentary group understands that there are all the guarantees because this Parliament can act as a Parliament and we can give compliments in this one-reading process. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.109.0	Thank you, Mr. Batet. Now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mr Antoni Castellà's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.110.0	Yes, thank you, President. On behalf of the Republic Group, we believe that this law can be perfectly processed for single reading. In fact, if we do not go to Article 138 of our Rules of Procedure, very concretely, that ‘a draft law can be dealt with directly or with a single reading by Parliament if the nature of the draft advises it or the simplicity of the wording allows it. These are the two conditions. And the two conditions we have to decide the deputies. I want to remind you that the Board of State Guarantees is a consulting body. And when I say consult from the perspective that its members – I am convinced that they do so – when they issue opinions from the perspective of consult organ, not precept. And probably the reflections you are making, from the consulting point of view, are never the same as if you have responsibilities in preceptual terms. Therefore, it is up to us Members to decide. And who do we have the sovereignty to decide whether or not we make a single reading of the Members on the basis of this article? And there are two conditions. The natural girl advises me? Yeah. We think so. Why? Because we're talking about the ability or not of a given investment. And it probably doesn't cost me to tell you anything that, in any law, the ordinary process is always better. But it is precisely that the Guarantee Board says that it will never come into the context of the situation, which corresponds to the Members. And the context of the situation is that we are in a term of investment debate in which the natural advises us to make this change. And the second is simplicity. It is clear that the honourable Members, if they read the amendment, does not affect the parliamentary system, does not affect to question whether one president has to have one condition or another. Simply, what it allows is a non-physically face-to-face investiture – and then we'll have time to debate it – in full 21st century. But, at the end and end – and with this, Mr President – what are we talking about in the background? In the background, we are talking about a part of this chamber that does not accept that all the rest of the Members have the same political rights. That's what we're talking about. What we are discussing on the merits is that it is not accepted that, after some elections, there is a certain majority who propose the candidate I propose, because all the deputies chosen for the people of Catalonia have the same rights. That's what we're talking about. What we're discussing is that we're in a _marc and a rule, the 78, that it's not fully democratic. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.111.0	Thank you, Mr. Castellà. It is now the return of Mr Miquel Iceta, on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.112.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to start my intervention with only two words: why? Why make a law that you yourselves have already said you don't intend to serve? Why make a law to invest someone who can't be invested? Why let go of the unanimous and unanimous position of the Board of State Guarantees? Don't they trust their members? Why do they want to approve this read-only law? I see what the Council of State Guarantees literally says – I quote –: "The single reading mechanism should be restricted to the assumptions of broad consensus between parliamentary groups or of government regulations that should be approved by reason of general interest. Yesterday, in this House, we had a magnificent example of this subject with the motive of Romero Law, of the moratorium on the requirement of the third language in university studies. [[Widow's remorse.]] More literally from the opinion of the Guarantee Board: "The absence of the procedure and its report, the pre-emptive appearances to the opening of the terms of the statements and the work in committee with the corresponding opinion is to the detriment of the exercise of the action of parliamentarians, especially those of the minority. The Guarantee Board, as it did on September 6th and 7th, warns them not to raise minority rights. According to the Council's opinion: "Unique reading is not an appropriate option in cases of high social or political sensitivity of matter in which there is an obvious lack of minimal consensus among parliamentary forces. And you pretend to skip this to change neither more nor less than the investiture procedure of the President of the Generality and how to make decisions of the Government. Still more literal quotes: "Basic development laws, at least in their most substantial elements, cannot be approved or reformed for the single legislative reading procedure. More mentioned: "The unique configuration of basic development laws is contradictory to the exceptional, watered down and simplified nature of the single parliamentary reading procedure. Finally..., and another quote, the later: "The parliamentary procedure chosen is an insurmountable incompatibility in accordance with the prescriptions of the Statute and the same regulation of the Parliament. The previous legislature finally derailed when you decided to disregard the criteria of the Guarantee Board in accordance with the laws of the referendum and of legal transitionality. We ask them, we beg them, if they want: they do not fall into the same mistake again. Then they will say that the State does not leave them, but the truth is that our country does not like them. And the Catalonia State Guarantee Board tells us that, and not Madrid. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.113.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Now, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Mr Xavier Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.114.0	Certainly today we are living another passionate debate, but, frankly, it is a purely symbolic debate. In fact, it is not a question of cunning, of those cunning who brought us where they brought us, because all of them, all of them, all of them who defended this proposal and those who did not, know perfectly well that Puigdemont is not a viable candidate; it is not, of course, in the proper months. So, actually, it's a debate that's a screen debate, a vision debate. The real debate we're facing all of us here is either there's an actual government to get out of 155 and get our institutions back, or there's a justification for going to nine elections. This is the real and substantive debate that we are facing here; it will not be a real debate about a possible investment at a distance. And in this debate we'll be living surrealistic things. Today we have seen how it now turns out that it is..., the case about whether it is a single reading or not would be the case of the Constitutional Court against the Council of Statutory Guarantees. We have seen the spokesman of Junts for Catalonia defend the Constitutional Court against the Council of State Guarantees. The Board of Statutory Guarantees is an organ, effectively, statutari. It may be recalled that its serious opinions are binding if the 2010 Constitutional Court ruling against the Statute, which detailed the Statute, has not eliminated this. Therefore, this Parliament which claims its sovereignty independently of the Constitutional Court has approved is that they are binding, these opinions. [[Greetings.]] And, in this sense, we had, what you present, who know that it is not viable for an investiture, and, therefore, the urgency is not justified, what you present modifies a basic law, effectively, of the State, as it has been said; it contradicts the very Rules of the Parliament of Catalonia, and they have accepted it, because they have made a subsequent statement in which they say such a good thing that in the same statement they already stipulated that in the next thirty days we are already amending the Rules of the Parliament of Catalonia. And that's already an explanation why it can't be read only and urgently, that's to say, because we need time, anyway, to talk about all this. It's with things that... there are debates that can be interesting. The issue of whether there is a government in which there may have been presence and people who participate in it in a telematic way, but, of course, to say that participating in a government in a telematic way is by electronic mail is difficult, because a mail is a mail; a mail is not a form of parliamentary debate or government constitution. All this already indicates that this debate could be very interesting, very rich, we could adapt to the 21st century, but it takes time, time we have. So, I don't need to approve anything right now for one reading because you know perfectly well that, even though I have it for one reading, as much as it will serve you as mere propaganda to explain the inexplicable, that's why we're going to nine elections. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.115.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. It is the turn, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, for the lady Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.116.0	Well, first of all, a brief reference to those who speak so much about parliamentary minorities and the rights of Members: many parliamentary minorities would already like to have the support that you have of the judicial and institutional organs of the State. With regard to one reading, it is perfectly legal and regulatory. That's enough arguments. But it's obvious that using this one-reading process in an abusive way, so it's an anomaly and a distortion. Likewise, we will always stand in favour of those proposals for law that seek to expand the civil and political rights of all citizens. And, therefore, we will also position ourselves in favour of its unique reading process.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.117.0	Thank you, sir. Now, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.118.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have, for the debate on whether or not this proposal for a law presented by the Junts per Catalunya Group can be debated in a single reading procedure, at least two important legal documents that allow us to assess the opportunity or not of the debate through the single reading procedure. First of all, I am referring to the report by the Members of Parliament themselves, which they drafted on 5 March, in which they already set out in a clear, clear and clear way that could not be dealt with, this proposal for a law, through the single reading procedure. And we also have the report, the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, in which, also unanimously, and also with a plurality of representatives on that committee..., and basically because they say that processing through the single reading procedure goes against the Statute of Catalonia and goes against the Rules of Procedure of the Catalonia Parliament itself. They are going to allow me the irony, but I think that, seen and heard the interventions so far, with all due respect, we could dispense with all the lawyers of the Parliament, we could dispense with the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, and comply only and exclusively with what Mr Batet and Mr Castellà tell us, that I am sure that they are much more dukes in laws and procedures than all the lawyers and that the whole Council of Guarantees Statutàries. The reason why this law cannot be, the amendment of this law dealt with by the single reading procedure, we understand it even those who come from engineering, from profession, and we have nothing to do with the laws, basically because this is a law of basic development of the Statute, that the Statute itself and that the Rules of Parliament itself set out a specific procedure for its amendment, and even a specific quorum for its approval. I therefore believe that it is quite common sense and quite simple that the procedure which you are now advocating for this proposal for a law cannot be applied. Let me simply, in conclusion, fully agree with the expression that a Member of the Republican Left Group has used just before what we are dealing with right now and which literally said that laws are an instrument at the service of the people. Well, I hope that the Republican Left Group will also vote against this unique reading procedure, because what the Junts per Catalunya Group is doing is a law serving a single person.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.119.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa; why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.120.0	Yes; to request the reading, please, of the first and second paragraphs of the first conclusion of the opinion of the Board of State Guarantees and of the second conclusion. These are very brief paragraphs. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] First and second paragraphs of the first conclusion and second conclusion. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.121.0	Mr. Carrizosa, we don't have the opinion here... [[Widow's remorse. Long break.]] All right. So we'll read this text. I'll do the vice president second, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.122.0	Yes, thank you, President. "Conclusions. First. The Proposal for a Law amending Law 13/2008, the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, does not meet the requirements of naturality or simplicity required by Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament in order to be processed and approved for the exceptional legislative procedure of one reading. Thus, the adoption of this route would also violate Articles 129 and 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, because the single reading procedure is not suitable to modify substantial aspects of the basic development laws of the Statute. Next. Article 1 of the proposed law, which adds a new paragraph to Article 4.2 of Law 13/2008, relating to the procedure for the investiture of the President of the Generality, regulates a matter which is reserved for the Rules of Parliament and, consequently, violates Articles 58 and 67.2 of the Statute. Both adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.123.0	All right. We called for a vote. Therefore, we would proceed to the vote in relation to the single reading of this bill. They know perfectly well that the votes in favour are in favour of one-reading and the votes against are in favour, the votes in favour are in favour of one-reading and the votes against are in favour of one-reading. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The single reading of this bill was approved by 70 votes to 64, with no abstentions. So we're still working on it. And we are now following the debate, which, according to Rule 138.3 of the Rules, is to be substantiated according to the standards established for the debates to the totality of the proposals of the law. Therefore, the first word is the group proposing this initiative. Mr. Albert Batet has the word, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.124.0	Many honourable Speaker of Parliament, Members and Members of Parliament of Catalonia, the Law of the Presidency is not a law of any kind, although only two articles of this law are amended........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We're in the 21st century, and I think he's already close to the administration that's been modernizing. And, despite these two articles, it is not a modification of any, for which means the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia, an institution with a long history to our birth: one hundred and thirty presidents; the first president mad Berenguer de Cruïlles in 1359. We have a past, we have a history and we have a future. This proposal for a change, when we hear it perfectly in accordance with the law, is a proposal that speaks of sovereignty, it is a proposal that speaks of democracy, it is a proposal that speaks of guaranteeing the rights of this Parliament, of sorting out among its deputies who must be the president. Finally, I am convinced that if this proposal was approved or proposed in 2011 or 2005, there would be no problem. Now it's still a problem, now it's still a question. And we think it's a question because it makes a very simple fact very clear, a very simple fact, but of a huge transcendence: who leads to Catalonia? Who has the power? What's wrong with the sobriety? For Junts per Catalunya, the sobriety emanates from the people of Catalonia, ras and short. As stated in Article 21 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the will of the people is the power of the state authority – the will of the people is the power of the state authority. And this will has to be expressed by means of elections. And on the 21st of December in Catalonia there were elections, with very clear results; some elections, by the way, which you called, the tripartite of 155, the People's Party, with the approval of the Socialist Party and of Ciutadans, voting for it in favour of the Senate. You yourself have called these elections after the end of the legitimate government of Catalonia, after suspending the autonomy of this Parliament, after repression, and repression that still lasts, with candidates for exile and candidates for imprisonment. And, despite these conditions, December 21st won the Republican majority and lost the 155th tripartite. You lost – you lost – the 155th tripartite lost. And it revalidated October 1. And he defeated electorally his repression to restore a government and invest President Puigdemont. But what is the reality in Catalonia? That the losers did not accept the result of the elections and want to win the court which they did not win in the ballot box, making it possible to prevent it..., when what is nearby is to invest to who has the votes to be invested. And what's the reality? Well, from the 21st of December to this Parliament there have already been four attempts of investiture. The first, that of President Puigdemont. They already know that we were prepared for that investiture on the 30th day of generation, but the legal engineering on that day did..., that week's head did exist, that disbanded, with the Constitutional Court against the reports of the Council of State, with tricks of the Moncloa, with tricks of the Sarsuela, inclusive pizzas, etcetera. This was legal engineering: how they tried to prevent the Parliament of Catalonia from investing the person who had the votes to be invested. Or, for example, the chairman of our parliamentary group, Mr Jordi Sánchez, with United Nations precautionary measures which have not been taken into account. [[Widow's remorse.]] United Nations precautionary measures, yes, sirs. Or the Councillor Turull; surely the hardest fact that could have lived during all these years of democracy here in the Parliament of Catalonia: that at the middle of a plethora of Parliament's investiture he gets arrested just to avoid his investiture. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And, in addition, a parliament that can approve resolutions that say that the legitimate government is to be recovered, that there is a compromise with restitution and that is to be invested, that there is confidence to invest with a solid majority President Puigdemont. What a contradiction, that you can vote with resolutions and you cannot vote with an investiture! Now, with this law change, we still have more guarantees and more security – that's why we have pushed this reform – because no one can say it's not possible. And with this change, let's make it clear that Catalonia's president of the Catalonian Government is being educated by Catalans in the polls and in the elections. It's a question of sobriety: who's driving Catalonia? The Catalans or the king? Who's driving to Catalunya? , voting at polls or judicial stations? Who's driving to Catalunya? , the popular will and the parliamentary majority or Mr. Mariano Rajoy and the tripartite of 155, who lost the elections of 21st December? Who's driving to Catalunya? democracy or repression? It is very simple: it is very important in democracy to respect the election results and to be faithful to whom people voted. Proof of this is that the 155th tripartite – the Socialists, the Citizens and the People's Party – did not try to make government, because they can't, because they don't have the majority. And, also, according to what Moncloa was announcing to us at these very moments, while we are talking and debating a law in the Parliament of Catalonia, at these very moments they are already preparing all the resources because the Parliament of Catalonia cannot do it. So, let's know one thing: we won't give up – we won't give up. We will not surrender, because we will not surrender to the prisons, because we will not surrender to exile, because we will not surrender the parliamentary groups here to the Parliament of Catalonia, because we will not surrender to the Government, because we will not surrender to the elections. Because the Republican majority of the people of Catalonia will not surrender, because the majority of the people of Catalonia against repression will not surrender, because we will not surrender the assemblies or civil society, because President Puigdemont will not surrender. Because democracy always wins, because the republic advances, and repression will lose. [[Greetings.]] Because this is a parliament, and a parliament must respect its decisions and the majority will of all Catalans and Catalans. I have just made a note of the Parliament's letters which have shown me that the language corrections proposed for chamber servants must be accepted, except for those referred to in Article 2 and Article 3 and 4. Respect democracy, respect for the outcome of elections, respect for the majority of Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, and then we can talk about an investiture here in the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.125.0	Thank you, Mr. Batet. In order to defend the papers presented to the text of the proposal, Mr Santi Rodríguez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.126.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we find some coincidence with Members. I've mentioned Republican Left before; I'm going to quote it again, because it seems interesting to me. Now also with the..., even with Mr. Batet, only – a lot of money, huh? – with its first expression: "This is not any law. Look, we absolutely agree, this isn't any law, as much as you think it's any law, because they're submissive to the process of submissive to any law. No, this is a basic development law of the State, this is a law that effectively regulates an issue as important as the Presidency of the Generality and that you potentiate for its own party interest. Actually, this isn't any law. The laws, indeed, respond to the general interest. But this law that you bring here today responds to a particular interest and responds to a party interest. I fully share the expression, which I used before: "The laws are an instrument for the people's service. Laws cannot be an instrument either to the service of a political party or to the service of a person, as is the case that you are, in this case, using, to the service exclusively – exclusively – of Mr Puigdemont. The laws... It's a person... I also want to refer to it, because obviously it's a person who has rights, of course; but, like everyone and as a city of Catalonia, it also has obligations – it also has obligations. And what we're dealing with precisely is a question of obligations. President Puigdemont chose not to comply with his obligations. And he has done so on two occasions: the first, as President of the Generality, with a deep disloyalty towards the citizen of Catalonia, all the citizens of Catalonia; but the second, avoiding his responsibilities and fleeing justice, which is where he is now. And you bring us here a proposal of law to make it easier for a person who has failed to comply with his obligations, who is outside Catalonia and outside Spain to evade the action of justice, to modify a law so that he can be chosen for you as President of the Generality. We obviously don't share that. Obviously, the proposition of law that you pose to the consideration of this Parliament is not only to give service to this person, but also to try to avoid the action of justice and the precautionary measures that the Constitutional Court put in relation to a hypothetical investiture session of candidate Puigdemont. And that's the point. And, of course, we already know that you, of the Constitution, of the State, of the very Rules of Parliament, are quite indifferent to them, but they must allow me to recall some of the positions that, in later months, in later weeks, there have been in relation to this possibility that you are formally posing here as a bill of law. And the first came the 15th generation – I already know that Mr Batet's criteria are certainly on top of everything that I will explain now, but I think it's important –: the same 15th generation of the readers of this Parliament have already warned of the impossibility of a long term investment session for telematic media. On the 25th generation, two decisions of the Council of State – I already know that Mr Batet's criteria are also in line with the criteria of the Council of State – show that it is not possible to conclude an investment debate with a person who is absent. The 27th generation are the precautionary measures of the Constitutional Court which show that an investiture in the candidate's absence cannot last. The 30th generation of the same Constitutional Court ratified the 27th generation decision. March 5th is again a report of the letters that is not only a position on the opposition to single-reading processing, but more than just two things in relation to this law. A first: can not process an investiture for telematic mitjans. And a _second: it is an instrumental law proposition, which has to serve only and exclusively give response to a particular situation of a person. The 26th of April follows a new decision of the Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.127.0	Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.128.0	I'm done quickly, Mr. President. And on April 26th ends with the advice of the Board of State Guarantees. Listen to me, apart from all legal considerations, I think there's one that's fundamental: the common sense. There is no democracy parliament in the world that has ever been set up than the investiture process of a president must be by telematic means. I, if I may, ask them to regain their common sense, to recognize that parliamentarians with pending causes with justice cannot exercise power of government. I'm going back to reality – I'm going back to reality – which I can sum up in a very simple way...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.129.0	Time's up, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.130.0	... – I finish –: the republic does not exist. Left Republican, in his political stance, he already recognizes it. Now they just need to recognize it from Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.131.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.132.0	The profiteer, they're going to... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.133.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. In order to defend the points following the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, Mr Miquel Iceta has the word, for a maximum of two minutes, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.134.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not possible to make an investiture without the presence of the presidential candidate; it is not possible to govern Catalonia from outside Catalonia. With these arguments there is not enough to explain our opposition to reform that comes to us, they are arguments of common sense. But legal arguments were not lacking; they already provided us with the press of the chamber weeks ago, March 5. In addition, there is no need to read the advice of the Board of State Guarantees. I have read many opinions of the ancient Consulting Council, now the State Guarantee Council, and I do not remember any such strong one as the one that originated his project. A unanimous opinion, of our own institution, under Article 155, without interference from the State, with an undisputed composition. We all know very well who its members are; suspicious people, therefore. We have always defended that here we do things better, that we are more rigorous. Remember that we wanted to – and the Constitutional Court prevented it – that the decisions of the Guarantee Board were binding. In practice, linking the decisions of the Guarantee Board only depends on us, but in this case you are subject to the criteria of the Constitutional Court. And the Board of State Guarantees tells us very important things. I quote literally: "The law cannot validly regulate matters that are protected by the reserve of parliamentary regulations. Say more: "The oral and personal nature of the presentation, the order of the ensuing debate, with its replicas and counter-replications, and the time available to interveners and the form of final voting, form, sense of doubt, a procedure that can only be regulated by Parliament itself, through its Rules of Procedure. And the proposal that is being debated, through the reform of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, is nothing but a covert reform of the Rules of Parliament. It is absolutely childish and ridiculous to want to mention this country, this tax, from the additional provision that they now propose to us; as it is ridiculous to pretend to equate the possibility of delegation, in case of absence, that only affects the expression of the vote and in no case the interventions and actions during the celebration of the plenary or the committees. Until the Guarantee Board is obliged to remind them that – I quote literally – ‘it is the competence of Parliament's Rules of Procedure to impose the duty of assistance on all Members, and consequently, also the candidate for the presidency, who is precisely the protagonist of the session. He said: "The oral nature and essence of the investiture parliamentary debate excludes all delegation or any other form of presentation of the investiture programme, which sets it out in Rule 149 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. And the Guarantee Board is taxed on respect, when it says: "The Member, when he accepts the initiative of the President to appear before the plenary as the candidate, must be on condition that the investiture debate is fully carried out and completed, within the framework of the rules governing and ordering parliamentary activity, which, as we know, is eminently personal. And the opinion is round, to the text of new paragraph 4.2, now 4.3: "It is incompatible with the current constitutional and statutory order. Clear, impossible. If anyone has not yet understood, that is possible, the opinion does not make any explanation when it says: "The content of the precept detracts from the investiture procedure, while violating the guarantees of the Members in the exercise of their function of political representation, and in particular those of those who are outside the margins of the majority, which is likely to undermine their confidence to the legitimately proposed candidate. And as has not always been the case with the Guarantee Board, this has not been repeated, as it says: "It is not surprising to remember that the parliamentary system is governed by the general character and prevailing by the rule of the majority, but at the same time it must give careful compliments to the substantive and procedural standards that guarantee the rights of the minority. You again want to raise minority rights, like September 6th and 7th. They did it today and pretend to do it with an investiture session. The telematic investiture, which is not provided for in the Regulation and which, therefore, could not be foreseen through this legal reform, according to the Guarantee Board, would be limited to situations of malaise or disability which, on a provisional basis, are impossible for the candidate or presidential candidate to physically attend Parliament, during the period of time when the debate and the investiture vote are to take place. And it says: "In any case, this option should only be available in cases that, as we have just indicated, are compatible and not contradictory from the very moment they are accepted and processed, with the immediate and subsequent ability of the candidate, I repeat, "with the immediate and subsequent ability of the candidate, if finally chosen by the Ple, to take possession of and exercise full responsibility for which he has been voted most, according to the terms established by the State and the applicable legislation. Nor does the Guarantee Board argue about telematic mechanisms in the process of deliberation and decision making to the Government. He says: "For what he does to government meetings, Article 10 of the Statute establishes that his permanent organ is Barcelona, without harm that it is possible to gather in other places of Catalonia, according to what he establishes the law. From this strict territoriality rule, which, on the other hand, is of direct application and consequently does not mean that the law repeats, it turns out that for its valid constitution, to the effects of the celebration of sessions and deliberations, as well as of the signing of agreements, that the meetings are located in Barcelona, even though occasionally they can last in other places, if well, always in the Catalan territory. Repeat: always in the Catalan territory. The Board of Guarantees recalls that this does not mean, however, that it is imagining, neither constitutionally nor statutoryly permissible, that the sessions at the distance of the Government displace the general rule of the face sessions in its permanent of this, the city of Barcelona, article 10 of the Statute. The opinion, moreover, is round to one of the assumptions that perhaps it is the ones that motivate this evil attempt to reform. He said: "We want to remind you again that this remote participation is limited to non-personal assistance in the Catalan territorial area. In fact, the advice of the Guarantee Board no longer knows how to say it, and at the end of it says: "The ordinary exercise of the functions of the President inevitably requires his presence in Catalonia. And the same as the rest of the members of the government. And besides, he doesn't leave a single one when he says that the telematics elements are to be served, in Catalonia in any case and exceptionally. Therefore, neither the non-personal investiture nor the telematic government, since it is alienated, is possible. They are not possible through the covert reform of the Rules that you claim. Nor would it be legal to amend the Rules, because these changes would subvert constitutional and statutory forecasts, violate the rights of Members and pervert parliamentary control mechanisms. I should like to leave my opinion on the subject of policy and debate. Why do they get together on roads they don't wear? And that you know that they don't carry any place, and that they even speculate publicly about other candidates, that I don't know if we're on Plan D or E anymore, I'm lost. Why do they not attempt to invest a president through the presentation of a viable candidate? Because you're right, and no one puts you in doubt, you have all the right to rule because you've won some elections. What they don't have right is to distort our parliamentary and government mechanisms, because that's not much of what you allow. You're going to Berlin yourself tomorrow, and it's logical, because you think that making important decisions is not enough with a video conference, and you're right. And so, you could have done a pedagogical task proving that this was possible from the telematics thing, but it doesn't seem to be possible. Think about the country, think about the city as a whole, think about how we all contribute to normalizing the country's institutional functioning, how we better serve the general interest, and even more, how we can contribute as effectively as possible to closing wounds, overcoming divisions, and even better plan the difficult path from those who expect a judicial resolution. Respect the law, respect the forms, because without respect for the law and forms there is no respect for democracy. From the 21st generation, we could and should have a government. We're on May 4th. I ask them not to exhaust the term that ends on May 22. They do what the vast majority of Catalans, who the vast majority of yourselves know they need to do. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.135.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.136.0	Thank you, Mr. President. We are not in the debate on the Presidency Act, we are in the debate on the Puigdemont Act. A law that has names and surnames, a law that is a suit tailored to a fugitive from justice, that wants only rights but no obligation. A law that seeks to be impunity, impunity of politicians, impunity of being able to jump the whole legal system, that nothing happens to them and, above all, to be able to access public offices without fulfilling the obligations that are regulated in the laws to be so. It is a barbarity, it is a barbarity from a legal, democratic, parliamentary point of view. It's a real freak. What happens is that we are no longer surprised at anything, because after what we have seen here do to you, for already this, well, one more barbarity – one more barbarity. The Puigdemont law does not surprise us after what we saw on September 6 and 7, which was a real shame, to which you are eager to return and are returning today. What happens is that they have fewer MEPs even than on 6 and 7 September, there are fewer separatists in Parliament than on 6 and 7 September, that is to say they continue to do the same barbarities with less and less support – with less and less social support. And I am not going to repeat myself in what we have already said, but the report of the Council of State Guarantees is demolishing, and unanimously – unanimously – even those you put your finger on there, say that this is a real aberration. We have said this before, but, ladies and gentlemen of the process, the single reading is for laws that are simple, simple. Laws that have, or unanimity or absolute consensus, that Mr Batet made yesterday reference to the law that was adopted here. Did you notice the screen, Mr. Batet, when you voted? Did you see a lot of green buttons and green lights? Did you see any reds? Did you see any abstention? No, right? Why? Because he voted unanimously. Do you know the difference between unanimity and parliamentary majority, which does not even have a majority behind it? Do you know the difference between one thing and another? It is either to be able to use one reading or not to be able to use it, among other things. That's right. [[Greetings.]] This law is de facto a basic development of the Statute of autonomy and therefore cannot be done by one reading. How do you have to tell them already in the Council of State Guarantees? What are fairies there, too? Have you added them to your list of sides, because you do not give them reason? Sideways of their own, too, which are the worst, aren't they? [[Rialles.]] The botiflers, who have appointed you, are fairies too. [[Greetings.]] And, moreover, it is a matter of common sense, because in the content of your proposal – if you can call it that, that is a Puigdemont law – what they are saying is that you don't have to come here to make an investiture of presidents. You deny the debate with the opposition and you don't even have to come to Catalonia to rule Catalonia. But then, you have the incongruence of going to Berlin tomorrow everyone to make a Puigdemont group meeting, because with that you don't play, group meetings have to be face-to-face, but, man, rule can be by email, by Skype, by WhatsApp. Can you please stop being ridiculous? Can you stop being ridiculous? It's a real ridiculous thing. No, you don't believe it. If, moreover, Mr. Batet, has anyone believed Mr. Batet when he said that this was going to serve for Puigdemont to be president? Do you really believe that there is any Catalan, some independentist or not, all respectable, who thought his intervention was convincing? Is this going to make Puigdemont president? Really, they've already done it on the 6th and the 7th, all the laws have been blown. The next law you are going to try to jump is the law of gravity, now? Because they don't have another one left. That's all right. If this doesn't lead to anything. Moreover, you are not even original, because this of making laws fast and running, jumping all the requirements for a specific person, to give impunity, is not new. Look, the other day I was talking to an Italian friend who was saying, "What they're trying to do with the Puigdemont law is the same thing Berlusconi did in Italy. And it is also that I have found some press that I recognize that has made me laugh a little, because, as you know, this law of impunity that Berlusconi approved and that wanted to guarantee its impunity, was declared null and void by the – I suppose for you too, evil – Italian Constitutional Court, which is exactly the same as we have here, isn't it? And in this news it says: "In his first public statements, after hearing the verdict, the verdict of the sentence that said they nullified the law of impunity of Puigdemont, "Prime Minister Berlusconi has assured that he will continue with or without the norm, because these things matter to me a cucumber. I do not know how to say « cucumber in Italian, but it certainly looks good. "Moreover," the news says, "faithful to his style, the Prime Minister has said that these kinds of events give him more energy to move on with his project. Does it ring a bell to you? There's more – there's more. Berlusconi's partner, who was the spokesman for the North League, threatened to appeal to the people if the judges were to overthrow Berlusconi's law. "We have the people with us," Bossi said. " Who would want to challenge the wrath of the people? Does that ring a bell? Just the same, heeled. [[Greetings.]] Obviously, they are different countries; of course, we are in another context; of course, I am convinced that on a personal level there are certainly differences between Mr Puigdemont and Mr Berlusconi, but at the level of the law it is exactly the same. And you know what happened in Italy? What is going to happen in another European democracy, which is Spain: that Berlusconi and Mr Puigdemont with their laws will fail. Because they are not facing Rajoy, I repeat, they are facing more than half Catalonia, a solid democracy of the European Union and common sense. And when you face all that, in the end you lose – in the end you lose – it is that you have no other. And you know that this law will not apply. They bring her here to get her killed. All you have to do is see the tone of joy – I say it ironically – with which you have defended this law here, as if saying: "Yes, yes; this will allow Puigdemont to be president. This law will not apply anywhere except in the imaginary republic of Puigdemont. In the imaginary republic of Puigdemont this Puigdemont law may be in force, but in the democratic reality of the Catalans this law will not be in force nor will Puigdemont be president. Do you understand or do you not understand? Can we conclude that we should not go the same way? Can we conclude that the imaginary republic of Puigdemont does not exist? Because in the imaginary republic of Puigdemont Mr Puigdemont has won the elections; Mr Puigdemont is unpunished and has the ability to do whatever he wants. In fact, remember the Transitional Act, which they said. The imaginary republic of Puigdemont chooses the judges of the Supreme Court, who do not even have to be judges, who can be friends with their law career. In the imaginary republic of Puigdemont, he is meeting with European presidents because he is the president of the republic; he signs as the president of the Catalan republic. In reality, the first one to see him in jail in Germany was a leader of the extreme right-wing Germany, and his partners in Belgium were the leaders of the far-right Flemish nationalist. That is the democratic reality. In the imaginary republic of Puigdemont, he is exiled, he is a political persecuted. Well, in the democratic reality, even in the judgment of Germany – so much so that you like to take it out to yourself because it now seems like salvation –, in the judgment that denied Mr Puigdemont's extradition – fix, we respect all the sentences –, it is said – listen, that perhaps you have never read it, nor heard it – : « You cannot claim that the accused – that is, Puigdemont – « if extradition is carried out, as the defence claims, you would be subjected to political persecution. In other words, the Kingdom of Spain could condemn the accused solely because of his political ideas. This is the democratic reality. That Puigdemont has been exiled is the imaginary republic of Puigdemont. The difference is abysmal. In the imaginary republic of Puigdemont, the process is a success, it has borne fruit; you have a republic. In the democratic reality of the Catalans, the process has been a failure from all points of view – from all points of view –: economic, institutional, democratic, parliamentary, social, from all points of view. And I'm telling you: it's been a failure, too, even for the people you've been deluding for years. Because I say to him: in that imaginary republic of Puigdemont no one lives more than him, because not even the citizens who want—they want—independence lives in that imaginary republic. Do you not realize that this is a clash not only against democratic principles, but against reality? How many more months do they have to pass? How many more laws are going to bring us here for the sole purpose of being shot down? The big question, Mr Batet, is not whether Mr Puigdemont will be president or not. I don't think there's any Catalans who have that doubt. The question is: are we going to elections or are you going to agree and are going to put here a government that complies with the laws. What is this, a law...? [[Greetings.]] What is this, a Puigdemont law as a pre - government act, or is this a Puigdemont law as a pre - campaign act?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.137.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.138.0	Can you explain it to us?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.139.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.140.0	And I'm done, Mr. President. Don't feed this farce any more, Mr. Batet, please. Sooner or later, you and we are going to have to talk, we are going to have to agree things, we are going to have to reach agreements on health, on education, on infrastructure, on waiting lists, on air quality. We have to reach so many agreements and so many consensuses that I only ask you, please, to stop living in that imaginary republic of Puigdemont, where Catalans do not even live; Catalan independenceists do not live there either. Finally, they assume their parliamentary responsibility. There is an unfair law that gives you a parliamentary majority without having a majority vote on the street. We, as democrats, respect the laws we don't like; this too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.141.0	Mrs. Rimadas!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.142.0	But I'm just asking you..., the most serious thing is not that some of you have escaped from justice, the most serious thing is that for the moment all of you are still escaped from reality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.143.0	Now, to position himself, for a turn against the elements, has the word Lord Albert Batet, for a maximum time of five minutes. Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.144.0	From here, President, to reiterate some statements that I see that they are not shared or that they have not been understood or explained correctly. It is not a change of law for a specific person; in fact, it could serve many people. And the people that also, so..., apart from President Puigdemont, that should never have been ceased – and that at least for us is not, ceased. And, therefore, it is a law that could also be used for Jordi Sánchez, for Mr. Counselor Turull and for other people who may be unable to make oral defense of his investiture here in the House of Parliament. Mr.Iceta says: "You can't rule Catalonia from outside Catalonia. So, God does not, for the PSC, for having approved 155 and letting the Government of Catalonia preside over it by Mr. Mariano Rajoy! [[Greetings.]] God is there to rule Catalonia from Madrid! You see that this is possible. It is not possible to govern, but from Madrid it is possible to govern, with the approval of the Socialist Party. They demand rigor, Mr. Iceta. You also say that... there can't be... face-to-face. Listen'm, the year 2012, in the United States, a mayor took possession for Skype. I believe that in the modern era of communication technologies and digital policies, public administration in Catalonia is a good thing to adapt. And, finally, Mrs. Arrimadas, I believe that with your speech you have shown in a very fruitful way that you have not accepted your defeat of the elections of the 21st of December, that you do not accept that there is a majority, here, republican, to the Parliament of Catalonia, that you have the votes sufficient to invest President Puigdemont or the candidate who believes it is opportune. And I think your speech denotes this electoral defeat. [[Widow's remorse.]] If not, listen'm, I proposed his investiture. But he doesn't have the majority; he doesn't have the majority of deputies and deputies. We've tried it four times – four times – and with people who could be there, like Mr. Turull...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.145.0	Please, respect the word turns, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.146.0	...that started a ple and won't let it end because at half ple he'll put himself in jail. And, finally, his speech of victimism and defeatist of the process, which has been so successful electorally for you... I would just say that today the process is economically..., so, well, Catalonia has the best data of the month of April since the year 2010; it means that the process also, therefore, must help that there is less time for Catalonia. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.147.0	Thank you, Mr. Batet. Now it's the turn of the rest of the parliamentary groups. To position the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Antoni Castellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.148.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, why are we today debating this proposal to amend the Presidencies' Law? Do we normally debate whether the 21st century is possible to make a non-personal investiture? Do we do this to see what technological elements are possible to hold virtual execution council meetings from different physical locations? Are we debating whether in the full framework of what we call the knowledge revolution, where Catalonia has a protagonist role, where 5G, artificial intelligence or virtual imagery is developed..., analyse in this framework whether it is possible to participate in a meeting at a distance or whether physical interference to attend an investment debate can have a technical solution? Having this debate has an obvious answer: yes, of course it is; it is possible and with all the guarantees, it would just be missing. And, in fact, we vote electronically and sign electronically and females through the phone. So that's what they want this modification, and that's why we support it. In fact, I should have had the unanimity of the chamber, if that was the fund debate. But we remain clear, ladies and gentlemen: this is not the fund debate. This is not a debate of technological instruments in the service of democracy, no. This is not the debate about whether or not this read-only law can be done; neither is this debate. The background debate is whether or not the Spanish institutional system and part of this chamber accept the result of democratic elections. This is the question of funds. It is possible that this legislative change does not serve to invest anyone. I don't have any complex to say. And even we might have valued processing it with an ordinary process, if the debate was about e-democracy. But this is not the debate. This proposal of law serves to denounce and put on evidence that some do not accept the election result and that they seek to veto the candidates that legitimately present the majority of this Parliament. This proposal for you is evidence that we are experiencing a moment of democratic involvement. We are debating in a parliament that has intervened; in a state, that of the 78th Regime, a rule that is not fully democratic. Why did we get here? We have come all the way here because a majority of this chamber and the Spanish State did not accept the result of the elections of 27 September 2015, with a very clear mandate, and that was carried out with the reference of 1 October. October 1 was an example of cross-cutting democracy, of democracy exercises in the pure state, which the 78's regime responded with brutal violence. That day the Spanish State lost the reason to be in Catalan territories. That day the State struck its citizens, women, men, children and opinions. And the determination of the people that day defeated the violence of a tyrannical state. October 1st, the Spanish State failed in Catalan territories. October 1st Catalonia was self-determined and gave a clear mandate that today we consider to be fully valid. And this some do not forgive, and they began the "for them," exercised by all the powers of the State and realized in the summer of 155. But the summer of 155 needed a democratic endorsement, it needed the tincture of the ballot boxes. And they called for a few elections. And how they needed to win they cheated, and they exercised the censorship of the right of expression, the intervention of the media, the prohibition of propaganda, the attack on the Catalan economy, the institutional lie, the exile of candidates and the arrest of many of the candidates, and the arrest of one of the list leaders and the exile of the other list leader. The only objective was to consolidate and justify the 155 vote by ballot. And, despite all the cheating, he finally got it wrong. And the forces loyal to the republic have had a clear majority, because the majority of the people of Catalonia have a tradition of democratic values and of the will that some do not understand or accept. And the outcome of the 21st of December elections was not accepted. That's why we're debating this law reform, because in the state and part of this room they don't like candidates who legitimately pose a Republican majority. They don't like them. That's why we're debating this. And in this sense they have launched a campaign of brutal repression, to try to win by force what is not won by the ballot box. Catalonia's self-determination process has dyed and served as proof of the fact that the 78's rule is not democratic. There can be no democracy in a state that is persecuting 80_percent of mayors for its democratic ideology, but sometimes it allows the exercise of political corruption institutionalized as a lesser evil. It is a rule, that of 78, that pursues democratic associations like Cultural Ómnium and like the ANC but at the time finance with public money the Francisco Franco Foundation, a foundation dedicated to the exaltation of the dictator, of a murder, and nothing happens; the rule that pursues to citizens for its ideology, to display the grocish color, to gather and play music, to carry a chililet or a nose of pallasso, but it honors the polices that brutally exercised the violence against these same citizens. A rule, the 78's, where independenceist demonstrations for seven years, and massive, have been demanding with little and without any single incident, nor one; and, in the same rule, every time there is a unionist demonstration always ends with violent incidents, involving fascist elements, raising their arms in front of national police officers and these smiles, and then ending the day by striking innocent citizens. It's all right. This is a rule where rapes are abuses, where the authors sentence them to prison, but the threats of death from neo-Nazis to journalists are captivated in "how to express themselves. It is a rule that wants to criminalize the Catalan school model, because this is the success model of the essential element of our country's cohesion. It's a thousand-charged rule of political corruption that frees up the streets. But righteous and innocent people, elected representatives, their escho companions, unjudged, are in prison: they are political prisoners, they are hostages of the 78th rule. Yesterday I felt like a Member of Parliament said that, in the name of their ideology, they did not come up with taron bonds for the cities. Beyond what is legitimate – oh and so much! , it is possible to put the links that are needed in ideological terms –, the aim would be to say that this link, this grove, this link is not a political ideology, it does not represent independence, it does not represent independence, it does not represent left or right. This is charity, it's humanity, it's solidarity with those who suffer a brutal injustice. [[Greetings.]] That's what this place stands for and we'll keep carrying it. In short, a rule on which the majority of Parliamentarians who have won cannot present and appoint the candidate they want. This is what we are discussing in this legislative amendment. As I said at first, it's possible that this law or this law modification doesn't work to invest in anyone, because they carry it, how they have loaded everything they don't like, using the state's devices. But one thing is clear: the people of Catalonia, for decades, have survived the repression of the different monarchical regimes, the repression of dictatorships and dictatorships. We were going to overcome the Francoism and we would overcome the 78 rule, because the popular mandate of October 1st and ratified on the 21st of September obliges us and, as much as the State exercises political, judicial and physical violence, the democratic will and in spite of the cross-sectional majority of the people of Catalonia is unbeatable. Whether they like it or not, the Republic of Catalonia will be a reality. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.149.0	Thank you, Mr. Castellà. This is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, of Mr Xavier Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.150.0	There have been... – good morning, Members, Members, President of the Parliament of Catalonia – there have been many legal arguments about the inviolability of the modifications that are presented and there are many more. That is to say, the Presidency must be face-to-face for many reasons, not only in the investiture, but, after the same investiture, to explain, for example, as Article 23 of the Presidencies Act says, the structure of the Government or for something so important and not so delegable that Article 41, which is the possibility of presenting a question of trust, is a matter of fact. But it is more, even more, for the possibility that you make a government not with the telematics theme, but a government that is outside Catalonia, Article 10 of the Statute makes it clear that its of the Government of Catalonia and of the Generality of Catalonia is right in Catalonia and Barcelona. Therefore, it is that, at last, the documents, without nor Constitutional Court through, would generate contradictions with the legal order that the Farien inviable. But I won't go this way, among other things because Mr. Antoni Castellà, who preceded me in the word, has already made it very clear to me, said: "This won't do any good. I'd like to do things that serve something. It's more, I think, just as Catalonia is at this point in time, that we should do things that we serve to get out of the situation where we are and not things that, as has been said, will not serve for anything. It is not a discussion, he said, about the telematic means of the 21st century, which would be very interesting, and he said that this might not be urgent, but with an extensive debate, but simply, if it is not for nothing, why do they do it? Why do they do so many things that don't work for nothing? Someday they'll have to explain. Why do they do so many things that don't work for nothing? The fund debate here, it's another, it's a political debate. Certainly. I recognize that. Catalonia has experienced situations in which the Generality of Catalonia, the Parliament of Catalonia has been in exile, has experienced these situations in history, have experienced them by the Presidents of the Companies, Irla and Tarradellas, who have shared this collective disarray, with more than 70,000 Catalans and more than 400,000 Spanish and exiled Spaniards. But this is not the current situation. This Parliament is here. On the 21st of December the Catalans voted, they voted a parliament, which is here, we are all here, and it is this Parliament that has the responsibility to recover... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Not all of us, you're right. Apologize. The responsibility to recover the Government of Catalonia and our institutions through the formation of a government. This is our responsibility and this is here in Catalonia, to be done from Catalonia and from this Parliament. It is here and not in any other place where our destiny is decided and we must make proposals to move forward here and not in any other place. Mr. Batet, I think you've made it very clear. The fundamental question, here, is 'who's coming? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You answered her: Puigdemont or whatever Puigdemont says. This is the answer... I think you have little to do with the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia, because Catalonia is not a presidentialist. The one that was sorted on the 21st of December was a parliament, the representatives of the people of Catalonia; it was not sorted a president. It is this Parliament that has to sort out the President; not a presidential candidate who has to decide the fate or dissolution of this Parliament and our future collections. The responsibility is collective, of all who are here, not of a single person, but it would be a presidential system, but it is not at these moments. Because you say... – and Mr. Eduard Pujol, who is not here in the chamber now, said it –: you have won the right to manage time, the time of the people of Catalonia. Have you won this right, with how many deputies? Thirty-four. It is not sixty-seven, it is not seventy-two, it is not 135; with thirty-four Members and you consider that you have the right to manage the time of the people of Catalonia. Not the responsibility, but the right to manage this time that passes, that passes and does not come out of 155, and that passes through the conjunction of the people of Catalonia, with all the emergencies that we have seen in the Ple of Guaranteed Income that has, at these times, the people of Catalonia. And the phone question, if you end up with this right, the right to manage time, I repeat, with thirty-four deputies and deputies... – don't be mistaken, thirty-four, eh? –, if you think... – and I think that, in addition, in your group or all of them are absolutely in agreement with what is going on –, manage the time to do what? Because, for what Mr. Antoni Castellà told us today, today, to do something. Manage the time to do exactly what? We won't know here today. Will we know what's going on? Would it have been, perhaps, better to do this debate after the debate? I'm afraid I'm not. I don't think you're gonna say king, either. They'll come out and say that they have the right to manage time and say that the Constitutional Court and so on. Do you know why? Because, in reality, of all the dramas and tragedies that we are living here, that there are many, there is not one that can not escape, that is that you do not know why you have to manage time. I would swear... I would promise, forgive, that no deputy of this chamber, nor those who comply with this majority that he considers to be managing time, you know. You don't know it; Mr. Batet doesn't know it; Mr. Pujol doesn't know it, or maybe it does, but you could tell us; I don't know if Mrs. Elsa Artadi knows it... Do you know if you will be running for an effective investiture or if we go to elections? It is tragic that you, representatives of the people of Catalonia, do not know this. Who knows? We could say Puigdemont knows, but he doesn't know either, because we've already experienced situations everywhere because there's a tweet, and the people of Catalonia decide their fate from one moment to the next. We've been through these situations too many times. And I will say this with all the respect of a person who is living in an unjust situation: "Sometimes it is necessary and necessary for a man to sacrifice himself for a whole people. It is never just and necessary for a people to sacrifice themselves for a man. Remember this always, Sepharad – remember this always, Sepharad. They don't have credibility. They've made thirty proposals, forty... And the reality is that they don't have it because you don't know where they're going – they don't know where they're going. And they can't, from thirty-four deputies and deputies, wait for Puigdemont or what Puigdemont says. Because that's not what the people of Catalonia voted for on the 21st of December. He did not vote for a presidential candidate, he voted for a Parliament of Catalonia, which is the one that must recover, here, the Generality and must move forward. To advance means to affirm the sovereignty of this Parliament, by screening a government and a president who recovers the Generality; to assume that it is necessary to exercise the responsibility of each and every deputy of this chamber in this chamber. Each of you, representing the people of Catalonia. The responsibility is for each of us – for each of us. Do we have to wait for him to wander to Berlin to explain it to them? In this sense, to move forward is to assume that the leaders to recover us from where we are to be exercised also from here and from here, from this country and from this Parliament. To advance is to form a government– to form a government– from humility. I think we need a lot of humiliation in this country: less epic and more humiliation. To know that the path will be long, not to announce that everything is going to work out in a moment, with a solution, with an investiture, because everyone knows it's not like that. Moving forward is bringing clarity to where there is darkness. They talk constantly about a president, they don't talk about a country; they talk about a lot of parties, they don't talk about a country. Who are the big targets to pull forward? We have made a proposal and it is very clear: to get out of 155 and get our institutions back; to fight against unfair justice that many political and social leaders of this country are patenting: social security plan; to work to end the judicialization of politics and to lay the foundations for building, effectively, a new country. To move forward is to make it honest to tell the truths that they have not been said in an electoral campaign and that they are not being said at these times, and that is why we live debates that do not serve for nothing. In the cement of incomplete promises, our self-government cannot be buried, because they are our collective rights. From the blocks, and I know it's hard, you can win some elections. They have lost the country, and we have to prepare to know that the current game will win... – moving forward is also that – it will win both Catalonia and Spain, not with the repetition of division and weakness, but with our forts, which are built from cross-cutting. To advance is to make a government for the people – for the people – all those people who carry years of struggle to the streets. All those people don't deserve this, they don't deserve debates that don't work for nothing. It's too much symbolism! Too many symbols just to justify decisions that you don't even know who you are. Because you don't know, you don't know what you're going to say, you don't know what you're going to say next week; in fact, you probably don't know, or what you've decided to do, not just for the thirty-four Members, but for the whole Parliament and for the whole people of Catalonia. Thirty-four Members. A person deciding for the whole town, in a non-presidential system. Moving forward is not that, that's going back democratically. To advance is to make a government of democracy and dignity of everyone in the best possible conditions, with the greatest possible strength, with the greatest possible consensus. I hope they make government. Honestly, as they are, I don't think they make a good government. Now, don't let them explain it after it's all solved with a few new elections, because they've explained it too often. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.151.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, for Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.152.0	Okay. We will intervene very quickly to position ourselves in accordance with this law proposal. We will vote in favour of it, just as we will vote in favour of all those legislative initiatives that seek to expand civil and political rights. But when neither with the modification of this House, nor with the few instruments available to this House, which is absolutely empty of sovereignty, can we assert the will of the majority of this Parliament, this Parliament must take decisions and exercise its political initiative, it must exercise its political initiative, without seeing 'unconditional in any case for the interferences of the State and its legal political framework. Let us hope that this is the case, because we have not come to this Parliament to marry or to generate confusion in accordance with regulatory or legal debates, we have come to this Parliament precisely to do politics. Mr. Domènech, you spoke of social emergence; you also spoke of the fact that the people on the street are not worthy of debates that do not serve for nothing. It's been a long time since this chamber has had debates that are absolutely useless for nothing. It has been a long time since this chamber was absolutely intervened, but it did not intervene at 155, intervened since a long time ago; intervened for article 135, intervened for the resolutions of the Constitutional Court, intervened for all the powers of the State, for the institutional, media and judicial powers. It's been a long time since this chamber has no political initiative, which is a simple us, a simple space of decentralisation solely administrative, of administrative management. This is not a political initiative. A few days ago, the Law on the Universalization of Health Care was suspended; previously, the Law on Equality between Men and Women; and the Law on Climate Change. And so we could make a very long list, like the Housing Emergencies Act. And, therefore, within this Parliament, it seems that we do not have the capacity to make decisions, that decisions are taken from another area, are taken from the Spanish State. And what we want is to be sovereign. And Mr. Batet has already said, this proposal to defend the sovereign law, and that's why we defended it. We have made a government of self-obedience and we are not going anywhere; the only thing we will do is subdue this Parliament's political initiative to repressive action, and therefore we will not be able to make any headway. And I ask them: how do we want to face this legislature? How do you want to face this legislature? Do they want to face it with a government of autonomous obedience, humiliating and complicating us as a people, or do they want to face it with the purpose of asserting popular will? We, the CUP - Constituent Creed, urge you to make the agreements that we will jointly approve, and we will approve them by 2015, with the declaration of 9 November, in which we agreed that the Parliament of Catalonia would not be subject to the decisions of the institutions of the Spanish State, and in particular those of the Constitutional Court. A statement that included urging the Government of the Generality to comply exclusively with the norms or mandates emanating from this legitimate and democratic chamber, in order to shield the fundamental rights that may be affected by the decisions of the institutions of the Spanish State. Here, at the CUP, they'll always find us. And, in addition, we are willing to take on all the responsibilities that we need: to enter the Bureau – we have already told you – which you need. That's right, in order to resuscitate the limits of autonomy, through legislative changes and finally end up doing what the Spanish State dictates, we won't be able to find any other allies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.153.0	Thank you, sir. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. Call it a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.154.0	Thank you, President. To ask for a separate vote on Emena 2, of the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.155.0	Okay. In any case, I am sure that first, as we agreed by the Bureau, we would vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, as it is a motion to withdraw the bill, eh? [[Long break.]] As I said, we will vote, first, on the question put to the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which proposes the withdrawal of the bill, and then we will vote on the rest of the questions. We would therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 78 against and no abstentions. Next, we proceed to the vote on the papers presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, starting with the issue number 2, which was called for by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is voted separately. The vote on this item number 2 begins. This item was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 78 against and no abstentions. And we would now vote for items 1 and 3 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. These items were rejected by 4 votes in favour, 94 against and 36 abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on the papers submitted for the Junts Group for Catalonia, which are the girls' papers to the original text. The vote on the papers presented for the Junts Group for Catalonia begins. The vote begins. These statements were approved by 70 votes to 63, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on the subsequent opinions of the Council of State Guarantees, presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units per Avançar. The vote begins. These items are rejected by 64 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. And we would then vote on the papers presented for the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, but in this case subsequent to the opinion. It would be the '1 to 3 exams. The vote begins. These items were approved by 70 votes to 64, with no abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, let's vote on the rest of the text. The vote begins. The remainder of the text was approved by 70 votes to 64, with no abstentions. Finally, and insofar as it is a basic deployment law of the Statute, it corresponds, in agreement with what are laid down in Articles 62.2, 67.5 and 68.3 of the Statute of Autonomy and Article 130 of the Rules, subtends the law's proposal to a final vote on the conjunction of the text, which requires, for its approval, the favourable vote of the absolute majority of the plenary of the Parliament. We would therefore proceed to the vote on the joint text. The vote begins. The joint text, therefore, was approved by 70 votes to 64, with no abstentions. Therefore, this proposal for law has been approved with the incorporation of those items that have been voted in favour. The session stands here, but not Marxin, who know that we are now calling for a new ple, in this case, for the election of senators of autonomous designation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.156.0	Let's start all the way along, so this specific plenary session, which is... [[Procedure for choosing Senators to represent the Generality to the Senate]] [[280-00001/12]] ... that has a single point of the order of the day, which is the procedure for choosing the senators to represent the Generality to the Senate. In accordance with Law 6/2010, which regulates the procedure for the appointment of senators represented by the Generality to the Senate, and once submitted the candidatures for the appointment of senators and which have dictated favorably to the Commission of the Status of Deputies, and in accordance with Article 4.5 of the Act, proposed to the chamber the names of the candidates to be appointed senators and senators in representation of the Generality. I ask the third secretary, Mr. Joan García, to read the names of the candidates who were presented jointly for parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.157.0	Candidates for Senators proposed for parliamentary groups. Grupo Parlamentari de Ciutadans : Francesc Xavier Alegre Buxeda, Lorena Roldán Suárez. Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia: Josep Lluís Cleries i Gonzàlez, Marta Pascal and Capdevila. Parliamentary Group Republic: Mirella Cortès i Gès, Bernat Picornell i Grenzner. Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress: José Montilla Aguilera. Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem : Sara Vila i Galán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.158.0	Thank you, Third Secretary. Let us now proceed to the vote. Before going to the vote, I would like to recall the voting delegations, in this case Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva and Antoni Comín, who have delegated their vote to Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Parliamentary Group Republicà. And deputies Jordi Sánchez, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull, Carles Puigdemont and Maria Isabel Ferrer, who have delegated their vote to Ms. Elsa Artadi, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. Okay with the article... [[Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]] Excuse me. Yes, Mr. Riera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.159.0	Thank you, President. Ask for the word for two observations. One, I think the secretary has made a mistake in referring to the Minutes, since it is not a decision taken by agreement of all parliamentary groups, bearing in mind that our group has abstained, as it will now, until, as you know, we oppose participation in the institutions of the State. And more in the current scenario, in which we do not understand this decision, since, for one band, talking about the republic and, for another, still wanting to occupy the institutions of the Spanish State, it seems to us an inconsistency and an absolute incongruity. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-04-0702.160.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. I made this acclaim... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please. According to Rule 5.2 of Law 6/2010 and Rule 101.3 of the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, the vote will be electronic and secret. The record that to vote must first press the presence button, as always, and then the concrete button. To guarantee the secrecy of the vote, as you know, the light corresponding to the vote will not be illuminated. I therefore call on the chamber servants to take the technical measures guaranteeing the secrecy of the vote. [[Long break.]] We shall now proceed to the vote. Before that, let them note that, in order to preserve the voting secret of those Members who have their vote delegated to the respective groups, those who have the vote delegated to them have already made their vote available to us, which we shall add to the final results. Therefore, the vote begins. The proposal to elect Senators to represent the Generality in the Senate was approved by 130 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. Therefore, and on the basis of these results, Senators and Senators representing the Generality to the Senate are appointed as the candidates previously mentioned; that is, Mr. Francesc Xavier Alegre Buxeda, Mr. Josep Lluís Cleries and Gonzàlez, Ms. Mirella Cortès and Gès, Mr. José Montilla and Aguilera, Ms. Marta Pascal and Capdevila, Mr. Bernat Picornell and Grenzner, Ms. Lorraine Roldán Suárez and Ms. Sara Vila and Galán. Thank you all very much. He congratulates the Senators who accompany us. The session's up.
