ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies, let's resume the session. [[Proposition of anti-corruption law and protection of whistleblowers (totality debate)]] [[202-00017/12]] The next item on the agenda is the debate on the proposal for a law to combat corruption and protect whistleblowers, which, as agreed to by the Board of Spokespersons, will be held in the same debate, together with the debate on the proposal for a law to protect whistleblowers in the jurisdiction of the Generality, presented by the parliamentary groups of Junts per Catalunya, Grup Parlamentari Republicà, Socialists and Units per Avancer, Catalonia en Comú Puede and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Crya Constituent. The other proposal, I did not say, was put forward for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Therefore, with all this, in accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and for a maximum of fifteen minutes, Mr Ignacio Martín. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.2.0	Good morning, President, thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, for me it is an honor to be here before all of you to address me and talk about a subject that I think interests us all. One of those themes, from Ciutadans we are always saying that they are the problems that really interest Catalans, in contrast to other themes, that we believe occupy the Catalan political agenda, without the fact that most of the citizens of Catalonia, the majority of the people of Catalonia have a special interest or have an excessive interest in those themes. It is obvious the counterposition I am making, no one escapes, between the fact that, many years ago we in Catalonia talk, every day, about the question of the relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, about the question of whether Catalonia should become an independent state, on the margin of Spain and the European Union, the identity debate... I believe that all this, which has an interest in a part of Catalonia's citizenship, very respectable, is not one of the problems that primarily concern Catalonia's citizens. Corruption and the past are the problems that most of the citizens of Spain are concerned about, and, concretely, I think we cannot detract, I think it cannot be said that the citizens of Catalonia are free of this concern or have less concern for the corruption that affects our institutions, which affects our political system. It is true that there is a curious detail, that the Centre d'Etudes d'Opinion, unlike the CIS, makes a couple of years that has stopped asking the citizen of Catalonia about the concern for corruption. I believe that this is a detail, if not, symptomatic of how corruption has, in Catalonia, had a point of willingness to silence the discrepancy, or silence the complainant; silence all those who denounced corruption in an open and unbuttoned manner. That's right, the CEO, of questions about whether we want to be an independent state, about whether we want to be a federated state, about whether we want to be a confederal state or an imaginary republic, you ask yourself cabassos; but, about corruption, you don't really talk about it. Well, according to data from the International Transparency Organization and the General Council of the Judiciary, Catalonia led, between July 2015 and September 2016, the gathering of autonomous communities with more defendants and accused of corruption cases, with 303 people, to the expectation of trial or in the stage of investigation. This fact supposes that the Catalans, the conjunction of the citizens of Catalonia, our autonomous community, survives with the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain; it doubles the second, that it is Andalusia, in this case, with 153 cases of corruption, with persons prosecuted and accused for cases of corruption, and, I think it is important, and I want to hold this given, because here, the main problem that I believe we have encountered in Catalonia, as regards corruption, is cophoism, excess self-compliance. It's a criticism I make of her as a deputy from Ciutadans, but I make her, too, as a citizen of Catalonia. Cophoism makes us small, makes us... prevents us from progressing. To consider that everything we do is fine, that everything that happens in Catalonia is fantastic and is, above all, better than what happens to the rest of Spain, is one of the great things, one of the great things that we have in our political life. I remember one day when the inclect Salvador Cardús, a member of the former Council Counsellor for the National Transition, one of the "siringuitos that the former Government has raised, that has now been replaced by others and, therefore, for this reason it does not need to suffer, said, literally, that: "Corruption is a consequence of Catalonia's espanyolitization of the last decades. Man, I see that Catalonia is the territory, it is the autonomous community with the most cases, with the most lawsuits and accused of corruption, it seems that this espanyolitization has been flattering and enthusiastic; unfortunately, only for that painful. I believe that, from this point of view, I would say that self-contribution has caused great problems in Catalonia. To think that corruption in Catalonia is a problem of Spain, it is a problem that imposes forces on us outside, it is really a surrealist approach, which is almost pathological. Catalonia has ruled for almost thirty years, from the forty years that it has been since the advent of democracy in Spain, a party that is the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia; now the PDECAT, but that, in short, is the Convergence of all life, the party of the 3_per_cent. That, of course, a few weeks ago we heard the news that was expelled from the Liberal Party of Europe, from ALDE, precisely because of its corrupt practices that ALDE has considered to be literally incompatible with the values and principles of the party. Today, precisely, the European Congress of ALDE is being held in Madrid, and Convergence will not be there. It will not be because of its irresponsibility for corruption; it will not be because of its wisdom, considering that..., what it said before, that corruption was a thing of the Spaniards, as if it had nothing to do with us, concretely with the Catalans. And it will not be, in the end, because of this opposition between the European liberal project and its corrupt and patrimonial plans of the institutions. As well as the importance of the problem of corruption, this Parliament has not yet approved a law against corruption and the protection of whistleblowers as we are discussing today. It is a law that, obviously, we will not vote on today, it will not be approved today, but it is a law that could have perfectly approved the last legislature, when Ciutadans introduced it. Citizens presented their law, and, in fact, the rest of the parliamentary forces, carried from Ciutadan and the People's Party, made another law that, I think, can be perfectly conjuminable, can be perfectly compatible, and I think that on this, there should be a debate that you allow us to pull forward an essential law. A law that is needed, that has already taken a lot, but in any case, it is never late when up. I believe that we are still in time to do, among all the folds, because I also confess to them that, after so much chasm, after so much division, after so many speeches slowed down during these years, at the beginning of the process, I have to do something, among all folds, that is worth it, that interests the citizens together. And corruption, indeed, is a concern of the conjunction of the citizens of Catalonia. From Ciutadans, we have long denounced that nationalism has given priority to questions that are not, nor are they good, priorities for the majority of Catalans. One of these is corruption. But, I think that corruption is not completely disconnected from nationalism, because precisely the institutional patrimony with which Catalan nationalism has governed Catalonia, has caused some people to have to say or denounce what were corrupt practices that come from many years ago. The fact that someone can point out to you as « ancient, for the sake of saying that in Catalonia, the Government of Catalonia has corrupt practices, when we speak of three_per_cent..., has caused there to be a omerty that has actually been..., makes it hurt to think that Catalonia may have had this willingness to silence the citizens or the functioning of which may have denounced these cases of corruption. From this point of view, I want to remember a scene, an episode that was produced in this Parliament, not so many years ago. It was, I think, in February 2005 when the President of the General Assembly, Pasqual Maragall, said, referring to the opposition student, Arthur Mas, said to him: "You have a problem, and this problem is said to be three_per_cent. At that time, I was a young man who had just finished the journalism career, or was finishing, I was sorry, the journalism career and, really, I was very interested in the public thing, I was very interested in the political question, and it made me genuinely ashamed, like the city of Catalonia, to see the spectacle that was produced in this Parliament, when a president of the Generality gave what he gave, and the head of the opposition imposed him, he committed to withdraw that statement, if he did not want you to withdraw his support in a political question that he had to see with his interests. A political question that, for me, had a nationalist connotation. But in any case, we will not now assess whether the State has a will to continue advancing in this confrontation with the rest of Spain. No, I won't go into this, but what I'm saying is that when a opposition party forces the government party to withdraw a few words, because, if not, it will withdraw its support on such an important issue, it shows, therefore, that the omerta, unfortunately, had taken over Catalonia. Beyond what I mentioned earlier, about Mr Cardus, former member of the National Transitional Adviser, about the fact that corruption in Catalonia was the fault of the Spaniards, which is something I have heard say for various policies in Catalonia; I also want to remember a video that I found these days, when I was preparing this intervention, which seems paradigmatic to me and which, in fact, does not have a lost, it is priceless, it is a jewel. This is a 1991 video, in which President Pujol, in an interview with Antena 3 says, literally – thanks really to remind you – that "corruption is the fault of the Spanish picaresca. And now some of us explain why, a few years ago, they had named him "Spanish of the Year, because effectively, as corrupt..., if corruption really is a matter of picaresque, he knew a child. Citizens came to political life, precisely, to end corrupt practices. He came to political life for other things, it's true; many times, from this Parliament he said we arrived..., some pretend to say it, to end the Catalan language. No, no..., on the contrary; we have come to an end with the nationalist hegemony that the ugly one was to generate an omerty on different questions: on the corruption of Convergence, on the fact that many citizens of Catalonia plant that the education system, the language system that exists in our school, has to be a multilingual system, a system that, if not, respects the bilingualism of Catalan society, and, in the best of cases, trilingualism, without wishing to harm or anorrelate the Catalan language. It is something that I believe the citizens' deputies are constantly demonstrating, in our day to day, in our private conversations, in our public life, and I believe that we must start to clarify things. Citizens were born, precisely, to end the corruption of all kinds that has occurred in Catalonia during all these years. And that the nationalist omerty has tried to cover up and has tried to prevent this debate from being a little more porous and a little more open. Anyway, that day that... that day you fought, you shamed, that Arthur Mas demanded from the President of the Generality that you withdraw his words, you asked him to prove it, Mr. Mas. Well, the tests took a long time to arrive, but they arrived: thirteen years later, Catalonia's Democratic Convergence was condemned for the Palau case, to pay 6,6_million euros, for having profited through irregular commissions, in the case of the Palau de la Música. And now, one year later, not yet, Democratic Convergence has been expelled by corruption, from the Party of European Liberals, as it used to be. In any case, I am convinced that the citizens of Catalonia, or that many citizens of Catalonia, share the shame that I and many of us shared in that February 2005 parliamentary session. And I think that, with this proposal of law, together with everything that can come, of the proposal, of the rest of the forces, that we are absolutely open to lay out ideas, to speak in ponència, to speak in committee, to make a law, that is one of the laws that really interest the citizen of Catalonia. Returning to this debate, yes indeed, there are many things that interest the citizens of Catalonia that have remained absolutely covered and trays of the public debate in Catalonia for the will to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain. This law we are bringing here to the Parliament of Catalonia is an anti-corruption law, but it is also – and for me, above all – a law protecting whistleblowers. That is to say, you have as your objective to fill in the work that our employees do, that our employees do, that our secretaries do, that it is a fundamental work to guarantee the quality of our institutions, of our institutional life and, ultimately, of our democracy. Because when we have at the top of our political power... that not all of us, it's obvious; I think that here we have to make a call to appreciate the activity of those policies that honestly do things, with clarity, in an absolutely regulated way and without trying to subvert the law. It is true that there has been a tendency, a practice quite extensive in Catalonia and in Spain's conjunction to try to pass, therefore, the regulations, the law, all that I want to see with legality..., when, for example, questions such as public contract, which has made you work see on many occasions in really uncomfortable situations... You will function that denounce corrupt practices are authentic, and I believe that it is the time to put your honor, your honesty, your courage, when you have to denounce cases in which you know positively that with this complaint you can see at least that you live in truth, in the rest of your life, in the very end of your profession, and in the very end of your life, in the very beginning of your life, in the very end of your profession. I believe that from this point of view we are ahead of an important opportunity to present to the citizen of Catalonia the idea that the Members of this Parliament are able to reach agreements to do important things all folds, « to do something together, what Ortega and Gasset would say. There is, of course, one last element that I want to mention, which is the Greek report of the Council of Europe, which these days has been mentioned a lot by some Members of the majority of the nationalist parliament, and even by its syndicate, the heavyweight syndicate – and its saying because it defended only and exclusively the interests of the parties and citizens defending the separatist cause. This Greek report by the Council of Europe must be read very deeply. It is a report that I, like Spanish, tell you that makes a follow-up of criticisms of our country that needs to be taken into account, that we need to be self-critical, that we cannot think that Spanish democracy works perfectly; it is obvious that there are criticisms. We are told that from the last report, from the previous report, Spain has not made the dues, but, in change, I want to remember one thing: the Greek report quotes textually the agreement of the legislature, the agreement of the investiture to which Ciutadans came with Pedro Sánchez, which was not finally re-elected, our measures against corruption, for example, for which it makes the appointment of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, which must be strictly for justice: the judges and magistrates who conform to the Spanish judiciary must appoint the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. These are recommendations in which this Greek report puts our proposal precisely into value. But say one thing that is very important that I want to remind all the members of the separatist bench...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.3.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.4.0	... – deu_secons –: that there is no doubt about the high quality of the Spanish judicial and criminal system or the strong vocation of public service and dedication of Spanish courts. So those who claim that Spanish democracy is an unacceptable democracy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.5.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.6.0	...or low-quality, I think they should start replanting their plantings. Thank you, honourable Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Proposal for a comprehensive protection law for alerters in the jurisdiction of the Generality (debate of totality)]] [[202-00022/12]] It is now the return of the rest of the proposed parliamentary groups, in this case with a maximum of two minutes for each group. And the first is the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units; has the words of Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.8.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, listening to Mr Martín, I have the impression or I have the impression and I have the feeling that, if we are not able, to address the debate on this law, from the political situation that the country has seen and that it has experienced in the last few days, we will not succeed in making a law on legal technology following the central objective, because what we are playing as a society is a lot, huh? Because transparency, the participation of citizens is part of the evolution and challenges of the democracies of this century, of the 21st century. Because, it is true, corruption is a difficult problem that can be faced decisively in democratic systems, because it damages institutions, public services, economic growth, competitiveness of countries... And, therefore, the work we do today in the Parliament of Catalonia is important. They are not winged, winged or alone jobs that we are taking up here, they are jobs that are running at these times and will run in parallel with the new European directive that is being discussed at these times, and also a law that is being discussed at the Congress of Deputies that has the objective of protecting whistleblowers or whistleblowers from corruption. I believe that this is the central objective of this law; do not take a rest from the political situation of the country, which probably explains some things, but what it is about this law and what we are here for is just to protect the alerters. Because protecting alerters is to guarantee, from our point of view, freedom of expression, for one thing, and freedom of information; it is, in short, to respect democracy. We are convinced that safeguarding confidentiality will have to help establish more effective channels for reporting cases of corruption, irregularities, fraud... And, therefore, effective protection, from a legal point of view, of whistleblowers, of whistleblowers, can facilitate detection – we are convinced that this will be so – of misappropriation of entire publics. We therefore need to establish guarantees for workers, not only in the public sector – not just in the public sector. We have two laws or two proposals for law that will be discussed in parallel. There's one that's more unique, that's that we've introduced various parliamentary groups, because it's more than protecting the alerters that are only in the public sector; we're trying to protect the conjunct of alterators, so... And so what we're saying is that workers and workers who are in the private sector and even entities or platforms can give knowledge of irregularities or practical ills of what are witnesses, without this behavior of any kind of repression on the part of public or economic powers, huh? And we have to be aware, Members and Members, that today in many cases the complainants are subject to reprisals, intimidation or pressure to make it difficult or to prevent them from filing a complaint, or to discourage them from doing so, huh? Or punish them for doing it, because we've seen everything these past years, haven't we? And, therefore, we should conclude that at these times the position of the workers, the workers... are in a weaker position than the occupants, who can exercise forms of pressure. And especially in our country, in the Spanish State; also in Catalonia. Spain is the only country at this time in the OECD that does not effectively protect the victims of possible corruption. Often the concern has been expressed that the complainants are victims of hostility, intimidation or placement at the workplace, or even difficulties in finding a new workplace if this complaint has come from some worker or worker who is in a private connected company or who is serving in the public sector, and even if there has been pressure from family members in the form of threats. And what's happened and what's happened can have a disheartening effect on this situation, right? , to put black on white some of the irregularities that can be produced in public administrations. In fact, the law of which it should be able is to establish adequate channels of alerting and protection, because it serves better, these channels, to protect people who report irregular acts, to protect not only alerters, but also, above all, public interests and citizens, because we are also talking about this, right? It is therefore clear from our intervention that for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance protection it is not possible to hear, I repeat, only public workers. This protection must also be extended to groups of people, especially to citizens' plataforms and journalists, to ensure that there are no reprisals. Actually, we have a paradigmatic case, don't we? , that of the president of the autonomous community of Madrid, in which he wanted to make the journalist who denounced the facts and the media who denounced these irregular conducts look guilty. So, we're gonna have to make sure the paraigua opens up for everyone, huh? , in the cases that are occupied by us. We also need to ensure that the mechanisms are balanced. What do I mean, with this? What must be guaranteed is the protection of whistleblowers, whistleblowers, but it must also be guaranteed compliance with the legal rights of the persons against whom it is informed; we should also be able to guarantee this in this debate that we start today, right? We also need to make sure that the complaint channels are clear. I mean, the simpler the way you act, the clearer the operation is, the better for everyone. It will be necessary to analyze and seek solutions, the most appropriate, so that these channels are clear, because it is possible to protect alerters or alerters, especially in smaller administrative units or smaller administrations. And in this case, what I'm talking about is the local administration, because in the country we have a lot of big joints, but we have smaller joints, huh? If we don't set up the channels properly, if we don't set up the operation properly, we might be able to encourage people to report irregular acts for reprisals. And, speaking of reprisals, we should also be able to make proposals to criminalise and punish clearly if this rule of confidentiality is breached and there are reprisals that respect the alerters and alerters. Finally, I would like to thank the work done by the Xnet platform, which included, among other things, the presentation by various parliamentary groups of a bill and, therefore, to induce the debate that will have to lead to the approval of this rule. It is obvious that we have two texts to discuss, which are discussed in parallel, and I hope that we will follow the lines, I repeat, of abstaining from the political situation that the country has seen, of obvious confrontation, of taking and of being able to approve a law that from a legal point of view remains technically strong for the objective that we intend, that is to protect the alerters and alerters in those cases of possible corruption by members of the Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs Susana Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.10.0	Well, good morning. Members, Members, Presidency, the Bureau, today is one of those days that I am particularly proud to be here, in this Parliament, not only as representing the people who voted for it, but also to be part of the parliamentary groups that help to make possible the processing and approval of a legislative initiative that does not come from these groups of Members and Members, but also comes, once again, from organised civil society. Like the guaranteed income of the citizenry ILP or the 24/2015, it is the organised civil society that makes this Parliament advance in key aspects for our democratic salvation, in our deure to guarantee a more dignified life for Catalans and Catalans. In this case, and speaking of a law that will entail a key change in the fight against corruption in Catalonia, we need to recognize the work, the expert and the compromise of the Xnet network, one of the references to our country and the world in the fight against corruption; Xnet, which also promoted and starred in campaigns and exemplary cases, such as 15MpaRato, and which raised all the corruption of the Bankia case. I insist, we here are basically channelers of a citizen initiative. The task that this law will work will have to be done in accordance with the experience, the objectives and the rights that characterise this proposal for a citizen's law of initiative. We greet Xnet's companies and expect them to continue accompanying us, assuring us and demanding us throughout the process of drafting and approving this law as Members of Parliament; we expect to be at the height of what we are asking for. The proposed law for the full protection of corruption alerts will be a key piece to ensure the protection of persons who bravely and at risk of their work, their freedom and sometimes their life too decide to denounce the abuses and corruption cases of which they are witnesses, taking a step ahead of institutions, political parties and often the judicial system in the fight against corruption and in the defence of a healthier and fairer democracy. As for example, Hervé Falciani, who, with more than a hundred_ thousand names and data reported on possible tax evaders with accounts to a Swiss bank, made this alert in evidence. To do so, he had to flee from Switzerland, where he is persecuted for justice, and resides here in Spain. Falciani was in prison for six months in 2012 in Madrid, until Spain's justice denied his extradition. But last April he was arrested again after Switzerland issued an international arrest warrant, after having sentenced him, in absentia, to five years in prison. He's back in freedom and he's still in our state fighting corruption. To protect people like Hervé Falciani is that we do not give in this Parliament this citizens' legislative initiative in the form of a bill. It has already been said that corruption is the second most important concern after the time between our citizens, but I would like to say to our citizens that the fact that this concern does not mean that other things stop worrying, and that freedoms and rights go much further beyond the time and concern for corruption. So, I don't think it's appropriate to make a hierarchy of concerns, because there's a lot of citizens here too worried about who is the state of freedom and rights in Catalonia and the rest of the state, and who is the judicial system that has to guarantee them, and we just need to get back to the last actions the judiciary has done. Corruption is a first-degree political problem, because it is a symptom of the moral and social degradation that can reach a society when the political representatives often behave like an aristocracy. It does not respect legal and democratic standards, it uses institutions as if they were private assets; favors are the guarantors of privileges, masters, approved courses, influence movements. Corruption is a perverse form of social inequality. Machiable said that corruption was the naivety of society's inequality, and a rule where 1_per_cent accumulates the same wealth that 70_per_cent is a potentially corrupt rule. Inequality puts our democracy in question. Spain has been able to make out a responsible civil government in a creative..., lucrative – and creative, too – of one of the pitjors plots of corruption. The motion of censure, a motion of decency, has opened a stage of democratic regeneration and civic transparency, despite the People's Party and Citizens, which in this case did not have so many ways of corruption, because it voted against the motion of censure. No one can escape that democratic hygiene in Moncloa would not have been possible without the denunciation of an alerter that made it possible to unravel the Gürtel case. Citizens, indeed, have proposed a law to the Congress, and now the proposal to the Parliament, but do not protect or guarantee legal certainty at all to this type of citizenry. Ciutadans' proposal is a proposal that does not value the role of the citizenry in order to put a stop to corruption and that "noone, who does not protect it, who does not take it, when, according to Xnet's own companies, 70_percent of corruption cases do not untangle institutions but people. Nor can we forget that we live in Catalonia in a country with two-hundred investigations per corruption, 161 cases of urban corruption and about 25,000_million euros of tax fraud; a country with shameful cases such as Palau, 3_per_cent, ITV, Mercuri, Pretòria, cases of corruption where some of the parties that support this law proposal have been directly involved, some with a change of name included, in order to try to make it appear that they are not themselves. We wait to see, at the length of this process, if their commitment to the fight against corruption really leads them to prepare and think mechanisms that prevent their policies from returning to what they have done so far. Thanks to citizen entities such as Xnet and to the actions of the joint ventures, joint ventures such as Barcelona, such as València, such as Madrid, it has been possible to promote from among the institutions a new political ethic, with new tools. And now, yes, I will also talk about the Barcelona Assembly, which is already being done. Barcelona has been considered one of Spain's most transparent cities, according to three external indicators. The compromise in the fight against systemic corruption has led the Barcelona Assembly to implement these years of measures which also entail a prior and a subsequent, and which cannot be changed. For a band, the creation of the Office for Transparency and Good Practices, which has deployed innovative public policies in the field of democratic regeneration: the implementation of the Ethics and Good Governance Office, a digital tool cooked on slow fire also with the Xnet collection and working on rape with the Municipal Institute of Information to protect the complainant but also the denounced, with about five hundred complaints rejected through the Ethics Office, of which 126 are being investigated and valued for the viability of 126 months, and with the creation of an ethics committee and an advisory board for transparency. The assemblies have begun a change in the country's political culture, which we now want to make and remain binding throughout Catalonia and also for the Government of Catalonia. So let's start the debate on these two proposals of law, one, as it was said, already presented for the Ciutadans Group, and that's like the one he already presented to the Congress of Deputies. We want to lay down at least three problematic aspects of this proposal of law that we hope we can work at the length of the work of the ponència. For a band, the lack of basic legal guarantees in the operation of the proposed autonomous body; can order escorts, interrogations without judicial warrant. The protection of the accused is reduced – as previously mentioned – to the group of civil servants and public workers, leaving the vast majority of whistleblowers and whistleblowers exposed and unprotected. The prohibition of anonymous denunciation contradicts the one recommended by the Spanish prosecution and international treaties. In contrast to this proposal by Ciutadans, which presents Xnet with the support of five parliamentary groups, and which precisely sets out an integral protection of the alarm, without distinctions. Certainly, a detail: of the seven groups in this chamber, if we are somehow involved in these two propositions of law; if of set. Guess which parliamentary group isn't up to these two initiatives, because maybe they're more talking to Mr. Villarejo than they're talking about law enforcement against whistleblowers. [[Greetings.]] This proposal is clearly aimed at protecting the alerter, all alerting persons, whether it is working or not, to ensure the complainant's anonymity, but also to protect the anonymity of the complaint until it is properly investigated; for the rigour of data processing and information; to guarantee free legal assistance as a guarantee in case of legal action for making the alert and the complaint; for many other mechanisms and guarantees of protection to citizens that are direct or indirect witnesses of corruption cases, and that, thanks to this law, will find the way and facilities to report it without reprisals. With this proposal of the citizen law this Parliament has the opportunity to mark a before and after in the fight against corruption in Catalonia. I hope we're on the rise and take the repte. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms. Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.12.0	Well, we've got half the time that the other groups so I'll try to be very quick. And, first of all, we want to put into value the work done by the organised society and, in particular, the work done by Xnet in the elaboration of the law we are debating today. That Citizens compare independence with corruption and put it all in the same bag, so we cannot accept it, because corruption forms part of the system and is implicit in capitalism and exercises it the riches here and there that enrich thanks to the poor working class. And you, Citizens, defend the most regulated version of capitalism and, therefore, the one that most works the doors to corruption, and we show them with examples. For example, ask 'hia the Logronyo ex-register and the Ciutadans ex-treasure; ask 'hial PSOE with the Filesa case; to Esquerra or Initiative or PSC with Innova; to Convergence with the Palau case; to Esquerra Unita with the black targets or to PP, for example with Gürtel. The constant news of the proceedings of ex-presidents, ex-advisors, ministers and other officials shows that corruption is not an ailing fact. It's not a rotten apple in a cyst but it's a structural fact in our society and it's the stinking cyst that's rotten. For the CUP - Cry They constitute the fight against corruption has been, it will be a pillar in our political pocket. In this sense and aware of the limitation to address corruption with the tools of some institutions thought precisely to defend this system, the CUP we have worked beyond the institutional realm of the hand of the citizenry organization that fights against this reality. A reality that, of course, enjoys full impunity. We did so with the publication, for example, of the book Llums and stenographers, in which Xnet also collaborated. For another group, and in the institutional sphere, we have uncovered various cases of corruption such as the Innova case, the Mercuri case and since we have had the presence of Parliament we have presided over two committees dealing with this issue. At the present legislature we chaired the Commission of Inquiry into Frau and Tax Evasion and Practices of Political Corruption and at the eleventh legislature we assumed the chairmanship of the Commission of Study of Measures to Fight Corruption. And it is precisely in this committee that certain conditions were established and the obligation to regulate that all public institutions have a secure complaint channel that guarantees the identity reserve of the alerting person in case it is identified. And, therefore, it is a matter of the existence and functioning of these channels favoring the revelation of irregular situations, which otherwise would continue to be hidden, and allowing the institution to manage the correction of the irregularities raised. There was also a need to establish protective mechanisms to ensure a safe alternative to silence, among other risks of corruption, on the table. The law that opens the debate today and responds precisely to these needs and needs, as Mrs Segovia has already said, directly from civil society. And, in fact, we would like to point out again that this proposal comes from the work that Xnet has done for more than four years to create one of the laws protecting the world's most advanced alerters. And now it's up to us to work on it, approve it and make it effective. To denounce abuses, as Xnet says, should not be a heroic act, should be normality. A normality so assumed that its deterrent effect would make it almost unnecessary. And, therefore, we want to work now because this law is, as soon as possible, a reality, because we are already being warned by the companies that have brought this law to this Parliament that 70 per cent of corruption cases do not expose them to the institutions in charge, but they do people. People who, as long as they report and are essential to making these complaints, finally end up with the problem that they end up patenting reprisals and persecutions for reporting a situation that affects us all. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.14.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, therefore, we are here again in this case to talk about corruption, of a legislative measure, say so, in this case for the alerter, but today I can't start without referring and keeping a record for the Speaker of Parliament, Carmel Forcadell, who was a first time in prison just today. A European democratic shame to hold the president of a democratic parliament, such as the català, in prison simply for allowing debate and for allowing the groups to present their legislative initiatives. This is not a normal situation and from here too the maximum affection, personal scalpel to President Carme Forcadell. [[Greetings.]] And let me also remind another person, and in the concrete case of what we are talking about, that it is Deputy Lluís Corominas, Vice-President of the Bureau of Parliament, with whom all the last legislature we were working intensively on the measures for which it does the Law of Transparency, the Commission against Corruption and many measures, therefore, to fight against corruption. And today, Mr. Lluís Corominas, also thanks to the prosecution, faces a fine and faces a year and eight months of disability, like much more of the other members of this chamber, simply for having done politics. One situation, I insist, is not normal. That said, we are already entering into the two proposals of law that we are debating today. And leave me a driver maybe making a point of historical context, right? , because in the first intervention it seems that here a deputy, who is who he is – and that I am not saying with any contempt–, it seems that he starts, and that here there is omerty and that we have covered all of us and I don't know what, but it is that, listen to me, five years ago there have been commissions to study corruption and that they have put concrete measures to counter, say, the difficult situation – that I shared the diagnosis – that we had. First it was in the 12-15 legislature, with a committee that had a longer name but ended up saying "the Pujol case – even though it had a longer name – or the year passed with the Committee on Measures against Corruption and for Democratic Regeneration". A committee, of course, where there was Mr Espinosa, who made some great conclusions with, I mean, I don't know how many proposals, but I think I remember that they were two-hundred or more, even so, right? , and from which are deployed a great many of the tasks that need to be done with the country. And it's that we're lucky, it's that with the country we've, by luck, put the batteries on this assumption, and it's been a long time since we've worked. And here we don't have to think that all thanks to us and that, in fact, the rest don't want to do anything. No, no, it's the opposite – it's the opposite – we've been working on it for a long time. And it's the opposite, because, for example, you, Mr. Martín, of course, have missed a very important part, right? In fact, now we are on the anniversary, precisely, of the two years of the Antifrau Office, a pioneering institution, that the first one that was created was to...? Catalonia; no other place in the Spanish State, no other autonomous community. No, no, it was Catalonia. It's been years since he set up an office just to fight corruption and fraud. You said: "No, the CEO has removed the question about corruption. Well, of course, it's that Catalonia is the only place where we make a concrete barometer just for corruption – just. And, in fact, you'll have the occasion here at a_month to review the conclusions of the barometer that the CEO does together with the Anti-Fraud Office and to do the detailed analysis, because by fate we make a report, a barometer, excluded by this problem, because look if we don't want to just follow a question in the general barometers, but we make a report, a specific barometer for corruption. So, you can say, "Well, yes, no..., and we do a little bit of tide, but it's, of course, that's the opposite, that we're the only place where we make a specific barometer to analyze problems that respect corruption. Or the anonymous asset, which you have not spoken about, and here, in the last few years, the Antifrau Office has opened an anonymous asset or, it must be said, the Barcelona Assembly, and in a pioneering way, therefore, we have also done so, such as, for example, the more advanced territories or administrations, precisely to reverse these..., in other words, to reverse corruption and to ask for measures so that it cannot be applied. And there'd be a lot more, huh? We could talk, for example, about the law of transparency that made this chamber, and what it is – and said also in the Congress of Deputies, eh? – of the most advanced laws that existed in the Spanish State by no means, and in Europe, at that time. We could talk about the lobby register of the Parliament, also a pioneer in the Spanish State, and that we have, and that certainly in his day Ciutadans was not very much in favour, or even of public agendas, which, certainly, Ciutadans was not very much in favour, when we implemented them, and now, therefore, by luck, all the Members, say, we have to make or publish our agendas. So he's done a lot of work. And I won't go in, say, because it was born Citizens or not, I don't know; I understand it, I believe it, but I'm sure we have very different visions. I think it is, that actually to blow up linguistic immersion and against català, but it is the same. But in any case the experience... I say, like the birth is very far away, it's the same because they were born, I trust it and I think what you said. But the experience is that they were born or raised or lived, rather than born, to sustain power. Because you now say, "Oh, here in Catalonia, etc., the Pujol, the 3_per_cent, all this... And it's true, and that's why the Catalonian Parliament stood there, but very seriously, but while you were giving support to Mr Rajoy, without going off – without going off – when you were voting against the motion of censure because M. Rajoy follows – as President of the Government after the escandol of the Gürtel case and the Barcenas case, while you were so influential in the Spanish State, so influential in the Spanish State that you made this Alice to the country of wonders, so it turns out that the Greek report – which I think you read because you did not mention – says that Spain did not apply any measure, totally. Captain. Zero. While you were so influential and worked so hard for regeneration, the Spanish State has taken zero measures, in total, of what was referred to in the Greek report. Or we could enter into international transparency, which just respects the perception in corruption the worst result of the history of the entire historical sequence is when you have been so influential in the Government of the State supporting Mr. Rajoy. All right, that's what we got. Now, it's true that citizens go here to Parliament to take measurements, say, if I may say so, maybe a cosmetic point, right? Because you were just talking about the law that was introduced by the last legislature and saying, "It could have been approved by the last legislature. So, miri, no. So, look, no, because the law you presented, which was to fight all corruption, the alerters, everything, everything, had five articles, one page; to fix everything, you see. So, what you're doing is, so that's some cosmetic measures that I suppose they serve them in some areas, I don't know, but in any case, if we want to work, say, in a more or less rigorous way, that doesn't really work. And we don't need your proposal from the law, and Mr Terrades has said so, and Mrs Segovia has also said so, and so have those who preceded me in the use of the word, because we believe that it should not only be in the public sector; because you do not defend it in a clear way, nor anonymity; because you make a very big barrier between..., they use, in fact, the term "denouncing", which could be confused with the term "denouncing the law", and they don't speak of "warmers", which is a concept that is widely being used at European level, but which is also used here, right? Or, even so, in his day there was the problem with the lists of whistleblowers. I want to remind you that, in fact, it was against your law proposal that a campaign was made on behalf of civil society, which has been fighting corruption for a long time, which I said to you: «Stasi returns. These were the conclusions made by civil society respecting its proposed law to reverse corruption and protect whistleblowers. Therefore, we present today, together with five parliamentary groups in the chamber, a proposal for the law, for which I would like to thank Simona Levi very sincerely, who will accompany us. And to whom I give the welcome to Parliament for its tenacity, for its work and for all the work we have done, because, as I said, we already have a few years of work and a few years of legislation, and we have a lot of time, so, working on this law, which we started to do last year's legislation, which ended... you know, and I won't go in there, so don't say that we're just talking about a single subject. No, no, You've talked a lot about it. I'll talk about "warmers," which I think we'll get back to. And that we've been working on it, that we've improved it, say, this year, and that we've come back to introduce. And that we are now opening up the ponència, and among all those sure that we can make contributions, better, and finish fixing what may not be good enough, sure, but that it is an intense work, work with civil society, work with Xnet, work with Simona, and that we feel very proud of it, because among all that we have to do is just to seek consensus, it is just to work folded and to impose measures against corruption, which is what citizenship is asking us to do. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Ms Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.16.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. Thank you, President Torrent. We can't make it look like we're living in a normal situation. There have been reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State claims more than two hundred years in prison. That's why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. We won't give up. Today we are here to discuss these two proposals of law, one presented for Citizens and the other presented for the rest of the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the PP, which stems from the initiative of Xnet and which with us, then Simona Levi made contact, so she had all the empathy and the ability to work and to pull it forward. The truth is that I was here to say hello... and I also wanted to say hello to Jordi Foz, Secretary General of Transparency. The truth is that when I was to defend this law proposal, my discussion was "what debate will you make, more political, more technical... And the truth is, I think that the repte we have is so important that I think more than the discussions and feeling that nationalism... and corruption... I think the repte is pretty important because we're doing a technical debate and we're doing a good law. Therefore, all the ability to work because these two laws – especially I believe that what we propose is more suited to the directive being pushed, to the recommendations of the Council of Europe and is much more transversal and more comprehensive in terms of corruption –..., so we can improve it, giving thanks, thanking the work done for Simona. In this sense, I believe that today is important, because Parliament is backing up a legislative initiative that has been worked on since society. Many times, when we study laws or know them, it is difficult for legal operators to apply them, because they are girls from a theoretical point of view. And in this case we find ourselves with a proposal for law that arises from practice, and from practice it is much more possible to establish which are the limits, which is the perimeter, so that it is easy – and amenable – to apply for legal operators, and, above all, it is practical. What is the object of this law? Basically, therefore, provide comprehensive protection to alerters – alerters, men and women, therefore, "warning people, and avoid sexist language – who report irregularities or actions likely to cause harm to the general interest. This is about corruption. I was not, in the previous legislature, but I did see, therefore, the task that had been done, for example, by the President of the Commission for the Study of Measures to Combat Corruption and Democratic Regeneration, who was making a report, and that this law I believe continues and goes in the line of the report that had already exposed my companies. And, therefore, this law is part of this European directive, part of the recommendations of the Council of Europe. Therefore, we must protect all those people who know irregularities, and the law must give them the maximum legal coverage, from anonymity, which is understood to be the best protection. Why? Because these net institutions are important, this change, this transformation is important. You, Mr. Martín Blanco, quoted the barometer, didn't you? And my company, Gerard Gómez del Moral, was talking about this report that respected corruption. But it is that the public opinion barometer of 2018, the recent one, does refer to who are the concerns of Catalans, and, for example, the issue of corruption is posed, with a 6,5_per_cent. It is also true that when they refer to the problem of independence and self-government, it is situated in a 16th, and only overcomes the lack of work, the hard work. Or, for example, in the 2018 CIS barometer, corruption stands at 38.3_per_cent, between the first, second or third concern of all people living in the Spanish State. Therefore, do not say – as Deputy Gerard Gómez del Moral said – that the CEO does not pay attention to corruption, when there is a specific report, or that at the back, let's say..., the concern, in this matter that is done to citizens, is done..., and there is specifically. And also tell him, when he talks about nationalism... I don't know, he talked about some kind of question that we have the nationalists, the independenceists or... Listen, tell him that you gave support to President Rajoy, that you endured until the end and that the People's Party to which you gave support, and gave support until the end, is the party with more cases of corruption. So, this is what I wanted to do. What we want to do with these two laws is to work with them, including the principles of regulation and legislative technology that exist in Europe, the better regulation, which establishes which are the best legislative techniques so that legislative bodies can have the best application on the part of legal operators. That in the end it is what we are most concerned about, not making a law, but to the legal operators who have to apply it, so we put them as much as possible. Because, in the end, at the centre of which we are speaking, there is a phrase that says: "Denouncing an abuse must not be a heroic act. Many of us have found ourselves: when you want to denounce it is a heroic act; when you want to denounce an irregularity, there are silences, there is attitude, there are scandals..., and therefore this need is a real need of any person who works at the Administration, who has contact with the Administration, to protect... And I agree very much with the reference made by Congressman Terrades, because here we are to add and to build, that it is also very important to keep the map of what type of administration we have, and that it is very different a group with five working that a group with three hundred. And, therefore, we must be able to apply and make a law that gives this coverage to all the different types of public administration and to all the profile that we have. But here, too, I wanted to make two final remarks. The European Court of Human Rights has said that the protection of alerters is part of the right to freedom of expression, and here we are totally in agreement. But I would also like to make two considerations, which is that many times, and we have also seen it – and here we will not set examples, because we want to build –, also through anonymous complaints it is possible to make a political damage, many times. And on that pretext, right? , seeking to go against corruption is often in the same way that it is an administrative irregularity, that it can be solved and that it has its legal mechanisms of resolution, and that it is a criminal irregularity. And, therefore, here we have to establish mechanisms, as there are other laws, because the people they denounce, the alerters..., so there is good faith, there is no abuse and there is no unjustified political persecution. Because, besides, we are in a context of repression and so... we need to establish the maximum possible guarantees, without raising it to category. And second of all, they'd also like to make a point. We're going to assign this to you, and it's going to be as much of a transformer as possible. But here's Mr. Jordi Foz. The law of transparency of Catalonia was one of the most innovative laws and it went much further beyond the law of Spanish transparency. And you, MPs and MPs, will agree with me that there was a law, that there is an article in the Catalan Transparency Law, that there is also in other autonomous communities, that establishes that, in all those cases where citizens ask for information from the Administration, there is a term of a positive silence, right? And, therefore, you will say: "Listen, therefore it is very interesting that in a Catalan law – that it does not establish this positive silence of the Spanish law –, therefore, any citizen or citizen who asks for information within one month, if the Administration did not hold it, there has been a positive silence. You're positive. Was the Catalan law of transparency innovative? I do. The Spanish lion set it up? No, no, What happened to us? Judgement of 4 October of the Constitutional Court: declares that the positive silence of the law of transparency is unconstitutional. Therefore, here we find another time with a limit of the state autonomic configuration, which does not allow us to move forward – does not allow us to move forward. So, we're working on this alarm law. Why? Because when we say we're here to make Republican politics... I think fighting for transparent administrations, for ethical administrations, for administrations that are capable of holding back, will always find us there. But let's not forget the competitive limits that we have, because we, as Simona Levi said, are looking at Europe, we are looking at..., with the maximum guarantees that the European directive that is working on or the recommendations of the Council of Europe establishes. Therefore, we are for the republic, we believe that this is a clearly republican law. When we talk about making Republican politicians, this law, we think it's a good measure. We have the autonomous jurisdictional limits that we obviously do not share, and that, for example, in the law of transparency of Catalonia another time on October 4th, with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, we have chosen. But our ability to transform, our ability to be honest with this law..., we will try to work as closely as possible together, because the challenge we have to protect alerters and alerters and to ensure that administrations are clearly prioritized respects any other political consideration. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.175.0	[[Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. There's a word from Mr. Santi Rodriguez.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.176.0	[[Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we prepare the intervention in relation to these proposals of the law, from my group to say to me: "It brings the whole list of corruption cases that affect all the parties, so that the corruption cases that affect the PP with the will to get away and to get out. I resisted a lot. In the end, I took him to the hemicicles, but I left him in the bait. Because I think it's not this, the debate. The debate is not that "you have more corruption than the other, "the other has more corruption than you, "you do not have us, because, among other things, if you do not govern, it is difficult for you to finish having areas of influence in which there may be people who are tempted to commit corruption. Because, in the end, corruption is a feature that is often very inherent to people.]] [[But let me tell you something, and every one of you, then, take it as you wish. Do you know who the corruption cases that appear between the organization and which one belongs to are worse? Do you know who's hurt the corruption cases that may have occurred and that have occurred in the People's Party? There is no doubt about it: the thousands and thousands and thousands of people, the majority of them – the ones we have elected are few privileged –, those who unselfishly work with the will of hard to term a certain political project in which they believe they absolutely do not expect anything else to change. So you don't think that this corruption thing is a sport for anyone. And I'm convinced it's not for anyone; corruption is inherent in people.]] [[And, therefore, what we come here to do is to try and take steps to limit the possibility that corruption will eventually occur; and that, if it is given, it will be easier to attack these corruption cases with the maximum possible guarantees.]] [[And it is in this sense that these two propositions of law are presented, one from the City and another signed for all other groups. And why isn't there the PP? So this is the answer I expected from his interventions. Why isn't the PP? So that's why they didn't sign it. That's why I expected you to give me an answer why you're not at the PP on this bill of law.]] [[But as long as it goes, you've seen it, we haven't presented the whole thing, because we understand that the two purposes of it are voluntary. Ciutadan's is more voluntary, surely, than practical. The other one that is present, surely because it has, therefore, the support of the Xnet entity, is a proposition of law that, indeed, is complete force and that I think can be really useful, right?]] [[Certainly, Ciutadan is much more oriented towards protecting the jobs of people who can alert with regard to certain cases of corruption. The other, the joint of the other groups, I think it uses the broader concept or has the view centered on the broader concept of the complainant's anonymity, which, between which it means, also implies the protection of the citizens' place of work.]] [[Ciutadans focuses more on the public sector. The joint venture focuses not only on the public sector, but also on companies working for the public sector.]] [[And in this second proposal of the law also refers to a series of elements that we believe must actually form part of the alert system, such as establishing notification systems, such as establishing notification channels, such as determining who is also the role of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia in relation to alerters, on which are the obligations that respect these people and, ultimately, the protection that must be offered to all these people.]] [[Believe me, it didn't give me the feeling that we were before a law of a republic or of the republic, but I think it's the law of Catalonia and that in any case it will continue to feel the law of Catalonia. Each can put the adjectives you want, but the reality will be one: it will be a law of the community of Catalonia.]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.177.0	[[Thank you, Congressman.]] [[After the debate and taking into account that no papers have been submitted to the total of the two texts, these two initials follow their processing and, therefore, continue in their debate process.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into external action and transparency]] [[302-00021/12]] We follow the next point in the order of the day and enter the field of the motions. The twenty-four point is a motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into external action and transparency, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To defend it has the word deputy Ms Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.17.0	Thank you. I will explain another story to which you, the left side of the Chamber, are accustomed: what happened at international level in previous years, the months before the coup to democracy took place on 6 and 7 September 2017 and the DUI, the unilateral declarations of independence, which were approved in this Parliament by the independence forces in October? What happened? See, 2013, Diplocat and the Catalan delegation of the United States hired, with a lobby called Independent Diplomat, for an approximate value of 1,700,000_euros, a lobby that specializes in secession processes..., both Diplocat and the Catalan delegation of the United States hired this lobby. Since the last legislature, therefore, we've been asking for information about this lobby for almost three years – who did they talk to? What was that money for? Why don't we have the reports or what were the reports that this lobby specialized in secession processes with the Generalitat de Catalunya had? – and we have repeatedly been denied that information – so much so that we talked before the Catalan Transparency Act and all its virtues – all these years have been denying that information to us. Months prior to September 6 and 7, 2017, another lobby is hired, the American lobby SGR. That SGR lobby..., and also after insisting a lot and making several complaints in Parliament's Bureau, until in the end an independent transparency body was set up that gave us protection, and gave us protection on four occasions, and that implies the Government of the Generalitat's obligation to give us that information, they continue to deny that information, they still do not give us that information. In the end they give us some writings, because they are bound by the American Transparency Act of what they had to register in the United States, and in those writings, and after much insistence, it can be seen as the months..., not the months, the days before the coup to democracy of September 6 and 7 and the days after there were phone calls, there were mails, there were meetings with people who have names and surnames, which are published in that American transparency register, where congressmen were seen, with senators as relevant as Marco Rubio, with very, very important media and with all sorts of details. You, who presume so much of transparency..., I believe, comrades, that we would have to publish it: this is the American record of transparency. [[the speaker shows a full camera]] where there are days, meetings, etc., and this is what we asked of Diplocat [[the speaker shows another full]] international visitors, visits, dates, etc., and on less than half a page, huh? , give us the visits from 2014 to 2017, with a vagueness like: « seven journalists from European mitjans, 2014. This is the transparency of the Government of the Government of Catalonia [[the speaker shows the full paster again]] ; this is the transparency of the United States [[the speaker reshows the first full]] - No, no, no, We obviously want the transparency of the United States and the Catalan Government to apply it here. I mean, we think Diplocat was acting like a kind of tint; if not, why are they repeatedly denying us this information for years? No one here in this Parliament has passed to explain; they have not given the face to the citizens of what they were doing from 2013 to the present, because they continue to reiterate... And this is not external action; this is embezzling and very cowardly separatist action, because they do not come here to give the face to the citizens, to explain what they have done. [[applause]] and subject to Parliament's control. Counselor, Members, never again, this cannot be repeated, because it is extremely serious. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.18.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented has the word, first of all, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, through the deputy, Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.19.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members..., Member Beltrán, presents to us the Ciutadans Group a motion subsequent to the inquiry that he made on his day to the councillor that contained quite different elements. Therefore, I have already advanced that in some respects we can give support, in others they cannot count on the support of our group. Because in some respects it raises questions that they want to see, I believe, with transparency and with the facilitation of information to the Members and Members who request it, in this case, asking that it be made easier at the side of the chamber; in this we can not have any inconvenience, and less when your group – and you, as the Member, individually – has resigned from the Bureau of this Parliament with the requests for information you have made, or at least in some of them. After that, there is something you need to see that they are present, let's say, reports we could say of follow-up or execution or of complimenting the objectives of sustainable development, that we believe they must also facilitate the control task to the Government that this chamber must realize, and therefore we also agree. And then there are questions that you have to see – and this is a discussion that we have often had at the Foreign Affairs Committee – with the expected knowledge of the Foreign Affairs Council's agenda when it travels in their travels, so to speak, to interact with men or with entities, organizations of any kind. We think that this in many chambers is a common practice; it allows, moreover, that the councillor, that the department, know what is the general feeling of the chamber to address any interlocutor who tries to alienate it, and it seems to me that there may and should be some debate on that agenda that is to be moved and, even so, on the contents of the meetings if there are interesting fears about the country's side, and, therefore, it seems to me that it is also worth giving and supporting. But then there's a whole place where you plant is a solution, let's say, drastic, huh? It is as we think, and I think quite rightly, that, from the government of the current Government of Catalonia, it is a misuse of the institutional instruments at the disposal of the external action of the Government of Catalonia, so let us practice, let us say, mutilation, self-mutilation: as we do not like the use which in then, quite simply, does not have to open nine delegations, new offices abroad, then there is no instruments like the Diplocat, which are heirs of previous instruments that had made their tasks without, let us say, major political polemics. And it seems to us that this is an excessively drastic solution, let's just say. The terms of the comparison are, let us say, inaccurate or disproportionate, because the magnitude is of another order, but in the background it is we who withdraw it to the conjunction of independence when you say: "We have an institutional framework, a framework of coexistence in Spain that does not satisfy us, that we think that in the minority, that we think that it does not represent the interests – believe them–" of most Catalans, or at least so they perceive, and, therefore, we have to moor, secession is the only solution available. And we don't share that opinion either. Therefore, it seems excessively drastic to me. Now, what they're reporting is true. That is to say, there has been for many years a confusion of the conjunct of the nationalist world in Catalonia – certainly, a characteristic that I believe they share with all nationalisms, also with Spanish nationalism – a tendency to confuse party, institution, country, sometimes even with a direct identification between certain nationalist leaders and the same country, right? , which is absolutely contrary, from the outset, to the republican principles that they claim to defend, and, certainly, to the democratic principles. Because if delegations abroad, and if Diplomat – well, Diplomat would be more questionable, because there is a participation of the Generality, but there are also private, etcetera, right? – But if the delegations abroad are part of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, then, let's say, the neutrality of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia is an obvious requirement, the principle of institutional loyalty is also obvious, the principle of pluralism is also true, and it does not seem to me that demonstrations like those of the President said that "these offices are now dedicated to internationalizing the political cause of Catalonia are compatible with all these principles, which are certainly also contained in the State, also in the Law of External Action of Catalonia, and that there is no compliment. Because, of course, you identify Catalonia's political cause with its political cause. And it's true that they have a majority parliament that allows them to access the government, but they can't make their political cause the country's general cause. And that's what we're holding them back and what, from our parliamentary opposition pocket, we demand is what you do...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.20.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.21.0	... – I finish – but without need to dispense with the institutional instruments that are necessary for the country's conjunction.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.22.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs Susanna Segovia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.23.0	Thank you very much. MPs, MPs..., although I had many hopes of dealing with this young man, because he said that he was talking about external action and transparency, what a great deal he was talking about all the less external action and transparency, as usual, that concepts that seem to be seen with the theme to talk about the other theme, that follow the process, independence, etc., the "monotheme", as you say. They always do the same, they say they want to talk about other things and things that concern Catalans and Catalans, but it seems that the only one that concerns Catalans and Catalans is the process, despite the fact that in the previous intervention they said it was corruption and trembling. I'm the one who sometimes didn't just hear where the argumental thread and the political strategy of the Ciutadans Group went. I'll tell you what he's not talking about, what he's not talking about, what he's not talking about, who the competitions are, and who the targets of Catalonia's foreign action are, or he's not talking about transparency. What are you talking about? Not to authorize, to dissolve, to persecute the separatist interests. I have not just heard what they say here, this sentence, because it is: « Posei remăi with immediate character to the deficits of public information, institutional disloyalty and the persecution of separatist interests. It seems that what they want is to put an end to the persecution of the separatist interests who are a fan of outside action. It's very hard to hear all this. And that's why I didn't prepare a big speech, but I'll go and explain to them why we don't vote at the point of this agreement, almost every single one. The first, therefore, because they speak of the principles of unity of action abroad, institutional loyalty and defence of the interests and values of Spain abroad. If these interests and these values are the sale of weapons to Saudi Arabia, I am very sorry, but I do not believe that the external action of the Government of Catalonia should remain loyal to these principles of external action. As a person who has worked for a long time in development cooperation, we have found that many times these principles of institutional loyalty and unity of external action were principles that were used so that we did not support organized groups, social movements and people who were raising demands on their governments, such as the right to education, land regularization or putting oil exploitation in certain areas. We do not believe that the generality and foreign policy of Catalonia should be subordinated to the interests of the Spanish State, especially when we do not have these interests clearly to which they respond, since we could once again talk about the coherence of policies and the role that Spanish companies do abroad in matters of violations of human rights. No, we don't think that's what we need to do. There was-there was another theme in point 3... – I'll have to go quickly. Well, the second point is dissolving, isn't it? You're not building, you're dissolving. In point 3, his intervention asked some very concrete questions about the need to transparent expenditure. And we agree with that, but with this motion for a resolution the agreement does not talk about that. Why did he not ask or why he did not agree with what he said in that intervention that he needed to ask for this transparency? This agreement is used for another time to speak of '1 October, separatism and everything that has passed. In point 4, we thought we could come to an agreement, which was ultimately not possible. And they know we've made them a point where we think that what we're going to talk about is what we're going to do outside. And, for us, an important part of the external action of the Government of Catalonia is cooperation in development. And to be able to make it well 0.7_percent of the Generality's own resources in a reasonable term. We offered you two years. What they can't do is condition this, another time, to the principles of unity of action, institutional loyalty, so no. The defence of human rights, sometimes, has nothing to do with institutional loyalty to states, and we have seen it in many of the motions for resolutions that are brought and will be brought to the Foreign Affairs Committee, where we are sure that with the Citizens' Group we can hear much more. Therefore, a great deal could not have come to an agreement at this point. We think that we can continue to work with you in, really, finding out what is the field of action that the external action of Catalonia has to do. And maybe they don't like it, but the truth and for the years that I have had to cooperate and develop and as we have worked, Catalan cooperation and Catalan external action have been a referent in many places in resolving conflicts and defending human rights. And we have to respect that, we have to defend him to death. And we have to keep asking for resources because that might be it. And that's also outside action. As I said, we would vote against this because it basically doesn't talk about external action and transparency. There is a point that is that of the SDGs, that is related to a young person who is also going to debate in a manner that we believe is, at least, a point that speaks of external action, speaks of sustainable development and speaks of concrete facts. So, as it's the only point that we think it's what she's supposed to be, we'll vote for it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.24.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and to fix his position, he has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.25.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, first of all, we want to say that today we dedicate our interventions to President Forcadell, to Carme Forcadell, unjustly undertaken to defend democracy before the despotism of the Spanish State. So Carme's going for you. [[Greetings.]] We, Mirin, would actually want an external action, a public diplomacy of the Generality, which was effective, effective and oriented, to put just a few examples, to the external projection not only of Catalonia, but of the conjunction of the birth of the Catalan Countries ; which, effectively, was effective and effective at the time of presenting the political conflict that we live in our country, between the legitimate right to self-determination and repression as the only response on the part of the State and which effectively posed on the table of all the international forums and institutions the need for a democratic resolution of this conflict and an effective international mediation. We would also like our foreign action to be an effective actor in our United Nations system, in the international system, to promote a new global relationship based on pau, solidarity, cooperation and sustainability on a global scale. We would want effective and effective external action in support of the right collectivities of the peoples, from Palestine to the peoples of America, under colonial or extractive oppression of states and multinational enterprises. As well as contributing clearly to a new Euro-Mediterranean relationship framework, free from the Troika and NATO, etc. We could set many more examples than we would actually want to preside over our external action if the Spanish State wanted it as if it didn't want it, and effectively with full transparency. And that's why we won't vote for this Ciutadans young man. And, to say the least, since we are hearing them speak a lot of "siringuites and also respect the external action of the Generality..., to speak of "siringuites or ferret barracks, that is a Catalan expression that I think I have expressed much better, perhaps we should speak of the royal house, a glue of parsites, right? We should also talk about some courts which do not have any political independence and do not respect the businesses of IBEX 35 and the bank, as they have shown with their decisions regarding mortgages, etc. We should also talk about all kinds of related syllables, and firehouses, with the rotating doors of the State in relation to the political system. So, they have enough work to do with...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.26.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.27.0	... his syringuitos because the Spanish State today, above all, looks like a barricade of fire. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.28.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.29.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. For us, you have a lot of sense of the title of the motion presented by the Ciutadans Group: "External relations and transparency. Because if something is absolutely opaque in this government, and for a few years now, it's exactly the external relations. And, in this sense, the case of Independent Diplomat is a case that we wanted to be working very intensely, in the year 2014, also together with the Socialist Group, there was also working very intensely. We will have to ask the President of Parliament on various occasions, we did not get out of it. We were going to have to ask the Greuges Synod too – say'memenu, but we did it' –; obviously we didn't get out of it either. And at that time, four, five, six, seven years later, so we still have absolutely no information on who the functions were and what the monthly reports were on the tasks that that lobby, Independent Diplomat, was developing, which was actually replaced. Therefore, for us, you have absolutely the whole sense of the world, in the line of other motions that have been debated in previous legislatures with regard to the same questions, above all with regard to externality and transparency, and therefore our group will support it. Surely the difference between some of the xiringuites that have just emerged in relation to the "external relations xiringuites of the Government of Catalonia" is that the others are transparent, and they have no way of knowing exactly what they are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.30.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Congressman Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.31.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, we also want to start by sending a strong hug from here to President Forcadell, the same way we want to do to Adrian and Tamara, who by the end of the National Audience seems to stop investigating, looks like they're no longer terrorists, looks like the sixty civilian guard vans that are covered, with their hatches, show up at the doors of their home – in some case without success, because they're going to escape through the back door – so they no longer serve for kings, they're no longer coups, right? [[Greetings.]] In any case, I would ask them, since they like to use all these terms, which at least they say from then on, "supposed coupsmen, right? As long as they believe in Spanish justice, at least they tell them that. The same way we ask them to quit using it, and then they repeated it again, terms like supremacists. Because our reply could be perfectly speaking of the Ciutadans Feixist group. Every time I talk about you, we could talk about the "Carrizosa's Feixista", the "Steam Feixista", it would be exactly the same. In fact, we could say that you guys are literally closer to fascism the moment you manifest yourself next to Vox...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.32.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.33.0	...the moment you leave Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.34.0	Deputy, deputy, deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.35.0	Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.36.0	Well, Congressman, just a moment, please. Congressman, all... yesterday I made a call to behave responsibly from the Faristol, for all the congressmen. Members of this chamber and members of the Government of the Generality were missing yesterday.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.37.0	Correct.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.38.0	And I said I wouldn't tolerate it again. Therefore, I will not consent to the deputy, from the bench that follows, I will not consent to anyone else. So, please, Congressman, that it is retracted from his words, that it withdraws the statement, and from then on, I insist on this, I will be very strict in this sense; for everyone, this goes for everyone. Go on, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.39.0	I take the words off. I'm glad it's tight from now on. See if we really keep this up. Let's talk about the young lady, a young woman who really did when we had her, let's have a little laugh because that's really a folded barrier. I have pointed out a few points: in principle they seem to be talking about outside action; they ask us to defend the interests and values of Spain..., I don't know, we may expect you to follow or the Spanish State to explain what is really going on in Catalonia. They ask us to dissolve all designed structures, embassies... I don't know, believe me... maybe the counselor can tell us: do we have any embassies outside? I don't think so. Believe us, when they talk about embassies, what they mean. Or Diplomacy, Diplomacy, which is a public consortium formed by different entities, universities, banks, etc.; therefore, the government is not well. I don't know... They also ask us to complete the autonomous regulations of the Generality in terms of transparency. Believe that this information has not been given between the terms established. The costs and activities of delegations to the Government, whenever requested..., donated. This information was perfectly public, in fact, before the application of 155. The costs of supposed international observers. Well, during October 1st came a lot – a lot – of people out there. It is a phenomenon that interests – it interests – the world. The proof of this is that we've been opening telenews from all over the world. So, more than international observers, what came is a lot of people on their own interested in what was going on in Catalonia. But then, they leave a bit of the subject and talk about the "passivity of the maximum internal affairs officials before the violent actions of the CoRs". I don't know, it seems to me that, of that, we were talking about outsiders. In the same way that when they begin to sweep the issue of the malfunction of the DGAIA... aren't we talking about Exteriors in this proposal? The affectation of the public assets of the Generalitat in different cases of corruption. I don't know what they're talking about. Passive cases and we'll talk about it anyway. After they return to external action, they ask that it be elaborated and present in their parliament within three_months a plan of spending optimization of external action. Well, optimization..., I think it's already optimized with 0,28_per_cent that's the assumption..., of the total assumption. Anyway, what we want to do is make it more powerful, if it can be. And they talk about maintaining the tourism, commercial and cultural promotion, and at some point when a parliamentary group, quite certainly, makes them a theme that talks about cooperation and development, of 0.7, in this case, then they do not accept it. Maybe here we did find each other, then. To inform in its parliament on the European and international agenda of the Government. Before we do the troubadours do we have to inform? Why don't we just... decide who we can do and who can't? In any case, you get to govern and you can decide which institutional finds or is not a fan. But handing them over before you hear it's a little weird, right? And, in any case, no problem explaining to them once these findings have been made, the way the counselor has appeared up to three times, if I don't recall badly, to the CAERIT. "Immediately cease all institutional tasks that have the condition of investigations – here they are not coups, here they are investigated – well, no, they will not cease. And finally, we get to point 8, which is where we start talking, now, for real, about external action, we talk about... well, yes, at this point we agree, right? We will not vote for it, because what we have done is pass it to the young lady we are discussing in a few moments and we have not only passed it, but we have expanded it; I think we have found ourselves here. But I think this is the way. Here we can find us. Here is the compliment of the objective of the sustainable development of the 2030 Agenda, with 0.7..., in all that we can do a lot of work and we have to do, I'm sure. But, oysters, that's... it's all barricaded in here. Therefore, I inform you that we will vote – we will vote – against everything and, in any case, we will talk about this to the next Member. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.40.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Francesc Ten. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.41.0	Escoltin – escoltin –, deputies, calm down, huh? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I call them to order. Mr. Carrizosa and Mr. Wagensberg, first warning; I call you to order. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's right. I have already called to order Mr Wagensberg and Mr Carrizosa, and they know what the consequences are: Article 233 of the Rules of Procedure. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.42.0	Thank you, President. Today – certainly, 9-N – we cannot see that we live in a normal situation. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] It's been a year since the president of this Parliament entered the prison. Masses sad ephemerides. There have been reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State claims more than two hundred years in prison. That's why I, like my partners, accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. No, we'll never give up. As far as the progress made by this motion on external action and transparency is concerned, we will vote against it. It is a barrier-barrier, as Congressman Wagensberg said, and there are points in which it would not be possible to vote – and forgive – for neither the prepositions. I'd say she's a young man about no outside action, who seems to me to be the one that might please them that Catalonia does and has: no outside action. His young man's experience is above all this: self-mutilation, as Congressman Pedret said, and malaise. Don't ask us, we don't like it and we won't vote for it. I don't have time to run point by point, let's run some. For example, point 7, in which they talk about "runaways and defendants" and the same old song. Look, let's go to the scene: when the defense of legality works for injustice, which is what's going on..., I repeat, when the defense of legality works for the injustice of justice, the empire of law, this terminology' resounding that you like it, but above all society also has a problem. And you, cross-separatist citizens, know it and do not want to solve it, because it comes back to you, not to resolve the conflict. If it's for you, it wouldn't work out practically anything: no outside action and no inside action. The exiles, from whom they flee, are from Spanish injustice. It bothers you that the very honorable President Carles Puigdemont and the rest of the international exiles in the Catalan republican cause. To us we are unworthy of this battle of traps, filibusterism and supreme injustice. From point 4, Catalonia's emena in Comú We can be a way of doing politics and advancing what the general policy debate had approved, and it has certainly been a great thing that citizens do not want to make serious progress in external cooperation, in talking about poverty and in talking about sustainable development and human rights. Unfortunately, maybe he's into his logic. If we talk about outside action, we don't just talk about it as if it were runaways and, as point 4 conveys, forgiving life, of "commercial, tourist and cultural promotion". External action is this cultural, tourist and commercial commercial promotion, yes, but many and many more things. A country must be able to explain itself. You have to be able to explain yourself to the outside world. The Diplomat aims to explain Catalonia to the world and to focus on international public opinion in order to improve the image and prestige of the country abroad. We hear that if the image of Catalonia improves, we're not all happy, are we? Is that really the problem? Your problem? The gains that don't improve the image of Catalonia? That Catalonia cannot prosper, that it does not improve TV3, that it does not improve the Catalan school, that it does not improve the culture... What do they like about Catalonia? What are you talking about? Different or not, what kind of treats do they like in Catalonia? Jo, sometimes, I wonder. To finish, let's go to point one. Do you know what we're talking about, not the government of Catalonia but the state government? Not to authorize the use of the resources of all Catalans to make propaganda and to exercise violence against Catalonia. And let him exercise his statutory and law 16/2014 powers in the field of external action. We're putting in the State that I let apply the current law. Of course, PSC: if it's already a valid law, which you voted for, make a point of it in the guiding principles of this law..., it's strange to me. Citizens and Mr. Borrell : let the law apply and that Catalonia has international presence, and that neither the 155 nor the PSOE-Borrell can ever more close the delegations. I would like to say to the State that the Cervantes Institute in the field of external action and culture promotes all the languages of the State and that Minister Borrell asks the European Parliament to use the Catalan language. That would be institutional dialogue and loyalty, and that would defend the values of the State abroad. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. In order to pronounce on the papers, Ms. Susana Beltrán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.44.0	Thank you, President. We didn't accept any questions, so the motion remains as we presented it. Miri, I would like to say to the Deputy of Together for Catalonia..., I say this because when we speak in Catalan, so we address ourselves as « Together for Catalonia and so on..., and, in change, you, when you speak of us, so much if we speak in Catalan as in Spanish, so, they say « Citizens, and I have not just heard why. Because... [[applause]] In any case, three languages please us – in any case, three languages please us. Look, the problem is that we want outside action, but there can't be outside action if there's separatist action. It's either one or the other. And the problem we have is that there is still separatist action: Diplomat; the fact that we don't give this information from years ago, the fact that we are already in employment and follow the Government of the Generalitat without giving any information..., or that is what we are asking, still reiterates this lack of transparency. If you do not give up unilaterality, if you are not genuinely transparent and assume political responsibilities in this Parliament..., there can be no separatist action. And I'd like to finish..., and precisely today, November 9th – which is certainly also my anniversary – a dedication to all Spanish institutions, which we can hold many reviews, but I dedicate all the work to them, and I also dedicate it to the good work and all the patir that many million citizens have had, many million Spaniards, who lived with pain on September 6th and 7th of 2017 and the declarations of independence that the separatist parties voted on October of the past year. Thank you to all of them. Visca Catalunya, visca Espanya and visca Europa! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.45.0	Yes, Mrs Segovia, I had asked for a separate vote, and no... [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez intervenes without using the microphone.]] Point eight, all right. Yes, Mr. Wagensberg, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.46.0	Yes, for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.47.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.48.0	Well, I took my words off. When I passed by, Mr. Carrizosa said to me, "Go on and talk, I'll see you outside. I'd like you to say here to the hemicle, publicly, the one who wants to tell me out, to tell me here, publicly, anyway. [[Greetings and remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.49.0	Thank you. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados, say, say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.50.0	To ask for a separate vote on points 1, 2 and 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.51.0	Together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.52.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.53.0	Tell me, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.54.0	For Mr. Wasemberg's allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.55.0	« Wagensberg. Say, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.56.0	If it's called that... Look, Mr. Member, I, whenever you want, speak of what you think, since we are Members, all of us, representatives of the Catalans. I think we need to have a little more respect for our fellow Members in the Chamber, and therefore, as I have already said to you, whenever you want, we are talking about issues of respect, political issues, outside this Chamber. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.57.0	Lady Sirvent, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.58.0	For a point of order and for compliance with the Rules, above all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.59.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.60.0	So, first of all, we don't want to do anything about it. But that's what's been going on very, very hard in this Parliament. How does one Member say, when he comes out of an intervention, to another: "What do we see on the street? What's that supposed to mean? [[Widow's remorse.]] « See you outside– « See you outside. We've all heard it here – we've all heard it. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.61.0	Callin, please. I've got the word Mrs. Sirvent's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.62.0	So, president, from the CUP - Creed Constituent we ask you to undertake the actions that are appropriate, according to the Rules, because this situation is not repeated again in this Parliament. [[You want 'Very good and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.63.0	I called the two deputies to order, they listened to him and I warned them. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] We're not going this way. Be aware of the record of this call to order; be aware, of course, of everything you have said, and I would not want to be forced to make more calls to order and end up expelling no one from this chamber. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa, you've already intervened. [[The vice president then intervenes without using the microphone.]] Say, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.64.0	Yes, to categorically deny that I have told this gentleman that'see you on the street. And, among other things, I would never dare go down to the streets, which are yours, to discuss anything with Mr. Wasemberg. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.65.0	Finally, I insist, the two Members are called to order, but I also make the extended call, as I have done before, at the conjunct of the Chamber. [[David Cid Colomer intervenes without using the microphone.]] At the conjunct of the hemicicle, Mr. Cid, at the conjunct of the hemicicle. [[David Cid Colomer returns without using the microphone.]] Exactly, there are times when it looks like a schoolyard, and now you're contributing to it, Mr. Cid. [[Widow's remorse.]] Therefore, call and respect who has the word turn, that in this case I am. The word the gift or I pass it, so I'm the one who handles this Ple. And as the manager of this House, I say that I will not accept any disrespect, either from the Faristol or from the Escons. I've shouted to the order of two deputies, I hope I won't have to do it again today and I hope I won't have to finish expelling anyone from this chamber. We follow the order of the day and proceed to the vote on this motion. A separate vote was requested on 1, 2 and 4, and on 8. We'll vote first points 1, 2 and 4. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 38 votes to 72, with 17 abstentions. Let's go now and vote point number eight. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 62 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 68 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the inquiry on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development]] [[302-00022/12]] We are now on the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word, to defend it, the deputy Mr Ferran Civit. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.66.0	Well, this is Mr. Ferran Civit's turn... I don't know if the president has read the point that it's about... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Didn't you announce the point that's dealt? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He didn't give her the word. Well, you have the word, Mr. Ferran Civit, for a five-minute time, to defend the following motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.67.0	Perfect; thank you very much, President. Counselor, advisors, representing the CADS here present, let's hope that this point generates more consensus. Let us take advantage of the fact that in the previous camp battle someone has neglected a pen; that he is not a collateral victim... The 2030 agenda, as you know, is a minimum agreement, we'll have a lot of things to do, it's a very powerful starting point, but we have to make it clear that until we change the economic production model, we'll continue to tear apart forever. It is the same as the Paris agreements, which, as you know, marked two degrees to intervene, to fight the climate change, but after the studies have told us that if we don't go at 1.5 degrees and fight this, we won't get out of it. And I take this opportunity to say, therefore, a monogram that the Journal La Jornada made, very interesting, on the subject, and that, unfortunately, now the Journal La Jornada disappeared. Therefore, I take advantage to claim the journalism of quality and compromise, that here in Catalonia, and all in all, we very much need it. We are late and unfortunately, with the 2030 Agenda, with the climate change... It has to be recognized that it is the most important global initiative that has ever taken place, it has a certain consensus, but we have to make this global minimum agreement here in Catalonia as a maximum agreement. Because at the global level, with so many sensitivities, it has come to a certain minimum consensus and even to the point that things have been introduced into which, if they allow me, therefore – feminism, ecology, sexual diversity – in this same chamber, in previous legislatures, some parties yesterday, today, or heretics of previous parties, have voted different things. Concepts such as 'female', 'hippy', 'distant' or 'distant'..., by luck, what was previously considered abnormal, by luck is a normality and by luck is more, because this is the good normality and the one that touches, the just and the one that seeks the benefit for everyone. The 2030 agenda, in part, reverses this advent. It is also clear that with the 2030 Agenda, not all of the objectives that we have pending will not be completed, much less. There will be global goals, objectives that will have to be more ambitious and, above all, that wander into the background of the problem. And the plot of the problem is to change the economic and political system, not just from here, but from scratch, because we need an economic model and a political model that is more just and more democratic. Which times do we have, which times is the 2030 Agenda? The poor: here in Catalonia, we have a very unequal Western society, made worse by the crisis. We have people – and here on the side of Parliament – who sleep on the street, and people who don't get up at the end of the month. Hi and well-being: we have high expectations of life in Catalonia, but not always of quality. Quality education, the other goal: we have great professionals here, but we still have a lot to fight against school failure. Genre equality: as is clear, neither in money nor in sexual violence are we supposed to be. Net water and sanitation: we have more than five hundred debuggers in Catalonia, but we are 941 municipalities. Net and Affordable Energy: Here in Catalonia, and to the vast majority of places in the world, we have not done well; only here in Catalonia, we have the 8_percent of renewable energy, practically without self-consumption and with great benefits for the energy oligopolis. Work worthy and economic growth; for me, more than economic growth, the important thing is the redistribution of income and occupation. Industry, innovation and infrastructure: effectively, more productivity, but above all less negative impacts. Reduction of inequalities: as you know, the trickle-down principle doesn't work, and the crisis has made the rich even richer. Sustainable cities and communities: the vast majority, to come here, we have contaminated the quality of the area of this city, of this and of all where we live. Responsible consumption and production: this means more fair trade and proximity. Climate action; here we have already spoken, which is the great global challenge. Undersea life: with some costs that we are about to lose in the coral, and logically the same beaches. Terrestrial life: biodiversity, which runs the perill of the great earthquake extinction. Pau, justice and solid institutions, which is the great way to run. But all this will not be possible without redistribution of wealth, without food sovereignty, without a state of potential welfare, without an inclusive school of quality, without struggle against the heteropatriarchate– because it already seems, unfortunately, eternalpatriarchate–, without a new water culture, without an energy model one hundred_per cent renewable and one hundred_per_democratic, without dignity and working conditions still more dignified, barrels and peoples for everyone, without consumerism, without regathering of primary resources, without destroying the environment or affecting the original populations, guaranteeing freedom of movement from the run people, without preserving biodiversity to the earth and water, while also guaranteeing the rights of animals, without saying anything, without saying anything. So, more democracy and more freedom. There is no change without more freedom for the citizenry. The 2030 Agenda is a good starting point. Take advantage of it, focus on it. But, above all, this is what everyone is asking us, not just the people of this chamber, and logically the people who tied it to the previous government. That's for you, Raül, Pain, Josep, and always for you, Carme. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.68.0	Thank you, Mr. Civit – the pen stays here at the table, for if anyone finds it missing. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Lady White Victoria Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.69.0	Good morning, Mr. President. Deputies, Catalonia is a great autonomous community of this great country that is Spain. Italo Calvino said that the unrealised futures are only branches of the past, dry branches. Dried branches, Mr. Counselor, dried branches. Will the beautiful purposes of the 2030 Agenda be one more dry branch, dead at the feet of the horses in the process? You're wasting your time, Mr. Counselor, do you hear that? And while Mr. Torra has told us that he has come here to make the Catalan Republic effective. And the problems of Catalans, what? Blah, blah, blah. But the 2030 Agenda is not about fantasy, it is about the real problems of Catalans, it is about avoiding social exclusion, it is about reducing waiting lists, it is about ensuring an inclusive, equitable and quality education, and among other things it is also about achieving the economic recovery of Catalonia. I mean, it's going to solve the problems of Catalans. And yet, in Catalonia waiting lists are increasing and continue to increase. Have you heard that doctors are missing? Have you heard that those who are there have been expressed so much that they are going on strike? Yeah? In Catalonia, thousands of companies have left and continue to leave. What about education? For it has already been seen that it is not equitable for all children who are Spanish speaking. But no, this government has as its priority to continue opening up chiringuitos abroad to speak ill of Spain, and to pretend to develop skills that do not belong to them, and to continue opening up fake chiringuitos to place their friends, to generate confusion and continue breaking Catalonia while time slips between their fingers. Because the year 2030 is just around the corner. The past legislature, Citizens already presented proposals of the agenda. What would be missing is the extent to which progress has been made since then, but they do not seem to like this about accountability. Gentlemen of Esquerra, this was a make-up motion, so... the government could say..., make you see that it does actually without doing. Because the points that have approved us are those that give consistency to your motion. There is no need to create another working group to continue talking about the agenda. What is needed is to divide the objectives among the different councils, which regularly issue compliance reports and that the advisers go to each of the respective commissions to report. Because, if not, everything stays in blah, blah, blah. And more importantly, of course, regions are important to the agenda. Why do they not begin to coordinate with the rest of the autonomous communities? And in point 6 they have not been able to put in writing that they have to coordinate with the Government of Spain, and that they are partners of their Government. Let's see, among other things, the agenda does not understand internal borders, that among other things it goes to climate change, that pollution knows when the Strip passes? No, right? Look here. [[the speaker shows a full camera]] : « Action plan for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda: Towards a Spanish sustainable development strategy. Page 98, Catalonia. This is the principle of reality. We don't live in the Republic of Narnia. As much as you want to play Tabú, do you remember that game where you couldn't say a list of words? As much as they don't want to use the word Spain and not use the words "autonomous community, Catalonia is a great autonomous community of a great country, which is Spain". And, if there is no coordination with the Government of Spain, it will be difficult or impossible to meet the objectives of the agenda. [[Greetings.]] Counselor, the year 2030 is just around the corner, and they're getting laid. Every minute they devote to being a republic, not only do we not get close to achieving the objectives of the agenda, but the state of well-being in Catalonia continues to fall into hiding. So, gentlemen of the government, don't stop listening to the sound of time, and put on your batteries, because it will be that same time, relentless, the only judge of your decisions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.70.0	Thank you, Miss Navarro. Also to defend the papers presented, it is then the turn of Mrs Aurora Madaula, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.71.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Members, councillors, parliamentary workers and representatives of the honourable people of Catalonia who are with us today, thank you very much, good morning. The 2030 Agenda is synonymous with transformation; the 2030 Agenda is a challenge that Catalan society has to undertake with strength, because it requires a sustained defence of sustainable development. The 2030 Agenda represents a great responsibility, because it is the engine of change of the future. And when it comes to integrating Catalonia into the international agenda, when it comes to involving citizenship in the construction of the future, Junts per Catalunya will always find us there. It is for this reason that the Junta Group for Catalonia will vote in favour of the motion submitted for the Republican Group, committing us to age for the development and compliment of the objectives that the agenda has. Some ambitious objectives, obviously granted to the United Nations Assembly, among which they highlight, as the company of the Republican Group has already stated: the eradication of the poor and the family, all promote sustainable agriculture; the construction of resilient infrastructures that promote the development of an inclusive and sustainable industry, as well as responsible consumption; the ever-important fight against climate change, or the guarantee of universal access to justice for everyone, who must be responsible, effective, inclusive and just, above all fair, that some states are well needed. Given the cross-cutting and therefore interdepartmental nature of the objectives of the agenda, collaboration between the different departments of the Generality will be absolutely necessary. That's why we're asking you to hear about it. But to get the yarns so necessary that they put them on this agenda, it's everyone's collaboration. That is why, from Parliament, and following the instructions given to the Secretary General of the United Nations, we commit ourselves to actively engage in the implementation of the agenda. For this reason, we would like to thank the Republican Group for accepting the message presented to us by our parliamentary group, which focuses on one of the main objectives of the agenda, such as the defence and development of the rights of women and sexual and gender diversity. In fact, a couple of weeks ago I had the honor and pride to represent this Parliament, as a member of the Intergroup of Population, Development and Reproductive Health. As I said, I had the honour of participating in the International Parliamentary Meeting in Canada, with the invaluable help and support of the Association of Sexual and Reproductive Rights, which today accompany us, to which I welcome and thank them for their help. [[Greetings.]] One of the themes we worked on in Canada was the effective development of sexual and reproductive rights of women as well as the goal included in the 2030 Agenda on Gender Equality. From this international encounter, in which the Parliament of Catalonia participated as a full member of the right, as a full member of the right, we participated because we have an intergroup dedicated to sexual reproduction issues, we managed to write an ambition as a result of the conference, in which we emphasize that we commit ourselves to developing the objective of implementing the necessary measures to protect and respect human rights, in concrete terms, the relationship of the rights of women in the field of equality. This is just one of the examples of the 2030 Agenda plan ambition. Our bad responsibility now in applying these objectives. There is no other way to compromise this document, granted for a sufficient representation of parliaments from all regions of the planet, so as to contribute, from a perspective of gender and equality, to the development of the objectives of Agenda 2030 that we are debating today in this plenary. But I couldn't end up without telling them that we're not in a normal situation. We cannot see that we live in a normal situation when there are political prisoners, reprisals and exiles, to which the State asks more than two hundred years of imprisonment. That is why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, of violating the fundamental rights and of criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. We won't give up and they won't pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.72.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Madaula. Next, to fix his position, he has the word, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.73.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, advise, look at, the 2030 goals, the sustainable development goals and the challenges that lie before us are universal challenges that must be addressed together across all territories of all countries. They are reprehensible to us, to the administrations, but they are reprehensible to us that we must ensure that they are recognised for the conjunction of citizenship, because they also affect their future, recognition that they must seek their involvement in decisions. We need a clear institutional framework, planning capacity, participatory mechanisms, collaboration at all levels of government, promote subsidiarity and also promote private sector collaboration to achieve these objectives. But we will not succeed without a fairer distribution of resources and investments. We need massive, public and private investments to improve resilient infrastructure thinking about the best effects of climate change. Investments to ensure basic services as well, to compensate for inequalities, to raise clean economies, to promote culture as a driver of development, to also address the impacts of climate change. We need to turn the 2030 Agenda into concrete policies and actions. I will not be able to refer to all the objectives of sustainable development, but with the public policies that the Government of Catalonia is pursuing, we believe, from our parliamentary group, that we have not just gone well to achieve the objectives. Mirin, Catalonia is a long way from Europe. The constant details, since 2011, and the absolute inactivity in effective social policies during these years have brought us, as UNICEF – not this parliamentary group – points out – that the poor child in Catalonia is located four points under the middle of the European Union. That is to say, one of every four children is at risk of poverty. Catalonia also has an early drop-out fee for the studies. The year 2017 was a 17.1 year, much over the 10.6 of European media and, again, UNICEF warns us that the public investment in education in Catalonia is lower than that of the European Union countries. In fact, between the years 2010 and 2015, the reduction was around 14_percent. We're at the top of Europe. That is to say, if we want to complete the 2030 goals, we must thank resources and public policies to transform this reality. Because the inequality of income in Catalonia continues three points per over a decade ago, and four tenths per over the middle of the European Union. Our country, of course, has one of the highest life expectancy in Europe, but do we all have it? Well, if we're born and live, will our life expectancy be one or the other? If we look at it only in Barcelona city, the capital of Catalonia, there are more than six years of difference between Pedralbes or Raval. In terms of salvation, the postal code is more important than the genetic code. The government is making sure that salvation and the poor are inherited. We have a universal system, of course, but with difficult accessibility problems. Is it healthy to have 166,000 people on a waiting list for surgery? Or 123,000 waiting for a diagnostic test? Or 434,000 people expecting a visit to the specialist? We believe that in order to meet the objectives of the 2030 Agenda or to change the criteria and focus of public policies in our country, we prioritize public investments in the sense that I was expressing them, or we will hardly succeed in meeting the objectives of the sustainable development agenda that sets us up, with great certainty, United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.74.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can. There's the word Mrs. Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.75.0	Thank you very much. So I want to tell the Republican Group that we're going to give support to their young lady, because it's again a small, good word and a statement of intent that you don't say anything about. It is very difficult not to support good intentions and good words. I do want to make an alert, and it's that I look, too, using Agenda 2030 to talk about everything that needs to be done and commitments and where we need to go, but then don't do it. Those who come from the world of development and cooperation, of global justice, we have already seen the Millennium Objects, which were only eight, and that, well, as far as the year 2000 came, it was to be the developmental bomb and to eradicate the poor, the male-based violence, the children were to go to teaching... If we make an assessment of what happened to the Millennium Objects, then we will prove that it did not happen, basically because, more than a statement of intent by the United Nations and its member states, its member states did not apply any measure actually aimed at achieving the Millennium Objects. There was no increase in resources, but rather a breakdown of resources allocated from the north to combat inequality and injustice in the south; there was no approval of legislation, declarations, or resolutions of the United Nations of compulsory compliment which, for example, avoids the use of minors in Belgian conflicts, arms trafficking... A whole series of structural measures to advance towards a more just and equal world, which is what the Millennium Goals were in principle looking for, and which were not completed and how did we resolve it? So now it's 2030, isn't it? , Sustainable development objectives. Now the international community has some new objectives in 2030. The objectives– of sustainable development, in this case – require: results, measurable indicators, public policies, actions and resources– resources–, which is what the government groups never want to compromise on their motions and proposals for resolutions, and which normally vote against when some of the other groups ask them to tell the band what they think they are doing and what they think they are doing. The commitment of this Parliament and of the Government of the Generality to the objectives of sustainable development must be translated into concrete policies and expenditure, into resources. In Catalonia, in order to be able to talk about the objectives of sustainable development, we need to talk about the possibilities of shame, which we have already enumerated and which today I will not enter because I have other data that refresh more. And, above all, it is necessary to enter into a proposal for progressive taxation and green taxation and policies for the redistribution of income and wealth. Until we do that, let's stop talking about the SDGs because we're not very far now and 2030. I have taken the UNICEF report, on the status of the 2030 Agenda as a child in Catalonia, as of May 2018; I assume that the majority of Members of this House have been able to look at it, so they will already sound everything I say. I won't take all the indicators or all the targets they're talking about, which actually only make seven of them; I won't take a few, and only with the subtitle is already quite eloquent. We can't lose track, because 2030 seems to be far away, but it's not. I've been speeding through some of them. The objective of sustainable development 1: to put the poor in all its forms. In Catalonia, one_of_each_four children lives under the poverty trap; UNICEF recommends increasing social investment and establishing a universal child-to-child benefit. Will you do it, gentlemen of the government? Sustainable development objective 3: to ensure a healthy life. An 18_percent of children have problems with obesity, a 5_percent have chances of mental distress, suicide is the main cause of death of young people between fifteen and twenty-four years. The Greuges Synod denounces how children and children are affected by waiting lists, and how they can't access basic services such as dentist or podologist, because they can't afford it. UNICEF recommends increasing resources; there is a wave of doctors because there are not enough pediatricians. What will the government do to achieve this goal by 2030? Ensure inclusive, equitable, quality education. In Catalonia school drop-out is 17_per_cent, school segregation is alarming and investment in education is two points under the middle of the European Union. UNICEF recommends increasing the reversal until it reaches this 5_per_cent. What will the government do, how will they do it and with five resources will they do it? Get inclusive, secure and sustainable cities; housing the energy poor: with five dollars? What do you think you're doing and how do you think you're going to ensure this for all of Catalonia? And then I could go on until I said something. I don't have time, and I didn't want to forget that this was also a policy coherence and that it was also a human right, and that was also from the observer and the work that has to be done from Catalonia to ensure that Catalan companies complete human rights. This was also a motion for a resolution which was approved in this Parliament and which was left on a full paper. When will they have it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.76.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. [[Greetings.]] Next, for the CUP Parliamentary Subgroup - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Mr. Riera? [[Pause.]] I'm sorry – I'm sorry – I see that I had a bad point here... I'm sorry, it's just... Mrs. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.77.0	Good morning, all of you. From our point of view, the 2030 Agenda is overly neoliberal, and I will try to explain to myself. In general terms, this agenda and its objectives could be positively valued: a lot of good intentions, but after three years the results do not seem brilliant, basically, also, because it is an agenda and commitments that are not binding, that there is no measure to follow it up or to force it to compliment. For example, the family increases again after fifteen years, and affects one or more people according to the FAO; the child labour affects 152_million minors; the climate change is observed with temperatures above the historical age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old age-old As several activists have said, the agenda is not something you can be in favour of or against; it is an example of the negotiations between states, and the outcome, that these states can bring to social transformation and justice. A declaration of intent with a clear will to see that capitalism, which basically kills us and destroys life, is reformable; we think that capitalism is not reformable. We could say that this agenda, although we can share its intentions, takes us away from the trap of problems, escapes responsibilities. For example, two months before approving this strategy against the poor, among other things, and inequality, do you know what the same states are doing? So the rich countries at the expense of most of the world's people – the western ones – blocked a proposal to create an independent body for the fight against fraud and tax evasion. On the other hand, also on the agenda of the signatory countries of the 2030 Agenda are proclaiming the promoters of peaceful societies, and they are the same ones who do not stop selling arms to territories with belgic conflicts. Another example of this is what Salil Shetty said before the UN, at a UN summit – the Secretary General of Amnesty International –: they cannot launch these Sustainable Development Goals and at the same time deny a safe route for refugees. Words and words that do not serve anything, and as other groups have already said, concretely for what it does to this Parliament and to the policies that apply from its councils, we are not in the years to come, it is that we are not and do not see the timing of this 2030 Agenda: public policies of privatization, public policies of non-redistribution of wealth... This is what we are seeing and today is a whitewash of its plan of government and capitalism. We believe that what we need to do is to build critical consciences on the street, as we will do to the March for Climate, to the twelve to Arc de Triomf; mobilized and organized against this capitalism that it does is to violate the right to life.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.78.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. [[Greetings.]] In the last place, has the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party, Mr Santi Rodríguez. From the escó, yeah? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.79.0	Yes, from the escho, president; thank you. To announce our vote in favour of this motion presented by the Republican Group. It is worth saying, a few years ago, since the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development appeared, that Parliament has adopted motions and motions for resolutions also in committee, most of them – generalists, others more concise and more particular, and therefore we have absolutely no reason to support a movement of these characteristics. Home, the thing that's really messing with us is that it's a group of people who support the government that makes a statement of intent through a young man. We believe that what can be done from the government is to take more government agreements and submit fewer motions, so as to demonstrate that, effectively, the commitment to the 2030 Agenda is a real commitment and not just a statement of intent, as this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.80.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Lord Ferran Civit, for a term of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.81.0	« Bones again. First of all, it is to announce, therefore, that there has been a deal with the Junts Group for Catalonia, also with the Ciutads Group in the vast majority. Logically, the only one that hasn't been dealt, and therefore won't be put to the vote, is what you say is a taboo word, but I won't be sorry, that I'll spell the taboo word: « Spanish, « Spanish State. And I'll tell you more: visca Espanya, pull Spain and live Spain, in my paternal language. « Long live Spain we will say so many times as usual; the problem is that for us it is: living republican Spain, instead of a corrupt monarchy. [[Greetings.]] Live fair Spain, which has no political prisoners; live free Spain, where all citizens are truly free and where collective and individual diversity is respected; live sustainable Spain, which is not under the authoritarianism of the energetic oligopolisticoligopolis; live peaceful Spain, which does not trade in arms; live solid Spain, which finds immigrants and does not return to China; live internationalist Spain, which supports the case of Sahara and Catalonia equally; live women's Spain, which in a violation does not see any or no abuse, that leaves the country free; see the claim of Spain, which does not support the case of Sahara and Catalonia; live women's Spain, which in a violation does not see any or any abuse, that does not leave the country free; see the claim of Spain, which does not place protesters or accused of terrorists like Tamara Carrasco; live women's Spain, which in a violation does not see any and does not leave the country alone; live the country, where the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the country, the This is the Spanish I estimate, which is based not only on the flag but on values, and that is also Agenda 2030. That said, we'll see each other tomorrow at the March for the Climate, and Sezez and Segovia already know that personally a lot of what they said I share. We must transform it all and make possible another world, another Spanish and a better Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.82.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. We shall proceed to the vote. I don't know if there's any separate request for a vote... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.83.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote from point 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.84.0	Any more separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? We vote first point 6 and then we vote the rest of the vote. We start by voting, so point 6. The vote begins. This point was approved by 87 votes in favour, against 36 abstentions and 4 Members or Members present who did not vote. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 123 votes in favour, against, abstentions and four Members or Members present who did not vote. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the external plans for the emergence of nuclear power plants]] [[302-00023/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The twenty-sixth point is the motion following the question to the Government on the external plans for the emergence of nuclear power plants, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. It has the word, to defend it, the deputy Lord Lluís Saved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.85.0	Thank you, President. To insist that today is a year ago that the president of a European democratic parliament has been set up. The Carme, a scrap of crushed stone, is today surely the most worthy representative of a people, that will do everything for its democracy and freedom, and that..., the worthy representative of a country that will do everything to put up with the heretics of Francoism, that will continue to forbid us their right to vote, our right to vote. And this debate that we want to open from the Carmelian parliamentary group also has dignity. And with this young man we want to denounce a very serious negligence of the Spanish State that one day can cost them a lot, a lot because in the towns of Camp de Tarragona and Terres de l'Ebre. More than seven years ago, the world discovered, with the Fukushima accident, that it was necessary to provide for the evacuation, as at least, of 20 kilometres around nuclear power plants. Europe adopted a directive in 2014 that had to be transposed before the August of last year, and the Spanish Government, as always, has not transposed it, nor has it done the work to adapt its nuclear plans to the new paradigm of nuclear insecurity. Vandellòs and Ascó have hundreds of thousands of city dwellers in the 20-mile radius, and the State knows, as we all know, that it is unable to manage its evacuation, its decontamination and its supply in the event of confinement. And for that reason, 30 years ago, they didn't pretend to be general emergences, because they knew that their shames would be exposed. And European laws, their own laws, and their own regulations that require a general simulation every three years are skipped. They put hundreds of thousands of people at risk, or they cause hundreds of earthquakes and nothing happens: no one takes responsibility, and the courts give them cover and cover up what, from the General Administration of the State or from the great enterprises of the regime, they provoke. But you realize that you don't let this Parliament speak for seconds, that you immediately end up in pre-trial detention. And, while Renfe closes the station of Móra la Nova, strategic for a possible evacuation, and the trains pass through Ascó at sixty kilometers for lack of investments in the maintenance of the road, and some day of some year will end the much announced unfolding of the railway that passes along the coast to the height of the Vandellòs nuclear power plant. And we have the Czech of the Generalitat perfectly prepared, and it manages all the emergency plans of our country, and they prefer to manage the Penta from a cecof absolutely underdeveloped technologically in order not to assume its incapacity and its incompetence. And when, from this Parliament, we approve a nuclear tax that targets its funds to prepare the future economics of the nuclear-affected territories and to improve nuclear security plans, the State's response is that of the past: unconstitutionality appeals and the fixed tax since 2014. Instead of worrying about our people, when we do it from Catalonia what they do is block it with the usual efficiency and speed of the Constitutional Court. The State never fails, and its courts and its courts never err, on the side of Florentine, on the side of Endesa and the nuclear lobby, on the side of the banks, on the side of Ercros, before our people. We are a territory that we have to get used to living together with nuclear risks, with 800,000_tons of toxic residues at Flix's embassy, with the Castor's earthquakes, with the repeated threats of the State to empty our river, to pay dearly tolls and that the trains and high-voltage lines go far away. We are a territory that we are forced to deal with repeated nuclear incidents and Ercro's attacks in the river with silence and resignation. Because we know that when we shut down Ercros' factory, Flix gets hit with death as the people do, and we know that when they shut down nuclear power, if we haven't done it before the job, we'll have to shut down the Ribera d'Ebre. And we don't want to be any more complicit in this situation. We want this Parliament to go round and demand respect for dignity. And if the State is neglectful, we have to demand responsibility and we have to demand responsibility, and we have to demand that the Spanish State do its work, that it transposes the directive, that it adapts the Penta, that it puts the necessary infrastructure and that, at least, when Catalonia does something to predict the future, we do not do it to ourselves. It seems to me that this Parliament has an obligation that this question does not remain in a simple place, and that we should be over it and analyse in detail all the shortcomings that exist by means of a parliamentary commission, a committee of studies that continues to follow up on this whole question. And, above all, we also need our government to do everything it can, to be in its hands, to be able to assume the competences of all the emergencies, and also of nuclear energy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.86.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. We are now following the interventions to defend the papers presented. And, in this case, it has, in the first place, the word, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.87.0	Thank you, President. Despite the terminology that the deputy Salvado has used, and which makes the same motion useful – we certainly wrote it differently – we would vote for it, this Member, except, the deputy knows, points five and six; that is where our parliamentary group had presented two papers, which were ultimately neither possible nor acceptable on the part of the proposing group. We are instigating, or instigating, both governments, the Government of Catalonia and the Government of the State, to negotiate these two points, because we believe that it is a negotiation and a pact, above all to withdraw the unconstitutionality appeal that the former Government submitted to the Tax Law on Radioactive Residues. And, in any case, that the Government of the Government of Catalonia is also doing its job, that it is prioritizing the debate on those resources that they consider should be withdrawn, eh? Where the Government of the Generality has set its priority, this negotiation has been established, two have already been withdrawn, and we are also in the process of reaching an agreement on the important climate change law that the previous Government has also sought. And, look, we agree with... because we voted for it in the Parliament of Catalonia, this tax that charged the production of radioactive waste. Where we disagree is the government's priority of how these resources are to be allocated. Because it is certain that when nuclear power stations replace them with other sources of energy we will have to do some programs to replace what at these times are monocultures industrial in those communities. There is an abysmal difference: we have proposed, from the beginning, that 50 per cent of this collection is destined for these territories with nuclear power stations, which there is no way to agree with the government of President Puigdemont, and it seems to me that with President Torra neither. With the nuclear security issues, I think it's one of the objectives that we all need to get together... because it's true in any industrial activity that zero risk doesn't exist, huh? , there are always residual risks; but, of course, the residual risk in a nuclear power plant, as we have seen there where accidents have occurred, so they are very complex, very dangerous. Now, we believe that what we have to do is to have more skills, more resources and develop a policy, a report, through the Nuclear Security Council. I believe that the essence of the question, beyond how we act with the risks that this type of energy carries, in the background is the question of what we do with nuclear power plants. Miri, last month, October 2018, Catalonia: coverage of electricity demand in Catalonia 58.3_per_cent from nuclear power plants; only 0.4_per_cent from photovoltaics; 0.1 from thermal solar; 13.6 from wind; 7.3 from hydraulics; combined cycles– is to say, already with fossil energies – a 14.7, and with ecogeneration, which also uses gas, an 11.7. MPs, MPs, we have a problem that this government doesn't want to face. It's been two months since this House agreed that a debate on the National Energy Transition Plan should be started, but it's four months, because we've set ourselves a six-month calendar. I do not know if the rest of the parliamentary groups have any news of how the government intends to deal with this debate, not my group. And I remember, a 58,3_percent of last month's electricity demand covered our country with nuclear energy. Either we make a massive policy of substitution, through renewables, or, despite the words, that we sometimes utter in this hemisphere..., sometimes I have the impression that a part of the Government of Catalonia wants not to see nuclear power stations shut down in our country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.88.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Mr Lucas Ferro. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.89.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, Catalonia is a country where political satire is a central element of our tradition, of our way of hearing politics, of building it and of relating it to each other. And at a time like this, when censorship puts this tradition at risk, it is also necessary to claim it. We are often too accustomed to this Parliament, and today sadly there has been no exception, such as the insult or explicit offense is the main vehicle through which parliamentary groups are communicated. And, before this parliamentary degeneration, I would like to claim satire and irony as a better and more puny form of politics in Catalonia. I take advantage that the president is not here to comment that I have seen on Twitter, that there are tweeters who write his name with about a kilo to compare it to the top leader of North Korea. You must be because you see in the president a traditionalist leader at the height..., a guardian of the essences at the height of the North Korean leader. And I'm the truth that when I see him looking with eyes of love at the català that presided over the Council of the Republic, or when I see him singing It's goodbye time with the national pass of a Juche activist, I understand the parallelism with the president. But today we come to talk about nuclear security out of the way that we're trying to get him out of character and mark differences. Nuclear energy is not a guarantee of respect for any country in the world, especially if they do not have international alliances at their height, and it is not a safe path for the future of Catalonia's citizens. Catalonia imports 100 % of the uranium consumed by its nuclear power plants and, therefore, is not guaranteed either energy sovereignty or independence from external markets. And, besides, as we saw in the case of Fukushima, the year 2011, or Vandellòs, the year 1989, is not a safe way to produce energy for the conjunction of Catalonia. Catalonia has memory and it's time to claim that it was the city and popular movement that claimed the lock after the accident, not one of the reactors, but the two Vandellòs nuclear reactors. Today Esquerra's companies are presenting us with a motion to talk about nuclear security, and we have presented three points that have been accepted by us, because talking about nuclear security investments in this country does not come back to be the excuse to extend the administrative concessions of nuclear power plants without exception. The administrative concessions expire in 2020, in the case of Vandellós II, and in 2021 in the case of Ascó I i d'Ascó II. The Catalan law of climate change gives a margin a little wider for the denuclearization of Catalonia until 2027. But including assuming this margin, the time to talk seriously about nuclear safety, nuclear dismantling and energy sovereignty is now; now it is time to talk about it, after decades of dismantling our industrial fabric, to condemn Catalonia to national and labour insecurity, to rebuild our product fabric. And it's time and the historic opportunity to demand the government of the state to force private operators who have been running with cash from the one who assumes the costs of nuclear dismantling. Just as it is now the historic opportunity to demand the Government of the State to open a foundation for the social and economic development of the territory that ends with a decade of austerity, abandonment of the territory and sun taxes, and to allow Catalonia to lead a new energy and product model. That is why we have presented the three issues, because talking about security is not the excuse not to talk about the future product and energy that Catalonia needs. We will vote positively for the motion, as it could not be in any other way. It is time to demand the State seriously with nuclear security in Catalonia, but what we want is for the Government of the Generality, when it sits with the Government of the State, to sit there with a productive and energetic proposal of its own that allows to build a different future in Catalonia. A proposal that you post for energy sovereignty, that is nothing else to bet on for renewable energies and why Catalonia can rebuild its product fabric, and, above all, that the workers do not become, as they have been in the case of the sale of weapons to Saudi Arabia, the currency of change to cover the shames of no one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.90.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.91.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, counsel, we cannot see that we live in a situation of normality. There have been reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State claims more than two hundred years in prison. That is why I also accuse this Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the case and, of course, the release of all reprisals and reprisals. We won't give up. Mirin, today, we talk about energy, and talking about energy is talking about the future. This also had to "resolve the problems of the Catalans, it also had to throw into our country, but the Spanish State, historically, has not done its dues in terms of energy, and we now want to build our own future. A future that must be an example of sustainability and competitiveness in order to maintain the Catalan model of productive economy, an economic activity that creates skilled jobs, which must also be sustainable. That is why we have no doubt that we need to align ourselves with the objectives proposed for the European Union to complete the 32_per_cent tape in renewable energy by 2030. And to do so, to take over our users, to take over our businesses, I consider that one of the pillars of our sovereignty passes through this energetic independence. Eliminate, as Catalonia's company said in Comú Podemos, sun taxes, talk seriously about self-consumption, promote closed networks for our industry. With the 16/2017 Climate Change Law of August 1, we already put the foundations for this energy transition plan, which goes through decarbonization, decentralization of these networks, obviously, for digitization, but also for denuclearization. And that's why the debate on energy takes more strength than ever, and especially nuclear energy. This chamber has already been defined about the future of nuclear power plants in Catalonia, and already in this bill there was a transitional plan for its closure, which did not go any further, as was said, in 2027, old, but in a very important way, for the preservation of working places, direct and indirect, and for the plans of reindustrialisation in our country. This period of time, however, must serve us to drive this energetic transition. We know that this is a great effort for the energy companies themselves, but also for the Administration that must be at the side, in all areas, especially, as I say, at the side of the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, with the plans for reindustrialisation and the pocket of the mayors and mayors of the areas in which they are to have an impact. For what it does to the content of this young man, it is important to note that responsibility for nuclear security is state, and the Spanish State, historically, has failed to do so. I, why am I saying that? Point number 1: We have infrastructures pending to execute and to finish widely demanded for our territories, which are absolutely necessary in case of a hypothetical situation of nuclear emergence, such as the A-7 and, why not? The A-27. Even at the railway level, the R15 line, as Mr Salvado commented, or, at the very least, the appropriate equipment in the referral hospital services in nuclear-contaminated detoxification tasks. After one year, the State is about to give a compliment to the transposition of Directive 2014/87 Euratom, which, as I said, has been out for a year, right? , and that establishes this better of the installations in the field of security. This gives us coverage for a new Plaben, that is, for a new framework of basic plans, and also for our Penta. Therefore, we have an Interior Department that is prepared to assume, in terms of management, these security plans, and we ask that the State let us do the work, because we are constituted and that we are building the future, and we want to leave our dues, that we are already prepared to pull it forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.92.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now is the turn of Mr. Francisco Javier Domínguez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.93.0	Thank you, President. Well, it is true that the new 2014 directive of the European Union, had to have been transposed into the Spanish legal order before August 2017, so we will support that point, even though they have not accepted the amendment. It is also true that there is a new version of the Plaben, of the Basic Nuclear Emergency Plan, which runs around in a drawer, which already has the approval of the Nuclear Security Council and is pending approval; first, it was pending by the PP Government, and now it is pending approval by the PSOE Government, with the support of Convergence at the time. Nevertheless, we will also support this point, so that this plan can be approved and that the new Penta, which is the external nuclear emergency plan of Tarragona, can be drafted, even though they have not accepted our contributions either. What I don't understand is that they don't want the collaboration agreements between the Generalitat and the CSN to be renewed. They have not accepted this, that one could indeed work from the Generalitat. It is also true that seeking resources to implement emergency plans is the most legitimate thing in the world, and we will also support that point. But so far our support for this motion, because we use these obvious weaknesses that must be claimed, to set up a narrative that seeks to show a situation of chaos, that security in the face of a possible nuclear emergency is a disaster. And this is a very dangerous irresponsibility. In addition to questioning the professionalism of the CSN technicians, the centrals and all those responsible for security and emergency, it also creates a distrust among the population that does not help in any way the actions of the Penta. And it's just, on top of that, it's not entirely true. The International Atomic Energy Agency, in an article dated 26 October, says that the team of experts of this organization has pointed out that Spain has shown a strong commitment to nuclear safety. Although it makes recommendations to improve coordination during the emergency, and the CSN must complete cooperation agreements with other authorities. And on that line were our amendments, which have been rejected. And there is one thing that seems to me much worse than lying, that is to say truths mixed with half truths and statements that are related but are not entirely..., have nothing to do with it. One of these is to present nuclear weapons as old, outdated facilities, designed with safety standards of the 1940s. In fact, in Spain, in order to renew authorizations, it is obliged to update the security facilities, protocols and measures to the legislation in force at that time, which is not the case in all Western countries. Then, the idea that the power stations are out of date is false. In the exhibition part it is said that in the summer period, in a radius of twenty kilometers there are hundreds of thousands of people. I'm not saying it's not true, but, I don't know if they all fit in 20 kilometers round. Anyway, it's a way of exaggerating the situation a little bit. Another point would be the bad state of the R15, with poor access to the stations, which are also closed, which would make it difficult to evacuate. But does anyone really think that in a nuclear emergency, people will be evacuated through the train? That is, really, that the R15 has shortcomings and that we have to improve the line, because we all agree, but trying to sneak it through here, because it does not seem to me the most... Better to make a specific motion of mobility, than to include it here in the security measures of emergency plans. I don't think we have to confuse people. Then it has been said that no simulations are made, except partial dispatch simulations. And it is true that there are no general simulations, but that is why we in Congress too will ask why no government delegate in Catalonia, neither the PP nor the PSOE, have required these simulations if they are so necessary. But really they have made simulations with the intervention of the UME, of the security bodies, of the Generalitat, of the Civil Protection, of the health and of the municipalities. So, the real goal, what was it? To present a fatalistic scenario in order to impose a new tax and to request the transfer of the Penta. As for the new tax, the appeal should be decided by the Constitutional Court, and as for the transfer, based on a malfunction, it is the same as always: that what the Generalitat manages is better managed. And this, if we're going to manage the Penta just like the L9, that l'ATLL, or that the Snake-Garrigues, gives me real panic. And so far my intervention. Just a brief reflection from the director of Fukushima, who was saying that Fukushima's accident came to light...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.94.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.95.0	... – yes, I will soon finish – certain shortcomings, which was that the responsibilities were divided between several agencies and it was not always clear which one of them was the authority. So we're going to try not to play with nuclear safety. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.96.0	All right, Congressman. It has the word, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.97.0	Sir, President, to speak from the Escó. Simply to explain why we are neither in favour nor against this motion, and we will abstain. On the central content of this motion, which obviously refers to security plans needed by nuclear power plants, with the original text we were against, but we think that the transactions to which it has come, where we are specifically talking about the dismantling or closure of nuclear power plants and, finally, about occupational alternatives, obviously, we are in favour. We are not in favour – and this is the second question we want to move – of the fact that if we look at the joint motion, we see, then we point out: "Require the State, "Require the State, "Require the State and "Require the State. It seems to us that the State is required to have its obligations, but we think that, before the permanent failure we know of the Spanish State, we must have alternatives. Demanding is one, but we must not ask others, that it is making those realities effective that the Spanish State does not give an answer, and more with a theme like this. And the third question, about the first and second points of this motion, must have seen that we refer to asking and demanding, in fact, again to the State, the compliment or transposition of two directives from the European Union. So look, the one that has a late month transposition date is August 15, 2017. You must know what the direct, vertical effect of the directives means, that, in a very global way, what you assume is that by the state – in fact, by the joint administration – even though a directive has not been transposed, you can demand its compliment, not ask it to be transposed, but demand it. Therefore, they make a request to the Spanish State, if the Spanish State does not complete the vagina in the court, and we will discover two things, if we go to court: one of two, that these courts in the European Union do not work or, on the contrary, the exercise of a right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.98.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, and on behalf of his Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, it's Mr Santi Rodríguez's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.99.0	Thank you, President. We share a good part of the motion that is before the debate and that we are debating with regard to nuclear safety, but the one that raises the most doubts is the terminology used, not only in the writing of the motion, but also in the defence of this one. And, therefore, we believe, it gives us the impression, that, more than the will that effectively leads to the completion of legislative reforms and the modification of security plans, what is being sought is to create a certain alarm with regard to this issue. What I think we have to say is: it is true that this adequacy of the legislation is lacking, it is true that the adequacy of these emergency plans is necessary, it is true that these new emergency measures will be adopted in order to adapt to this new European directive, it is also true, and that the European directive could be directly implemented without transposition, if it is not; but what is not true is that at this point there is less certainty than the day before the deadline for transposing the directives has expired. The security level is exactly the same. Does it have to get better? Yeah, obviously. Therefore, we will give support, we will vote favorably for this young man, except – I think that with another group we have agreed on the same – on point 5 and point 6. The 5, which is the one that refers to his tax allowance and to the application once more of that..., of all kinds of taxes, and the 6 is the one that refers to the fact that the Generality assumes, in some way, nuclear security competitions. We believe that it is not appropriate to secrete nuclear security competition and therefore we will also vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.100.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, and finally, to position himself on the accepted or rejected items, has the new word the deputy Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.101.0	Some quick comments on the questions posed by the table linked to the questions raised. Ask him to..., or aggravate, in principle, the partial support of various groups. In this sense, I have not been able, we have not been able to deal with the Socialist Party group, among other things because its focus is to require the Government of the Generality to demand the Government of the State. And, surely, what would be more reasonable is that, as a government party to the Spanish State, they directly assume their role as a government party and that, instead of demanding the Generality to have 50 per cent of a tax that at the same time is not unlocking, they do what they correspond, that is to create a social foundation that, of the thousands of millions of euros that enter from nuclear power stations, does not devote a part to doing what is compulsory to do, that is to prepare plans for dismantling and social plans. About Ciutadans comments. Do you know, the sound of Salou, Cambrils, the Ametlla de Mar, where there are hundreds of thousands of tourists? And that's it, for his information. And, yes, we would like the Penta to be managed as the Plaseqta or is managed as many of the emergence plans that the Generalitat manages. We'd like it to be like that, and it's not bad. And it would be good if..., many of the things that we have incorporated into this motion come literally from a report of the Nuclear Security Council, which regrets in a way the lack of investment by the Government of the State in the management and infrastructure that are going and that are necessary for a good management of the Penta plan. We have accepted the papers in the general line of both the group of commons and the group of Juntes for Catalonia because it seems to us that they improve and enrich the movement. And finally, recognizing... we haven't talked about internal security, that's right. Deures have been made in the internal security of nuclear power plants and there has been no deures in the external security and in the emergency plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.102.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the intervention, Mr Rodríguez asked to vote separately 5 and 6. I don't know if together... [[Pause.]] Yeah? Any other separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? So we'll vote, first, points 5 and 6... [[The President of the Generalitat asks to speak.]] Yes, say'm, President. [[Pause.]] Say it, say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.103.0	He wasn't present in the Chamber, but there were some words from Mr. Silvano that I'd like to know... whether you, then, kept them or didn't keep them. Certainly the sense of irony that you have does not coincide with mine. That's obvious. It may not coincide with the thousands and thousands of boys and girls who go to this country's arena and cause. In any case... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, I don't know... it's possible they don't match it either. In any case, I felt offended by the comparison you made with respect for me and a dictator with whom I seem to all agree that it is aberrant. Therefore, I would like to know whether or not you maintained this offense. [[Lucas Silvano Ferro Sole asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.104.0	Say it, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.105.0	Mr President, I have begun, as you have said, my intervention in defence of parliamentary irony, at a time when this morning we have seen words that I think are bigger than this. I said it in an ironic way. If you felt offended, I disciplinedly withdrew it, but I said it in an ironic way, and I think this should be made clear. And I think that at a time when irony and political satire... weighs on them the condemnation of censorship, except that everyone assumes an ironic and satirical spirit in the things that are said and we don't have the hair so thin. But anyway, I'm pulling it out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.106.0	All right. So now yes, let's go, or let's start voting on this... tell me, Mr. Carrizosa. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.107.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.108.0	I asked if there were any other groups calling for separate votes and they told me no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.109.0	It's just that I raised my hand...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.110.0	So say, say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.111.0	...but Mr. Torra was there and you repaired him before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.112.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.113.0	Point four, please. Oh, I'm sorry... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, the 4th? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.114.0	The 4th? I 6? [[Someone says: "No, the 4 for a song and the 5 i 6 separately.]] The 4 on one side, and the 5 and 6 on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.115.0	And the 5th and the 6th for others.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.116.0	All right. So we will vote, first, point 4, then 5 and 6 together, and the rest of the motion to end. So, let's start the vote with point 4. The vote begins. This was approved by 86 votes to 40. Let's now vote points 5 and 6, together. The vote begins. This was approved by 67 votes to 38, with 21 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 122 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into road safety]] [[302-00024/12]] We continue now with the next item on the agenda, the 20th September, which is the motion following the question to the Government on road safety, presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Josep Riera. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.117.0	Thank you, President. Counselress, deputies, deputies, guests, can't make us see that we live in a normal situation. There are reprisals, exiles and political prisoners, to whom the State claims more than two hundred years in prison. That is why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. We won't give up. So, yes, we have no intention of normalizing this exceptional situation, and as many groups of this chamber insist on this false normality, we will put into evidence the abnormality situation whenever there is any. Because even though some of us, like Mrs. Arrimadas now, often say that they are tired, we work for Catalonia we are not tired, or that we will work in normal things, but we will not fail to put into evidence the abnormality. Today, our normal work leads us to talk about this movement of road safety that comes from the inquiry that I myself did to the Councillor of the Interior fifteen days ago. I will not repeat to them the figures, which, in fact, are already collected in the speech of motion of the young man. I would like to point out that in the last week's long chapter, Tots Sants's, did not produce a fatal victim to Catalan reelers. So good that it is an indicator that we are moving well, that the intensification of all measures to reverse the negative trend of the last months begins to take effect and that we return to the tendency to continue approaching the goal of zero victims, so good! This young man we're debating today insists on this job. This is why it urges the Generalitat to continue and intensify police controls in the Catalan road network, with good coordination of the Squadre Mossos and local police. They are also conducting preventive campaigns, such as training and education actions now directed to different collections, because the problem is the same, but the situations are different. It is also time to incorporate technological innovations into this struggle against left-handedness. And here's camp to run. And, more globally, the process of integral improvement of the road network must be maintained. And for what we can do from here, from this Parliament, apart from the Generality to take all these possible measures, it is to make reflections like the one that he set them fifteen days ago with a very simple example: if while we are talking about any of us from this rostrum would not be afraid to take the phone, then why do we do it when we are driving? So let's think, think about it, plant the people around us in what situations they don't need to take the furniture, and why do they do it when we drive? Let's think about it and let's get out of this feeling, because I think it's a job we can do from here. And, in this young man, who is a politician but also has a high level of humanity – all of us are sensitive to the victims of accidents – would not want to end this intervention without another reflection, or another prec, that links with what Congressman Guinó made yesterday about doing politics and having humanity, and keeping it in the situation of reprisals, exiles and political prisoners. I thank interventions like that of Congresswoman Moreta, yesterday, who claimed her empathy and humanity towards the situation of prisoners and exiles. So good that, in addition to the words, they pass to the facts; so good, because, unfortunately – and I am very sorry, indeed – their group continues to settle in the attitude that they showed the day that there were the relatives of the prisoners in the six of the guests, that they did not pose dempeus, neither applauded, nor looked at them in the face. Or installed in which Mr.Iceta said – I don't remember if it was the same day – that he told us that he was coming here to do politics, not humanism, as if one thing and the other could not be compatible. Rethink it, prove it with facts and start going well. I also address the PP and the Ciutadans group, although in repeated interventions like that of Mrs Roldán yesterday it seems difficult that they are willing to do politics with humanity. I won't answer it, Jordi Turull will answer it, Mrs Roldán. Turull said in a tweet: "The only privilege he offers me is to know people who, all their business, are much more humane and morally uplifted than some members of Parliament with whom I have shared so many moments. I pray I'll never be like them. Think about it. Can you imagine how a strictly political debate could be about the self-determination of Catalonia without pressure, without exile, without justice, without police interfering in democracy? To discuss with Mr. Junqueras? With Mr. Jordi Sánchez? That would be to approach normality. Think about it, think about it all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.118.0	It has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the lady Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.119.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. I'll talk to you about the Movement of Road Safety, among other things because the increase in left-handedness in 2018 is about 20_per_cent over the 17th and, therefore, it's a topic that we should all be concerned about, and because we have a common goal, which is that of victims zero in 2050. That's why I'm going to stare at the content of this government's presentation, which is a little surprising, because on October 30th, the government approved the performance programme for the year 2018 and more to reduce the left-handedness of the Catalan road network, from the 2017-2019 Road Safety Board. And if one reads the measures that the government approved at that session on the 30th, then they're from the youth. Perhaps in any absence, it is perhaps more complete the plan of government than the same young woman and, of course, I wonder why this young woman came forward, among other things perhaps to say that the Government is completing what the Parliament approves. In this case, I would like to congratulate the Government, because it has been faster than Parliament. Anyway, if we want to talk about road safety, let's do it, and let's do it seriously, because actually the data is clear. And, besides, they're very stingy. Every year, when the announcements of the DGT or the Generality come out – they come into our lives, huh? , these announcements – with the cruelty of the facts or the cruelty of the consequences, we all debate much about the need or not of these messages. But remember that behind every accident there is a father, a mother, a brother or a German is important and, therefore, attend to it. And this is a call to collective responsibility, and this is a topic of collective responsibility, responsibility on the part of all. I once said that, I have presented some papers, my group, to this young man, papers that have not been accepted. Despite everything, we would vote for this young man, among other things for which he gave them and because my group believes in the importance of working for road safety. But there is one issue, and I appreciate the presence of the counselor here, which worries me. That is to say, we talk a lot about preventive campaigns, about controls of the main risk factors, and we are all agreed – talking by phone... well, now we're not talking, we're sending messages: "I'm already coming... We're coming, eh? – but, well, the transport of passengers, the transport of goods, school transport. But this is not only with good coordination with the local police, as the same young man says, but also with a lack of effectiveness in the Unit of Transit of the Squadron Mosses, and you know it, counselor, more than two-hundred_five hundred are missing..., a summons must be made to reach a name not less than two-hundred_five hundred, which is what the unions and, above all, the Squadron Mosses destined for the Unit of Transit are demanding. They didn't want to accept it. It's a unit in which there are many downloads every year, many downloads for demotivation, and maybe it's that we're not able to recognize the important task that Mosso's companies do in this sense. That's to say, we do many prevention campaigns, because prevention is the most important element, but if they haven't moved the reels to make the best element, which is deterrence, because, listen to me, a lot of radar ads, but when I see a brake move, huh? I mean, somehow, I think it's important. Also, I am grateful that we have accepted the thought that refers to incorporating the great people as one of the most vulnerable collectivities, among other things, because in the urban cores all the overruns of travellers are produced with great people and, therefore, we talk about road education, talking a lot about school, and there are collectivities that also need our attention. And, finally, two more issues that have not been accepted by us and that we believe to be very important. We believe that a lot of intelligence needs to be put in place, that technology needs to be done, that research needs to be done, that we need to be very preventive and that we need to call for collective responsibility, but we also need to call on the administration's task to keep our infrastructure on the road, with the use, with the design, with the look. And, therefore, we asked for a map of left-wingness and what measures, say, from the Territorial Commission or from the department that follows, are in place to improve those infrastructures that do not meet clear prevention criteria. And you know it: a thousand times, many times has been commented. I would ask you that if we wanted to talk about security, we would do it in this Parliament, we would do it seriously, and we would take one of the most important measures, which is prevention, as a daily task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.120.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's the word now, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr. Alfonso Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.121.0	Thank you, President. Look, before we start, I find it regrettable that you have used a motion on road safety to none of the victims of traffic accidents and that you are talking about your friend from Waterloo. This is not conceivable. [[Greetings.]] Now let's talk about road safety. Well, we have read carefully this motion presented to us by Junts per Catalunya, and we have not just seen what they propose at all. You, in the question to the Councillor, in the previous plenary session, put your hands to the head when you showed the reality on our roads, that we are suffering 20_per_cent more victims, that the number of wounded does not stop growing, that we are concerned about these alarming figures, and you go and present this, that it does not propose anything new, has nothing new, and with this you show that you do not know how to stop the increase of the victims on our roads. You propose to continue with the current containment and control plans, continue with the current road education training, continue to collaborate only with the local police. You intend to continue with a management that has proved to be absolutely incapable of ending deaths on the road. But do you know what's going on? That going on, when things aren't doing the best they can, it's not enough. The Councillor, in the previous plenary session, told us about awareness campaigns such as "Tots haveim family, and that there would be more. Of course, of course we all want a zero horizon for 2050, and we totally agree, but that is the end of road safety. But the challenge, the equation to solve is how we eliminate the danger on the Catalan roads. Awareness and information campaigns in the media are necessary, but do not remain there. What if we inform drivers directly on the road? The information panels of highways and secondary roads must be updated in real time with what we are in front of. Is it done? Yeah, but not always. It would not be the first time that, going along the road, I find myself with a bright panel where he puts « Bon viatge, « Good journey, and after a few kilometers, I find myself with a retention, with the surprise that we take all the drivers and the relevant braking. Why don't you do it backwards? Why not inform the drivers a few miles earlier so that this surprise becomes a forecast and then let us move from surprise and braking to anticipation and tranquillity? These information panels, which are also your responsibility, should keep them in real time. In the past, the counsel appealed to individual responsibility. Of course, the use of belts, the elimination of alcohol and drug use, distractions, the use of mobile phones... But the council also has responsibilities: the state of the roads, roads that do not comply with the regulations, works that never end, black spots, bad signage, killer guardrails... And does that ring a bell or not? Our group has tabled three amendments, on points 1, 2 and 5, which, by the way, have not been accepted, all of which are aimed at not continuing with what has been done so far, but at ensuring that they are genuinely committed to road safety, which affects all Catalans. And I would like to explain our last amendment, on item 5, so that you understand that you have to work with all the police. I give you an example: a drunk driver is standing on the border with France by the Civil Guard. And, in the face of this situation, the Civil Guard does what it does, logically, is to call the Mossos d'Esquadra to send a device and then be able to perform the drug and alcohol test. The Mosses aren't coming. A second call is made and after waiting and waiting a third call is made, where already the Mossos d'Esquadra informs that they will not send a device because they have no one to send. So we are joined, on the one hand, by the lack of cooperation between police and, on the other, by the lack of troops and means. We prioritize resources to allocate those to what we should, so that the Mossos Corps can dispose of those more than 40_million_of_euros that you allocate to the computer bubble of the process, and to provide them with the resources they need. And, in the end, what happens is that this drunk border driver sleeps for a few hours in the car and then leaves without really knowing his state and if it is a danger to himself and to others. Open your eyes. This. [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] It's not enough for nothing. Security is an issue that concerns us all and all political parties must follow...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.122.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.123.0	It's over, President. We must join efforts to make our roads safer and safer every day, and, as counsel, together with the Government, put the batteries in place and find the resources necessary to fight traffic accidents together. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.124.0	It has the word now, on behalf of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.125.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, advisor, deputies and deputies, the year 2017 was closed with an increase of 12_percent of people killed in traffic accidents. The first half of 2018 recorded an increase of 42_percent of deaths and 30_percent of fatal accidents compared to the same period of the past year. The head of the General Mobility Commission of the Mossos d'Esquadra, Mr. Vicenç Gasulla, in an informative appearance made a few points, a first balance of this semester of the year 2018, in which we are, which takes a lot of data from the past year. She said, and I think it should be a collective reflection, which increases mortality in holiday days compared to 2017, that of 21 people killed in the year 17, it has passed to 40 in holiday days. He also tells us that there is a multi-victimization, that in about 20 percent of the accidents of this first semester, two or more people died during the same period last year. Tell us that speed is excessive or inadequate and that this increases by 11_per_cent this semester, with the same causes of the past year, which is a recurring factor, the increase in speed. It also tells us that alcohol and drugs in accidents recorded in special traffic operations are increasing by 12_per_cent, detecting these substances in accidents. And finally, you also tell us this report that distracts you, even though you don't grow up to last year, you still have a 24-per-cent package in all fatal and heavy accidents. I think it would be important to retain these data. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of this motion. We are basically in agreement with its content, because it is true that we must continue to apply the Containment Platform and the coordination of the Squadron Movements and local police in the joint implementation of preventive campaigns; that we must continue training and education activities on the road, that we must implement measures to minimize left-wingness, especially in the educational field, and that we must develop specific programmes for the great people in this area that the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Forward-looking Units has succeeded in introducing into the text. That we need to drive innovation and technological research projects, and that we need to continue working with local police – key, local police – to carry out control and vigilance tasks. And, finally, what we need to continue discussing is what's going on. The mark of this debate is, of course, the road safety strategy for the 2021-2030 decade. He knows perfectly well the counselor that we are stretching from the objects that in this strategy they have acquired. And, obviously, we need to talk about the new road safety plan for the year 2020-2022; only collective reflection, measurements, the increase in the staff of the Squadron Mosses can help to stop this situation so worrying that day-to-day data strikes us and tells us that more people, more Catalans and Catalans leave their lives to Catalan reelers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.126.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of Parliament Mrs Maria Sirvent has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.127.0	Yes; this proposal, this motion to bring us to debate, six points, in three talks about continuing to do what is already done, and, therefore, bearing in mind that we do not agree with what is done, therefore, does not seem to us to be an appropriate proposal. Why? So, why this proposal above all makes people, drivers very responsible, but in no case does it talk about the causes and why and who policies have been developed until today. We see an urban planning that has absolutely boldly encouraged the use of the private vehicle and that has relegated the travellers to a _second plan. We also see that there is no clear bet for a public transport that is universal access, that it is efficient, that it is sustainable and that it reaches all the way, and therefore we also agree that many people make use of the private vehicle because they are captivated users of this means of transport because they do not have another alternative. And we understand that the causes should be addressed precisely and that the issue should be resolved. Making a resolution proposal in generic terms that, we repeat, urges you to continue doing what is already done when the data tells us that the situation is not right, so we believe it is not the solution. Making a little collection about innovation and research, so we've already seen that it's not a solution either. And, therefore, we will not vote at this point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.128.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.129.0	Yes, thank you, President. To make it clear that we will initially support this young man; we will support this young man because we believe that all the proposals he is making in the direction of..., that what they intend to do is to help improve road safety deserve the support of the People's Party. Now, I also have to say to you, with all sincerity, that when I saw you, I listened to the intervention of the representative of the group who proposed this young man, I was surprised, because he used almost 70_percent of his time, not to explain who were the goodies or positive proposals of this young man, but that he was told about the policies that are in store for us, he was talking to us..., he was criticizing the State, and then he made some reference, yes, to the content of this, which denotes very little will to deal with the problem seriously and with the gain of adding and bringing in those aspects that can help in this both, as well as the future. To point out that... because this young man, who sees one of the groups that is ruling at these times here, to the Government of Catalonia, has credibility, we believe that he lacks..., we believe that it would be a good thing that the Government of the Generality, in accordance with this philosophy that we can share, dedicate more economic resources to life security, would be interesting. And here the counselor knows that he has our support that the possibility is raised to increase the staff of agents who are at work, traffic activities, the squadron mosses, because the result can be still more positive, right? But, frankly, I have to tell you that one thing is the paper and the will that you put into this document, which, I insist, we can..., and we will share it, and the other, very different, what we have heard here today, which, unfortunately, we believe is a disappointing basis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.130.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Congresswoman Montserrat Fornells.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.131.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies and deputies, good morning to everyone. You have a special record for all political prisoners and prisoners, exiles and exiles, and especially for Carme Forcadell. We're gonna get you a pound. We find ourselves in front of a motion on road safety, a subject that we have been very concerned about since our group, as we have already transferred to Councillor Buch when he appeared in the Committee on the Interior, and we are particularly concerned about the increase and resuming of mortality and accident at Catalan roadblocks two years later, and that we can apply urgent measures to minimize this accident. The strategic safety plan approved in 2014 stated that the target for 2020 was to reduce deaths by 50_per_cent compared to 2010. There was a good dynamic in the last few years, this is about these last two years, that there has been a surge of accidents and mortality. Traffic accidents are a serious social problem, as all public administrations and society have the greatest attention to address it. It must be an absolute priority, a basic theme of the country, and we must work cross-cuttingly to put all the tools we have in the abst, already from the school teaching road education, with nine advertising campaigns, with us posters and nine signals, also with the better of some sections of reel that are critical points. The company has to be aware of the situation, that driving is a very big responsibility, because it affects your life and that of others; to be aware that when we push a car, a vehicle, we have to do it in full power and also when we drive we have to comply with all the traffic regulations. Last October 30th the Government approved the 2018 Programme for Road Safety, with the aim of reducing the left side to the Catalan road network. This program consists of one hundred and twenty-five actions in five hundred and nine activities and six strategic objectives. As, for example, to protect users from mobility and control of risk conduits and also to coordinate all public and private entities to have secure mobility. It is true that we find ourselves far from the target of the time marked zero victims for the year 2050, but we are certainly struggling and working to try to achieve this end. And so that all parliamentary groups work together, work together and help to raise awareness of society to make it possible. It's a country repte, it's a repte that asks us all and everyone. In 2017, in Catalonia, there were 220 deaths, 220 fatal accidents where 248 people lost their lives; a 7.4_per_cent more than the previous year. Some shady data that we all have to put in. Distractions such as mobile use, radio, or infractions such as speeding or alcohol are the main factors in traffic accidents. A 29_per_cent of the people who died in 2017 were motorists i, a 5_per_cent, cyclists. Two vulnerable collections that we need to focus attention and training. Improving the security of our country's life must be a priority objective of the Government, of all the members and deputies and of the joint venture of society. The Català Transit Service, together with and collaborating with all public and private entities related to mobility, have to work folds to reduce left-wingness, both on long-distance and urban roads. Folding has to work to advance towards safer, more sustainable, healthier and victimless mobility. With regard to the motion in question, we agree with those points that are being raised, such as establishing containment plans with police controls; new preventive campaigns; promoting training and education actions; and measures to minimize left-wingness. Also in agreement with the message accepted by the PSC that it presented on a specific program to the great people; the implementation of the new technologies; the collaboration with local police with control, vigilance, and also collaboration with the joints to establish local security plans. Throughout the presentation, our group will vote in favour of this motion. And we will vote for it with hope and desire that we can achieve the goals and reduce and end the mortal victims to the reels, and with the breakdown of many families. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.132.0	Finally, to pronounce on the papers has the word the deputy Josep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.133.0	Thank you, President. On the papers we did not accept those of Citizens, basically because it was trying to add National Police and Civil Guard every time we referred to the Mosos, and you know that the competition in transit is from the Mosos d'Esquadra to all the territories, and from the local police to the municipalities. We have accepted one of the elements of the PSC, which is intended for the collection of the great people. The others were not, basically because they were already included in the text of the motion. And Mrs. Escarp, I mean, help us to summon opposition, because I think the ministry also has to see here. To Mr. Sanchez, look at you saying that I've never seen the victims of accidents. Fi. Restate my intervention and recover the inquiry I made fifteen days ago, if any. It's just... Mr Nuet, thanks for the support, for the contributions, the data are what they are. It's true, it's alarming and the counselor here has already explained to us the supermeasures between the measures that were already being applied and that it's a bit of what we're trying to do in this young man. Mr. Albiol, I've been talking about... I've already told you that I wouldn't just talk about the young man because the situation is exceptional. The situation is what it is and you don't like it, but the situation is what it is. And we would insist that the situation is not normal, that it is exceptional and that it is abnormal. And we'll insist on the times you need, I mean, whether you're doing well or not. And Mrs. Fornells, finally, many thanks for the support, for all and for this call to the unit, which seems to me to have been a good colloquium for this young man. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.134.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.135.0	For a call to the observance of the Rules, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.136.0	Say, Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.137.0	In concrete terms, it complies with Article 85.4 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides for the possibility of making calls to the question of the speaker who is speaking. I am referring to the first intervention by Mr Riera, who has just intervened. I think that more than just a little trip, that everyone has always been allowed in this Parliament about any other matter, it is the responsibility of the Presidency to call the interveners to the question, basically because I believe that on occasions it helps not to cry to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.138.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yes; Mrs. Roldán, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.139.0	Yes, thank you, President. According to Article 87, for personal allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.140.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.141.0	Donns..., to the deputy of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Riera, has appointed me in this debate, in which I have not even participated, he has said that I do not have humanity, he has also said that my group does not have humanity... Dehumanizing the political adversary is a basic technique of nationalism. First they do not consider you the village of Catalonia... ( Strong remor de veus.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.142.0	Silences – silences. Escort.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.143.0	...then they dehumanize you, trying to strip you of even your own dignity as a person. I assume, Mr Torrent, that you have called for respect among the Members of this House, so I understand that you will have the same measuring rod. Because respect for the adversary implies, therefore, recognizing his or her condition as a minimum person and human being. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.144.0	All right. We're voting for this young man. They haven't asked for a separate vote, if I don't make a mistake... [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yeah? Say, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.145.0	President, like you on other occasions, you have asked that these demonstrations be withdrawn, I understand that we are in the same situation, and therefore you would ask for your opinion of respect, since the Member does not seem to want to withdraw his accusations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.146.0	Listen to me: you asked for allusions, you addressed the deputy who praised you, you did so, so listen to me, you... I gave you the word to make allusions, you made allusions, the cry to respect the keep, I said, and I said that I would act decisively when I thought it was appropriate and when language was insulting or degrading to the assembly of the deputies or to whom it was directed. In any case, I return to reflect with general character. Before I had to call to order, I hope I don't have to do it, not in this House, but never again. In any case, I will be blunt, as I said, when respect is lacking, but in any case, allow me to convey a reflection to all folds. A reflection around whether they want to continue along this path, through this line, and disrespect, not just yourselves, but through you, at the conjunction of the citizens of this country, who are looking at us and who are seeing these debates, and who are seeing certain expressions. I call them not to degrade this institution, all of them, every hundred and thirty-five. Not to degrade this institution. And that, I insist, went for everyone, and it went for comments, it went for expressions and it went for interventions that all parliamentary groups have made, we might say, from this chamber. It is a general reflection, and I look at the conjunct of the escons, at the conjunct of the deputies and the deputies. In any case, I have said this before, I have done it before, and I will keep it every time it seems to me, that it is the call to order and not let any degrading intervention pass over to any other Member. [[Pause.]] Mr. Riera, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.147.0	For allusions. She put words in my mouth that I didn't say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.148.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.149.0	...and I gave it to a deputy of this chamber who can't be there because he's in prison, and anyway, if they do, I could give it to him because he said that he was in prison yesterday. And that's it. And if you want an apology, you go to jail, and then you ask them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. Let's get to the vote. I understand that there is no separate motion for a vote, at least no group has spoken in this sense. Therefore, we would vote on the joint motion. The vote begins. This motion was approved by 121 votes to none, with no abstentions and four Members or Members present who have not voted. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the guarantee of the exercise of the rights of use in public space]] [[302-00025/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the twenty-night, and in this case it is the motion following the question to the Government on the guarantee of the exercise of the rights to the public, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. It has the word, to defend it, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.151.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counsel, lords and lords deputies. This young man is now more needed than ever. When I asked the government fifteen days ago, listening to Vice-President Aragones, who today's missing find, I made it clear that the decision of the City Parliamentary Group to make a call to the Government of the Generality to guarantee the free exercise of the rights of the people in public space, had been very uncertain, and that this young man we defend today is more necessary than ever. Mirin, Mr. Aragones followed the line of argument of this government that we suffer all Catalans, for which he denies that the best guarantee for the exercise of social and political rights for the defense of the fundamental rights, in order to be able to live in a free, free society, is scrupulous respect for the democratic order, the Constitution, the State of autonomy and the laws. It's clear that Mr. Aragones is who he is and who he is. May I remind you that Mr. Aragones was already part of the government that just over a year ago gave democracy a break. Now fifteen days ago, the Government of the Generalitat once again trivialized the defense of the civil and political rights of most of the citizens of Catalonia. One more time, Mr. Aragonès, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, decided to speak and act for his acòlitas. He spoke only to the believers of the new religion in which the journey has been converted to place proposed to us by the Puigdemont Friends' Club and left with the most corrupt right in this country. This corrupt right that they have just done outside the alliance of liberals and democrats for Europe, precisely for this, for corrupt systemics and for compulsive lies. Mr Mirin, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to point out a few questions which, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, are of the first instance of democracy: when we say 'neutrality', we want to say 'neutrality'. An indispensable attribute for all public administration and any government. One thing is to do politics and manage the public, and another to use public resources with a strictly partisan purpose. It is inadmissible as separatism, which is a minority in Catalonia, has been able to identify the followers, and by exclusion, to identify the dissidents and the disabilities of the separatist cause. It may seem no-res in a metropolitan area like Barcelona or Tarragona, but it is an attitude, a more, unacceptable one in many indreits of Catalonia. Public space must be a space where freedom is breathed. There's a lot of places in Catalonia where people don't breathe, freedom. There is a mass of public spaces in which separatist extremism makes the atmosphere irrespirable for many citizens with full rights. To ensure neutrality, to avoid assimilation and settlement and coercion is the duty of the Government of the Generality and of all of us as Members of this Parliament. It is our obligation to defend all citizens because they enjoy their rights, recognized and defended rights for democratic order, the rights and freedoms to be protected by public authorities. This is why we present this young man, structured in twelve points, who speak of neutrality, of guaranteeing freedom of movement and right to work. Maintain public order with technical, never political criteria. Fighting against violent extremist groups of any kind. To age for the use of public space that makes the right to freedom of expression compatible, gathering and manifestation with pluralism, but preserving them from a continued use by any kind of entity. To avoid systemic counter-demonstrations, which want to limit the right of assembly and demonstration coupled in accordance with democratic order, of institutional loyalty between administrations and with the entities and security forces of the State, to age for loyal and effective collaboration with courts and tribunals. And, finally, however, no less important, to suppress the Office of Civil Rights and Politics, a "xiringuite thought of as a new instrument for separatism, and in what he posed as director of a person who, for his political trajectory in an organization linked to terrorism in Catalonia, could never defend the rights and freedoms of anyone. There's no way to take all the Catalans' hair. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.152.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. To defend the papers presented, has the word Mr Ferran Pedret, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.153.0	Thank you. Thanks, counselors, councillors, deputies and deputies. He made use of the request that he had previously claimed to be in force, that he was making a little tour, I have to say that, once again the interventions of our group president yesterday, in case there will be any phrase or remotely as to which the deputy Riera, of the Group of Joints for Catalonia, quoted earlier. Just because you're in the record. As far as the motion presented to us by the Ciutadans Group is concerned, there is, as usual, a diversity of questions that arise. Some of them have to deal with phonetic rights, and, therefore, with questions that would be worth considering and nurturing much more than a question of an inquiry and a motion, can give place. In this sense, the ideas that we have presented, that have been some, have come to try to contribute to this weighting of rights in play and this matter, we believe, necessary, and have, in general terms, been well received by the group that proposed the motion, and in this sense, in the points where we have been able to agree, therefore, there will be the manifestation of this agreement in the form of a favorable vote, but in others, we have not... – nor have we expressed, that is also true – they cannot count on our support. But, of course, when we talk about questions with which they are planted, we start to talk about extremely delicate questions, with balances that must be very well compensated. When we speak, for example, of the "necessity of neutrality of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia", we agree, obviously. But what cannot be done is to require the workers and workers of the Catalonian Government or of any administration, that they cannot concentrate before their own of their own of their administrations by reason that they may go, sometimes, beyond the strictly trade union ones, than they have to see strictly with the relation of work that binds them to the Administration. Because, if that were the case, I think we would be denying a significant part of trade union freedom, as it is internationally collected, also to the Constitution, and therefore it did not seem relevant to us and we understand that the group proposing the text has reflected on this, and that from the compromise we have been able to agree on this. Also, it respects manifestations contained in paragraph 3 of the motion, which to us seemed, too, let us say, that they were facing the right of vagaries. We understand that the right of way is perfectly compatible with the right to work, with the right to movement, and that it is one, let's say, a false dilemma that is raised every time we have, for example, a general right, right? What, therefore, did not seem assumable to us, is that there was a whole text – in detail, I must say with full respect, but it seems to me to be little liberal tradition – a whole text that pretended, let's say, a wave of vagueness without conflict, which is impossible in itself, right? Waves are an expression of social and political conflict, often, and therefore develop as the conflict they are. Which does not mean that the rights of all citizens should not be protected, participate or not participate in the wave. Then, respect the question of violence or the vandal acts that may have occurred around manifestations, concentrations or sometimes without direct link with manifestations or concentrations across all these last months, more than a year, we want to point out that it seems like an error of analysis to try, let us say, an exercise on its part, to say that it is only the others who, sometimes, have erred in this type of behavior. It seems to us that this deserves a collective reflection, and at some point we have been carrying texts trying to make a unanimous declaration of this Parliament in compliance with these questions. It does not seem to us that it is possible to refer only to a political or social actor as responsible for what has happened to the streets, and it seems to us very worrying, for example, the revival of violent activities of extreme right-wing groups and individuals, does it not? Some, let's say, very well-known and recent, that could have had, therefore, painful consequences. But, therefore, we ask, too, and in the few seconds that we are left, a more serene and calmer reflection than we can do here on the question of the plurality of public space. Because, we understand that public space must not be neutral, nor can it be an aseptic space, it is also a disputed space, a space in which there is expression of the social and political conflicts of any society, and that, in any case, what it is about is to guarantee its pluralism and that everyone can exercise their freedoms in equal conditions. And, therefore, it is not a matter of asking anyone to remove banners from public space or to remove links from public space, but to ensure that there is no such occupation of public space as to make it impossible for others to exercise their rights freely. And that's what we've been trying to do with our contributions, and we hope there can be a more general consensus and we can keep talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.154.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Next, to fix the position has the word, for the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pomão, Mr Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.155.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies, today the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans presents us with a motion to which we will not support. And we will not do so because we believe, we are convinced, that it is contrary to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, to the Spanish Constitution, to the Statute of Catalonia and to the common sense of advanced democracy. Citizens propose to us a true Big Brother, a Big Brother that could only be supported constitutionally under a declaration of state of exception; a state of exception that is a proposal that could only be embraced by extreme right political organizations. This is why we will not support it: because the freedom of expression is a right of speech, collected in the new article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; because the Spanish Constitution, in its article 20, regulates the right of expression; in article 21, it also regulates the right of assembly, which says that it must be peaceful and unarmed; also in article 28, of the Spanish Constitution, it recognizes the right to freedom of speech, a right of speech; also in article 21.1, of the Spanish Constitution, it recognizes the right of demonstration; also in article 29, of the State of Catalonia, it recognizes the right of participation in the public spaces of this country, and the freedom of expression of the European Charter. Finally, and finally, the Spanish Constitution, in its article 20, provides for the suspension of the right to express and freely disseminate thoughts, ideas and opinions only in the event that you have declared the state of exception or the state of siege. If they fly, they take a step further. We know who they are, but maybe some people who still don't see them have to find out. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.156.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. For the Parliamentary Subgroup CUP - Crida Constituent, the lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.157.0	Okay. First of all, let's start, today, by sending a solid and loving embrace to Carme Forcadell, to the president of this Parliament, and especially to her family. [[Greetings.]] And concretely to her mother, who these days has had to overcome the pain of thinking that maybe she said years are too much to see her daughter in freedom. To these seas, who was to tell them that they would live the black night again? Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, you do not want a neutral public space, we have told you many times: you want to neutralize the public space, a classic of all authoritative drift. They want to equate the right to express an idea with the non-right to blow up the others. It is not the same to express freely the political opinion that to censor it. You're obvious, huh? They don't like what they see, but what they see won't change it with speeches of por and pulling the extreme right in the name of state nationalism. His electoral battle for the hegemony of the conservative vote in Spain is moving in a dangerous direction, which is not only politically irresponsible, but ethically reprehensible. But the reality is what it is: its call to clean the streets of Catalonia from deep ties and political demonstrations has only returned it the most extreme right, without any civic spontaneity, with characters like Jordi de la Fuente, a militant of extreme right linked to the MSR, and then it is derived in other types of aggression, as suffered by the photojournalist Jordi Borràs on behalf of an agent of the Information Brigade to the Criterion of "Long Live Franco! And after all this they claim that a democratic parliament validates the strategy of the classical tensile strength of the extreme right to strain, retaliate and restrict freedoms? They're talking about the right to work. Do they know what the best way to guarantee the right to work is? The right-of-the-way. That you, young man, want to restrict and coerce. But what did they think? We see that the reality is that 80 percent of Catalan society is against business. Therefore, it is normal that this is expressed in public space, in public and political space. You're being harassed by the deep loops because it bothers you that 80 percent of the Catalan people are against what you defend, which is the ignominy of the political leaders of this country's businesses. We're with Alla's avies, with a calm meatser palplantate in the middle of the street, with the veins of Verges, with Maresme anti-faixists. We've gone out many times because we're a country with memory. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And it won't be the extreme right in the 21st century that shuts us up. And I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.158.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.159.0	... because we are the country of the Rose of Paper, of Estellés, and despite the fact that the assembly handles cremating the rose, despite the fact that they rule houses and do interrogations, as a slogan will continue to circulate, secretly, from hand to hand, throughout the people: a rose of paper, a grove...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.160.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.161.0	...a banner, a general vagueness, a raised puney. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.162.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Xavier García Albiol. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.163.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Make sure that from the People's Party we also support this young man. If I may, I'll tell you, we're experiencing an anomaly. You are very pleased to say that we are in an anomaly, an exceptional democratic situation, but when from here in Parliament there are groups, in this case, or a young person – even though it is not an executive, but a young person – of a parliamentary group that calls for neutrality in public spaces and in our case, that we have already put forward a proposal for a law that goes in the same direction... so, as I say, at the time when motions are to be presented that ask for something so basic, so elementary in a democracy, as is neutrality in public space means that we will have a serious problem. And I think it would be good for all of us to do a responsibility exercise, an exercise to understand that not everyone has to think the same way, the same idea, that we don't all have to agree with the one thought and that one of the virtues of democracy is precisely this: the political plurality and respect of the one who doesn't think like you. And the respect of the one who doesn't think like you goes through, so, because the spaces that are common to all citizens keep this kind of neutrality. As I said, we will support this proposal. It is a young man; a young man is not an executive for the Government, but we do believe that it is a good occasion – and so we have done in the last few hours – to enter the Register of this Parliament with a proposal for law that goes in the same direction and that I think it should serve, precisely, a little to try that this climate of coexistence, that is lost, or at some point there is a certain pressure in some areas of Catalonia, so it is lowered and we can all, from respect and plurality, to express our ideas, as is normal and logical in any civilized country. Therefore, state that we would support this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.164.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return now, to fix its position, of the Republican Parliamentary Group. And you have the word, to do so, Mrs Jenn Díaz. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.165.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. I would also like to keep a record for our dear Carme Forcadell and tell her from here that we find her much and much missing. [[Greetings.]] Well, I'm starting very easy: no space can be neutral. No space can even be neutral, because space, public or not, must be free. You, who speak so much of the real Catalonia, you, as proud as you feel of this society, aspiring, I suppose, to represent it in its conjunction, now it turns out that you want to silence it, that you want to dull it, that you want to nullify it and neutralize it, that you want to ultimately control it. If it's true that the real Catalonia that they talk about at least makes it their public space. Because, when they talk about neutrality, actually – Mrs Sánchez reminded them – what they want to do is to make all the diversity disappear when diversity doesn't give them the reason. This has a name, and the other day the vice president, in the inquiry, reminded them, that it is: "Popular will. Yes, public space cannot be separated with such joy from popular will, because this is the difference between a democratic and modern society and an authoritarian and dictatorial state. In the street, in public space, we must guarantee plurality and not neutrality. No space, I come back, it has to be neutral, because a neutral space is a lifeless space. Neutral spaces, net of all democratic ideology, are spaces of a dominant system. I suppose you're already fine, because they tend to work as a threat. They talk about the exercise of the fundamental rights in Catalonia. All right, let's talk about it; let's talk about freedom of expression. What seems to them that hate crimes protect non-persecuted collectors and that they do a perverted and twisted use of the law? What seems to them that freedom of expression does not include protecting the secret of a book, a ballpoint nose or a plywood? What does it seem to them that, in the freedom of expression, we have Tamara and Adri Carrasco persecuted for terrorism? Oh, no, I'm sorry, they're not terrorists anymore. [[applause]] That now the National Court no longer persecutes them for terrorism and they have lowered the persecution to an ordinary court. Go, I suppose you, that you have appointed the CDRs, that you have appointed Adri and Tamara as terrorists, you will apologize and you will apologize to both of you, that you have made your appointment, I suppose you have... [[Greetings.]] I suppose so, because you are asking in this chamber that we guarantee the exercise of the rights of speech. Well, Adri and Tamara exercised them and charged them with terrorism. We wait for your apology, as well as the veins and veins of Sant Andreu de la Barca we are waiting for Mr Rivera to apologize to the teachers of Palau, too, for having appointed them. Or do they just want to guarantee the rights of those who think like you? It must be that they also want to silence and control the teachers, like the streets, but they won't be able to: they won't pass. At these heights, we already know that you are irresponsible and that your political speech is about people's lives. We continue with political rights: we will talk about commands, which they like very much. Are we talking about Verges' command? What did they tear up flags and paint beaks on the street? I would say that the neutral streets that you claim were not respected, in Verges, but I understand that: if you do not condemn, here, the rise of the extreme right in Parliament, as you must condemn a fexist attack of a command? Or maybe now we don't have to say "Regime Defense Committee"? [[Some applause.]] I don't have to answer that. We're still in charge, and I'd like to ask you a question: when you ask people to take down the police and go through deep loops, what exactly do you promote? And now, as in just a minute, I would like to talk about another fundamental right: right to assembly and demonstration, also the right to political participation and the right to ideological freedom. I will tell you a name and you will already make your own association of ideas: Jordi Cuixart. Jordi Cuixart, president of Ómnium Cultural. Jordi Cuixart, engaged to demand that a peaceful demonstration is dissolved. Jordi Cuixart, engaged in Soto del Real and Lledoners, engaged in the violation of his fundamental rights. Jordi Cuixart, a hard-on man. [[Greetings.]] Well, I want to say that the Catalan civil society, although it does not seem to you, is not abducted, we do not answer to an archetype of voting and that you, who speak so much of the real Catalonia, of those extremes and Andalusians who came, according to you, to raise Catalonia, when you want to speak – I mean, president – of the Spanish-speaking people, of the metropolitans, of this ridiculous thing of Tabarnia, I want to say that I, the Spanish-speaking metropolitan, of the daughter of the extremists and Andalusians, do not feel represented by you, and leave us public space to share it freely, to live with freedom and to triage among all as we want to follow our paths.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.166.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.167.0	Excuse me. I'm very sorry that this bothers you so much. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.168.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Congresswoman Anna Geli.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.169.0	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Councillors, Councillors. We cannot see that we live in a normal situation, there are reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State claims more than two hundred years in prison. That is why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating the fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and freedom of all reprisals, we will not surrender, and today it goes for you, President Forcadell. [[Greetings.]] Before going into detail, a preliminary consideration: are you imagining that today, on the table, instead of talking about deep loops, that you mention in your point one, and that you believe party symbolism, in one of pre-constitutional flags? Do you know what would happen to the Parliament of Catalonia today? So, that this motion for a resolution would not have been raised or raised, as at least by Ciutadans, the proposing group. I seem to notice this because I think it identifies very well where the problem is. The problem is not about the use of public space, the problem is not about protests or work stops, the problem, for you, is the idea of foundations, of which the links, the stops or the sizes of reels symbolize. The problem is that you know as well as we do that there are seven people in prison and exile, you judge for a false cause of little by little, that it is the shame of a Spanish woman unable to show herself to the world as a state of law. That's the problem and not others. [[Greetings.]] Entering into the detail of your young lady, who already tells them that we will not vote in favour, produces a certain stupid paragraph in which you urge the government to guarantee mobility and access to work places in the production centers. And they refer to reel sizes, and even so, indirectly, they refer to certain assignments to the rail network. And I say he's producing stupid so he doesn't say what he's doing for, why, with what do we mean? Do we mean that the government has to ban the actions of the CDRs? Do we mean that the government must use force against its members? Do we mean that? It follows that if they refer to this, the Government will also have to use force against university students, for example, when they cut the Diagonal of Barcelona or the AP-7 to Bellaterra. I also assume that the government will find formulas to deter taxi drivers or workers from any transport company, when they decide to make a standstill claim for any reason. Or doesn't it bother the citizenry with a public transport slot? Is the degree of discomfort that creates the criteria for citizenship to be used to authorize a protest? Certainly, and in relation to the CoR, as Esquerra's companion commented, they are so pleased to criminalize, the memory that the audience has stopped investigating Tamara and Adriana Carrasco, because there is neither terrorism nor anything to assemble. Moreover, the Barcelona Audiència car, referring to '1 October, admits that "they hit the citizens in an apparently purposeless way and put the image of the institutions at risk. You know how you go, right? Thus, violation of the fundamental rights for the abuse of force by the Security Things of the Spanish State in public space. You do not agree, or perhaps you do, that what you have entered the Parliament of Catalonia is a motion for a resolution that affects some of the most important fundamental rights that have been won in forty years, during the last forty years, and, in Europe, since the end of the Second Great War, because under the aixopluc of the word "neutrality" – that the use of it often, certainly – they support the will to extinguish the freedom of expression, the right to assembly, the right to protest and the right to vagueness. What will be the next, close the diary? Why do we make TV3 clear, too? Where is the thin line that separates what it is and what it isn't, or what we can allow public space? We refer to the word'multiple' in front of the word 'neutral', which has more colours. I have had occasion to fill a book of the hand of Madeleine Albright, Secretary of State of the United States, and in the first chapters make a rest of some of the political arguments that are deployed above all Europe, but also to the United States, during the past 20 years. I've had the worrying feeling that, in a way, what we're doing today is coming together. The title of the book many of you will already know, is Feixism, and here lies the concern of my parliamentary group. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.170.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To position himself on the exams, has the parable of the deputy, Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.171.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly. First, his argument did not surprise me the lack of interest respects the motion. I'm sick of seeing you probably wouldn't have your support. But look, tell him that the Great Brother, in Catalonia, is alive, is present, and this one is painting many thousands of Catalans in many places in Catalonia. He's done a series of toilets for the lady, well, they don't have anything to do with the text or the experience of the text. Perhaps you have to see a lot of the new position of your group, following a little Steven Spielberg, at the "Save Mayor Colau." So maybe the theme goes this way. Tell Mrs. Diaz that I suppose, after her intervention, that she will defend the neutrality of the buildings of the Government of the Generality, that she has not made reference but I suppose so. And look, respect the CoR, to make it clear: the CoR has set themselves. They have appointed themselves and there are more than seventy-five criminal divisions referring to one day, instructed by the Squadron Mosses, who are in court, precisely for this check that they have made to the CoR. To Mrs. Geli tell her to talk about lies from her group, when they just made them out of ALDE, precisely for corrupts and liars... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, Mr. Puigdemont did lie to Mr. Junqueras. Appreciate the work done by the Socialists and Units Group to advance. We've reached a series of transactions that I think can enrich the content of this young man. Predictably this young man will be rejected today, but we will continue to fight for the defense of the rights of all the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.172.0	All right. Once the debate is over, let's proceed to the vote on the motion. I understand there is no separate motion for a vote... [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados? What do you got?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.173.0	Yes, points 8, 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-09-1903.174.0	8, 11 and 12, I understand that they can vote together. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So we'll vote on those points, 8, 11 and 12, first, and then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote on points 8, 11 and 12 begins. Points 8, 11 and 12 of this motion are rejected by 38 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. We have voted on the assembly of the young man, there is no more point in the order of the day; therefore, the session rises. Thank you very much.
