ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.1.0	Bon dia deputats, deputades. The session begins. [[Condol demonstration for victims of the attack of 11 September in Strasbourg]] First place... [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, please, let's start the session. In the first place, on my behalf and I am convinced that from the side of the chamber, I express my condolences to the victims of the events that took place yesterday night in Strasbourg and show our full solidarity with the French people. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item on the order of the day of this plenary session. [[Question to the Government about emergency population care (withdrawn)]] [[300-00052/12]] So I'm telling you that the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia has withdrawn the question to the Government about the emergency population's attention to the issue that appeared to be on the agenda. Before starting, also the record that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules, the deputies Raquel Sans and Adriana Delgado, for reasons of motherhood, have delegated their vote to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and that the deputy Monica Sales has delegated its vote, due to severe malaltia, to the deputy Albert Batet, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. I also remember that Members Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva have appointed Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights. For another band, and finally, to welcome... or, in fact, well back... [[Funnel veils]] – exact, now not the vein –, to the deputy Jordi Orobtig, who joins today as the deputy. Welcome, Congressman, very good work; thank you. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, now yes, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.2.0	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.3.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.4.0	In order to request an amendment to the agenda, consisting of a vote on the President's appearance, Mr Torra, to explain to us his statements on the Slovenian track, and also his inaction as president at the head of the Mossos d'Esquadra. I would also ask that, before such a vote is taken, we read out the request made by this group so that the whole House can know, and so do the citizens, what are the reasons why we are asking for such a vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.5.0	Tell me, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.6.0	Yes, in the same vein, President, our subgroup has also requested an appearance of the President of the Generality before this plenary so as to explain and argue the events that occurred during the last week both for what it does to the disauthorization of the Squadre Mossos in various actions as well as for what it does to their statements from Brussels regarding the use of a Belgian way to achieve the independence of Catalonia. We believe that the actuality requires that this request for appearance may be as at the very least substantial, the request, during the day of today, for a question of opportunity at the moment. As far as the Ciutadans is concerned, what we would propose is to add them to one and substantiate them together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.7.0	Mr. Rodriguez, I ask you to specify, also Mr. Carrizosa, exactly by which regular way you request the modification of the order of the day. And, in any case, Mr. Rodriguez, I'm guessing that the request made by Mr. Carrizosa represents a part of the plenary and, therefore, there is legitimacy; it is not his case, and therefore it should be that a part of the Parliament..., in short, you asked that it is compact without two requests for appearance, but they do not correspond to the representation of a part of the Parliament. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos and Carlos Carrizosa Torres are asking to speak.]] Yes, first Mr. Pedret and then Mr. Carrizosa. Yes, Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.8.0	Mr President, as long as two groups had submitted requests for an appearance with a practically identical material object to which our parliamentary group had also requested, I attach myself to the request that it may be substantiated, in accordance with Rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. And I think it was also a good idea, for the material connection, that it is substantial in all folds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.9.0	Say'm, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.10.0	The regulatory framework would be that of Rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure, and for our part we have no problem that they all accumulate and that it is understood that we are, all together, more than one_fifth, although my group alone already has that fifth part.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.11.0	To be precise, they're the two that were admitted to the table yesterday, huh? Mr. Carrizosa? [[Pause.]] All right. So you're gonna have to vote on this change in the order of the day, huh? [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres intervenes without using the microphone.]] Say'm'? Excuse me? Reading of...? [[Pause.]] Ah, the reading of the proposal. All right. So... yes, there are two proposals... Secretary Pérez will read the proposal. Before we do, however, we call for a vote, secretaries. [[Pause. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.12.0	Yes, to explain the sentiment of our vote, given that we didn't expect this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.13.0	I would ask you, in any case, to proceed to the vote, and then, if you want...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.14.0	Okay, but it's also an alteration of the order of the day that we don't expect, that there's no way we can discuss our positions, and we want to make a call that doing things this way isn't right either.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.15.0	That's a political appreciation, and I'm gonna ask him then, if he wants to argue his vote, do it later, huh? But now we're calling for a vote, and then we're just doing the vote. We will take a single vote, because I understand that the two proposals are compact. In such a way that... [[remorse of the voice]] Listen to me, in such a way that we will vote only once the appearance that has been proposed, the appearances that have been proposed, with the benevolence that, of course, is also compact and would make a single appearance in the two areas that have been requested. Therefore, we will vote and it would be a single appearance. We'll go to the vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Sorry, yes, a_second, we'll do the reading. In any case, specify that the vote in favour is in favour of changing the agenda; the vote against is against, rejecting this change in the agenda. And now, Secretary Perez, when you want, I'll read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.16.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. « To the Bureau of Parliament. Carlos Carrizosa Torres, spokesman for the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, in accordance with Rule 172 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, proposes the following appearance at the plenary session of Parliament. Position: President of the Generalitat, Mr Joaquim Torra i Pla. Motivation: in the face of the irresponsible exercise of its functions, encouraging the actions of violent separatist commands, appealing to war conflicts as a way to obtain political objectives, even through the institutional channels of communication of the Generalitat, and trying to subject the Corps de Mossos d'Esquadra to its political orders. Purpose: to submit to due parliamentary control and to the demand for political responsibility for the above-mentioned events. Palace of Parliament, 10 December 2018. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.17.0	All right. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The request for a hearing was rejected by 56 votes to 61, with 7 abstentions. [[Ask the Government about the details at the public university]] [[310-00070/12]] Let's move now to the next point of the order of the day, the first in this case, which are the questions to the government. [[The first question is about the details to the public university, and it is formulated by Mr Lucas Ferro, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão. When you want, Congressman.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.18.0	Thank you, President. Madam Counselor, Catalonia, in another of the podes of shame, invests less in public universities than the thirty-four countries of the OECD, with a cumulative breakdown of more than 18_per_cent. It is the autonomous community where families have to make a greater effort to pay for their education, with an increase of 67,6_per_cent, and the community where public funding per student has been reduced by 34.7_per_cent. Public universities have expelled, from the tax increase decree, more than two thousand university students. And to the increase in taxes and to the details in public universities we have to add the situation of the associate teacher, which has increased by 40_per_cent, that covers structural places docent with wages less than five hundred_euros per month. The Parliament has already approved, for the course 2016-2017, a motion that commits the Government to reduce taxes by 30_per_cent, to address the precariousness of associate and academic researchers, to revert the details to levels of 2011 and to equate, in the Order of Prizes and Scholarships, single-parent families to the families named. The question is simple: will the government complement, for the coming course, for the 2019-2020 course, the commitments made with this Parliament? Or will it continue to make up more or less the policies of retail universities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, Business and Knowledge Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputy, what is a shame was the more than 54,000_million debt that the government inherited that at that time it had to manage this presuppositionary reduction, attached to the deficit also in recaptancy, so, caused by the crisis, and obviously it had to restructure the presupposition. This meant that out of the 922 million euros earmarked for universities in 2010, it went to 760; a reduction, therefore, of 162 million euros. Look, the cost of university degrees in Catalonia is higher, the cost, than the rest of the Spanish State; yes, it is true, not only because we have a much more complex system of research and university infrastructure, but because the quality of life here is also different. At this cost, students pay a 25_per_cent; 75_per_per_cent of the cost of a university degree is paid by the Government of Catalonia. Therefore, it is a much higher investment than it is in other areas of the Spanish State in university education. From this 25_per_cent that students pay, from this 25_per_cent, there is no single price – there is no single price – because we are the only community that combines these prices and taxes with a more equitable social pricing system. In this sense I must say: there are a large number of university students who pay less, a lot, than if they study in the rest of the Spanish State. The priests are more cars, but only to make them higher. Only the family returns of four components above 48,000_euros pay the cent_percent of the price taxes. And that's why this social pricing system was prioritized. What happened this past year? The cost of 1 and 2 trams has been reduced by 30_per_cent. What do we want to do this year? Continue to reduce the cost of the 3, 4, 5, 4, 3, 4, 5, 3, 4, 5, 3, 4, 4, 5, 3, 4, 4, 5, 3, 4, 4, 5, 3, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 5, 3, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, All these issues we are obviously talking to the teaching staff and the Ceucat union.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.22.0	One matisacio, madame consellera: the government's debt increased more with the government than with the previous governments. It also notes the macroeconomic consequences of austerity policies. If wage and student scholarships are sufficient to compensate for the increase in tax abuse, why have two thousand students been expelled from Catalan public universities? I recommend that you listen to university students and that you listen to university professors, that they ask you not to convert the scholarship system into a public benefit system, that you supplement it with the lower taxes and with the fiscal progress that ensures universal access for all students to the public university. I think listening to them is the best favor this government can do during this late heat. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.23.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.24.0	We listen to them, and maybe you also listen to the fact that the linear decrease of a 30_per_cent does not favor – does not favor – students who have lower returns. The social pricing system favours and takes into account income and assets. This is the system that we obviously defend.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00073/12]] The next question is about the situation of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and it is formulated by Mr Carles Castillo, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.26.0	Good morning. Weeks ago, counselor, in another parliamentary question like this, I told him that security in Catalonia was still in a good situation. I was talking about "yet because the socialists think you're carrying this good security by playing politically with the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. Moves and moves that are more than enough, are desperate, already, and that are, with their work and dedication, the ones that have endured so far at this level of security that we enjoy. He also explained the personal and labour abuse, the pressure and even the humiliation and the extreme to which the staff had been subjected with operational decisions to fall exclusively politically. And, hoping for a positive reaction, Mr. Counselor, I was asking you until they kept this situation going. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Counselor, that's right, I was expecting a positive reaction; look if we're naive. Because we want you to be okay, counselor, and we want to help you, because if it's okay with you, it means that the security of all the citizens is fine too. Well, far from achieving the expected and desired reaction, we will find ourselves again with various episodes of clear political use of the Mossos. Because they'll agree with me, like at least, that they're still in the holehole of the hurricane, and the first ones that put them there are yourselves. The Councillor of Culture is busy, a few days or weeks ago, saying publicly that she knows details of a hypothetical ongoing police investigation into herself and her department, because, according to her, the Councillor of the Interior told her. Then, the president, who seems to be returning from the tour of Slovenia especially excited, gives an ultimatum to his own interior advisor because you purge the command structure of the Mossos understand, to see superficially some video images, that there was an attitude "not agree– I quote textually –" with a democratic police. The Interior Advisor, expressly, makes this statement and states that he will take action. The term given by the president to his interior adviser arrives, they say so, and it is absolutely nothing. Aware of the hard mistake made in the same way as Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. And neither does the completion of the internal investigation; so, on the march, one thing and the counter. It is, counselor, the second grog we betray, and not the savior I have apologized for. If I may, you are the Councillor of the Interior, you are not a street activist, you are the Councillor of the Interior of the Government of Catalonia. Do you intend to react now, once and for all, to the very serious situation that the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's has to do with political support and media support? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, has the word Mr. Miquel Buch, Counsellor d'Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.28.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. I'm relieved of this concern you have for squadron movements when you've done nothing for six years because the template has grown. Actually, since the first day I said we had a few moves, huh? In fact, at present we have at least two thousand of the ones we should have, and I for six years have not felt them, to you, defending, neither here, nor outside, nor to Madrid, the increase in staffing that surrounds us. So, for what it's worth right now, I'm saying that the workers are giving more than they can, when you really are responsible for not having the agents around you. You're talking about leaving office, and, above all, messages from Madrid, aren't you? - to stop working. Your party is talking about "stopping jobs. So look, let's not pay us the 800_million euros we need so that the Squadre Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre's Squadre; first. Second, for example, leaving office is not to worry because we have prisoners who have written refusals to the Constitutional Court, which has thirty days to answer, the Constitutional Court, and more than a year to wait. [[Widow's remorse.]] And they are people who have had to go to a place of fame because the Constitutional Court answers them. And you, with the government [[the remorse of the voice persists]] of the Spanish State...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.29.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.30.0	...fandess quits. Let alone, I also explain, is that in Catalonia we have had between three and four thousand truckers pulled all over the country, that we have made efforts to give them food, to look for places and supplies so that they can be there, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of this Spanish State who has done nothing, nor... He should have been pending actions, as they went forward and as they went down, because he was not pending the people who were drawn for our country. That we had to make efforts and call even the government delegation to ask them to make efforts because the truckers weren't in Catalonia. And that yesterday I felt his group manager like he said that France would solve things. So no, France doesn't solve things. Between twenty and thirty people have permanently cut off Jonquera's pace, and between twenty and thirty people have obtained a collapse of trucks in Catalonia that the Government of the Generality, from Civil Protection, from Squadron Mosses and from all the tools we have of Emergencies have been working for these three and four thousand people who have been drawn for the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.32.0	It is soft between "and you more and" word, word, word. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.33.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.34.0	The difference is that I'm telling you and the only one you're doing is talking and talking and talking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.35.0	The next question... [[Ask the Government about the defence of the Parliament of Catalonia and of the Government of the Generality before the intentions of private individuals to assign themselves to the functions and representation]] [[310-00074/12]] ... on the defence of the Parliament of Catalonia and the Government of the Generality before the intentions of private individuals to assign themselves to the functions and representation, the formula Mr Ferran Pedret, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.36.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, what is the nature of your Government's bonds and relations with the name "Council for the Republic"?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.37.0	To answer, has the word Elsa Artadi Consteller, Presidency Consteller.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.38.0	The Council for the Republic is a private, privately funded entity within Belgian law, acting within Brussels' free space, and our relationship, as with many civil society entities in Catalonia, is clear, there is no public finance. And our question is also what is the capture of his political party in defense of autonomy, the sovereignty of Parliament and the Catalan institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.39.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.40.0	Thank you, President. Sir will advise, in principle, this is a debate of control of the government and not of the opposition. Of all the ways, precisely the title of the question we asked him was focused on this. We have one private, you have defined me the nature of our relationship not because you say it's like in many other associations and entities, but I also don't think everyone has the opportunity to present himself publicly to the Sant Jordi Hall of Palau of the Generality of Catalonia. [[applause]] With the deployment of media that was made from the same government. We saw from the accounts of the government's social networks how the act was advertised, with the release of a video that we could only see as an institutional video when we arrived at the end of the video and saw the logotype of the Government of Catalonia, the Secretariat of the Generality, and because it came from an official account of the Government, because, if not, it was impossible to escape that there was nothing to see with an institutional video. Therefore, in addition, you have been at the public presentation, in the Royal Flamenco Theatre, of this one, and have established a series of very close relations with the presence of a good part of the Government in this public presentation, so much so that it was done here in the Palau of the Generality as it was done in Flanders, and with political statements about the import of this one, for example, in the same investiture speech by President Torra. And we are certainly concerned – we are concerned – about how you defend, or if you are willing to do so, the role of Parliament and the same government, and of the same presidency of the Generality before an in which, in the various whites in which it is structured, the representation of the citizenry of Catalonia stands out to the point of seeking to push up and a whole process constitute. That is to say, we have a transsumptive of an executed power and a legislative power operating in full cooperation, in full cognition of the executed Catalan power. And that is certainly a cause of great concern because we think that you should be defending the Catalan institutions, the Parliament, the Government and the Presidency of the Generality from those who intend to replace them, emulate them, simulate them or somehow attribute themselves to them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.42.0	If you follow the government's current account, the account... [[relays]] – I forgive – on all occasions not only when there is a Council for the Republic – that we know that he loves it, because six weeks ago he also carried it in committee –, I would see that we do a lot of acts in the Saló Sant Jordi. I haven't seen him complain, for example, when he talks about the Pere Tarrés Foundation. I guess there's times when it bothers him and there's times when it doesn't. The house of the Palau de la Generalitat is open to many entities and to many acts. The function of the Council for the Republic, among many other things, is to represent the voice of the Catalan society, as do other entities that are civic, apart from the voice of independence in the free space of Europe, which is a place where their party companion, Mr Borrell, cannot act. Mr. Borrell who prevents, for example, or who tries to prevent the work of delegations with their threats, who tries to prevent the presence of Catalan institutions, those that you seem to be very concerned about in international forums, or the very spokesman of his party, the PSOE, who threatens with 155, or his party companion, Mr. Lambán, who talks about other instruments and points to the National Security Act. I don't know if this is the way the PSOE has to defend Catalan institutions. I did ask them to reflect, because if they continue in this way they may end up like the Popular Party in Catalonia. We're lucky that Mr. Borrell can't act on Brussels free space. And so, we're going this way to try to explain to the world because, besides, we know you've gone over. The same institution, the Royal Elcano Institute, which is not precisely suspected of being independentist, explained to us the data on how the perception of the independence movement in Europe is changing, both from how knowledge has changed as well as the perception of the different countries about the actions of the Spanish Government – the actions of the Spanish Government – that you are now captivating, of little dialogue and of authoritarian mass. All these conflicts...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.43.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.44.0	...diplomatics... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President's Counsellor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.45.0	The next question is... [[Ask the Government about public security policy]] [[310-00077/12]] ... on public security policy and the formulation by Mr Xavier García Albiol, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.46.0	Thank you, President. Before moving my question I want to donate or transfer the support of the People's Party of Catalonia to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra for its work and defense, and professionalism. From here, to say that we have been able to observe, Mr. Counsellor, in the last few days as the President of the Generality, Mr. Torra, has dedicated himself to discrediting the professionalism of the Mosso d'Esquadra, especially for which he refers to the actions that lasted for the end to the city of Girona and the city of Terrassa. Yesterday, we also knew that the prosecution is investigating the inaction that resulted from the assault on the tolls and highways of this week's end. Counselor, how do you appreciate the disapproval of the President of the Generality of the professionality of the Squadron Mosses? And what's the value, what's his value about the investigation that seems to have opened the prosecutor's office in relation to the police's inaction this week in terms of highway sizes and assault, the toll raid?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.47.0	To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.48.0	Well, thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman, you will always ask and, therefore, take advantage of the first round to thank and congratulate the Squadron Squad for the macro-operation they did yesterday, for which they are doing today and for all the operations they do every day that they go for the safety of all Catalans and that you do not talk about it. They only talk about it when they're interested, about the Squad moss, and they only ask me when they're interested. In any case, I deny it to the Major: neither the President had a political interference towards the movements this weekend, nor I myself, nor the President gave me any last minute, nor gave me a definite time limit. What I can tell you is the conversation I had with the president and the conversations I had with the president and other things you may know through the media. I can confirm to you that in no case did I have, neither did the Cos de Mossos have any political interference on the part of the president, nor did I have before the body.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.49.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.50.0	Counselor, if the President of the Generality has not given you any instruction or made any kind of interference has a problem. And it's that there's a double of the President of the Generality running for Catalonia, talking to the media and communicating that they need to be purged at the direction of the Squad Mosos. Because the president came out, publicly, making this kind of explanation. Therefore, I ask for a little bit of rigor, because it seems to me that the approach that we have taken to the end is an approach to my question quite serious. From here there is evidence, Mr. Counselor. Every word of the President of the Generality in relation to the Mosso d'Esquadra is a humiliation to the dignity of the Police of Catalonia. You, as Councillor d'Interior, if you did your job well, you would have to demand Mr. Torra, the President of the Generality, who is dedicated to doing his job without attacking the police, because what Mr. Torra has shown all this time that he has been in front of the Government of Catalonia is that he is not the president of all Catalans, but rather what he represents is a shaker, a revolutionary, a peril, in the end, for the coexistence of Catalans. Stop trying to contaminate the police of Catalonia, stop trying to turn the police of Catalonia into a police police of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.51.0	Congressman, time's up. To answer, the counselor again has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.52.0	Thank you, President. Home, that you tell me when your leader, Mr. Married, is missing only the scarf and the flag said that it applies 155 and that it goes against the institutions of this country, and you now represent that defense an institution, instead of claiming it or calling to the Mr. Married say: "To attack the institutions of this country, please. The truth is, I'm very grateful that you come here to make a face and explain to me what and then what you want is to destroy all the institutions in this country, as you did with 155, okay? [[Greetings.]] They're more concerned about the Squad Mosses, but why are they? To cover up the phenomenon of Commissioner Villarejo and all that they allowed when you were in front of the police? Are they worried about the squad moss or are they worried about the electoral advance Vox makes them? What are they worried about? Because you only care about Catalan institutions when they're interested, because when they want to destroy them. And I demand them: enough to create the fake rape report in this country. That's right. Please, that's enough. Because in the end, all Catalans and all Catalans are harmed. This country is a peaceful country, not a violent one. Therefore, enough to attack this village and enough to attack the Catalan institutions, please. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.53.0	The next question... [[Ask the Government about public service]] [[310-00075/12]] ... it's about public service and the formula, Mrs. Lorena Roldán, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.54.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Puigneró, just one day after the public service strike called for today, you yesterday, in extremis, reached an agreement with the parties concerned. Do they plan to comply with and return the overtime to the officials or are they going to be thrown away again?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.55.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.56.0	Obviously, yes, we will.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.57.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.58.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, you are going to allow me, Mr Puigneró, to quarantine these words, just as officials have certainly done, because you have lost all credibility. You had already committed yourself with the workers to return in 2018 part of those payments that are owed to you, and we are in December and what has happened? Well, you haven't paid for it. Why? Because you have other priorities. And when Mr. Torra goes there to talk to his partner, Mr. Sánchez, because he doesn't ask for funding improvements, no, no, that doesn't matter, because those are minor issues, right, Mr. Torra? He's asking for pardons. And you don't notice coming back here and telling the officials that those payments that were taken from you in 2013 and 2014, that those payments that have already been returned in so many autonomous communities, that those payments that you promised to pay back this year and the following year, because they are going to do so in 2026, in 2026, thirteen years later, Mr Puigneró. It's no wonder they've been called a strike, it's all right! And, Mr Puigneró, if you have temptations to answer me with the already well-argued argument of the Budget Stability Act, then save it, because it is really that no one believes them anymore. A week ago, it was Madrid's fault, but yesterday you were able to sign an agreement without any problem. That you don't see your own incoherence? And it is also that the rest of the autonomous communities are also subject to this Law of budgetary stability, and I insist that in many of them the extra payment has already been returned. Here is a mismanagement of your department and the Government of the Generalitat. And it's not just the pay, it's also the high interinity rate, it's the temporality, it's the precarious conditions with which public officials work, and you, with that panorama, what does it think? Well, propose that national festivals can work on a voluntary basis, huh? , to continue to point out to officials. On whom have you, in Mr. Llach, who said that officials would suffer? That's all right, Mr. Counselor. You are very calm with your anti-democratic abuses and your mismanagement, because Mr Sánchez owes you the seat, but the public servants do not owe your chair to you, so stop pressuring them to signify themselves politically and return what they owe you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.59.0	To answer, the counselor again has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.60.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, it's a little less bad that we reached an agreement yesterday, because I don't know how you would have come today, huh? You're already coming, ready. I feel like we made them axafat the guitar. They've already come prepared and contented because there would be a demonstration outside against the government. So, look, I'm sorry, this government, this government up to the accords, this government, ever since it got out of the way, has come to more than six agreements with the unions, and they're all coming together. [[Congresswoman Lorena Roldán Suárez doesn't have the head.]] The deal you're referring to, pay them... no, that's right, Mr. Roldán. Don't tell lies, because, by the way, I can see that the agreement hasn't even been read. [[Congresswoman Lorena Roldán Suárez raises eight sayings.]] You're talking about 2026. The agreement we reached yesterday with the unions was to return the payments in four years, not eight, as you are here implying. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, please, come a little more prepared to Parliament and read's, please, the chords to what we arrive at. Anyway, look, this government has the will to..., has the will and continues to have the will to worry about the Generality's workers, which is true that for many years they suffered the crisis. That's what we're doing. The chords that we're getting to prove it. The agreement that you made is also, and that we announced last week, also went with the willingness to give response to many workers who want to work on October 12th and December 6th. And, therefore, we worry about all the workers, not just for a few. And we will do that, because on October 12th and December 6th there are a lot of people in this country who have already decided that there is nothing to celebrate, nothing to celebrate and, therefore, we will do everything possible and put all possible mechanisms in place because these workers can also exercise this right during the year you see. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.61.0	The next question... [[Ask the Government about the performance of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00076/12]] ... it is about the performance of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the formula Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.62.0	Mr Buch, after this last weekend and this parliamentary day of control on which you see that all the opposition groups are asking you about the same thing, do you think you are still qualified to be at the head of the Mossos d'Esquadra? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.63.0	To answer the words of the Interior Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.64.0	Thank you. Mr. Carrizosa, learn to add, please, because when you say "all are not all." Anyway, there are three of them, and there are more groups here. And yes, I am able and willing to face the challenge, despite the interference that can provoke you and other parties.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.65.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.66.0	Mr Buch, the concern that you and Mr Torra's Government are generating about the security and freedom of Catalan citizens has no precedent in Catalonia. We have never seen ourselves as helpless and concerned in general by the action of one government at the head of the Mossos d'Esquadra, because we, many of us think that you, with one hand, encourage violence and with the other, stop the Mossos d'Esquadra and manipulate them to do nothing. Because, after the altercations in Girona and Terrassa, you promised purges, you said you wouldn't shake your wrist, and you arrived on Saturday and paralyzed the AP-7 and the Mossos did nothing. Did you order them to do nothing, Mr. Buch? And if you didn't give them the order, did you consent that the Mosses, probably manipulated by your purging threats, would do nothing? Did you not take letters in the matter to a Catalan woman who was stupefying at how a main road was paralyzed and the Mossos did nothing? Look, you, as a political evil, rely on the honorability of the Mossos, hide behind the Mossos, it shows that it is an attack on the honorability of the Mossos, which we all support, with its bad political leadership hiding behind the Mossos. It shows that they are attacks on the Mossos. They're not attacks on the Mossos. They are the attack on politicians who are clearly not doing their job. Look, your government is here to take us to the crisis and the path of the dead in Slovenia. That is why they need to make the Mossos a political police, but the Mossos, Mr Buch, are agents free and committed to the security and freedom of all citizens. On our public television they are already saying, as if it were an induction to public altercations, where, what infrastructures are going to be paralyzed on December 21. [[The orator shows some images in the chamber.]] You should know. The Catalans don't trust you to do anything. Therefore, we ask the Government of Spain to stop Catalonia being a territory where laws are not respected and public order is guaranteed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.67.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.68.0	...and the application of the Constitution... [[The speaker keeps talking without using the microphone. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.69.0	I've got the word again for the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.70.0	Miri, here – I told you – the only maniacs in this country are political prisoners. There's no one else, maniac. You're teaching me pictures. How is it that when there was the concentration of taxis in Barcelona and Madrid you didn't say all the speech you made? When it was Castella and Lleó, when it was Andalusia, or even, fixed yours, huh? , this year's Holy Week– which I assume you must have memorized, this year's Holy Week, because it's not long ago –, when there was 155 here, the Mossos d'Esquadra had the same attitude that they had this week's end, exactly the same. And I didn't see you come in, tell Minister Zoido the same speech you made. So, you guys treat each other one way and you treat each other another. [[Greetings.]] And I, look, yesterday I felt as his oracle Albert Rivera said that ‘this in the countries of Europe does not happen. Truqui 'n l'Albert Rivera, who watches the TV, who reads the one that passes to France. Please tell him, because he's staying very badly, he's staying as an incult. And I take advantage, because now I'm going to make Mrs. Arrimadas a gift, then, when the session is over, and it's a book, a book by Maria Xinxó, which is said I also carry the groceries. It's a hundred people, a hundred Catalans, and Catalans who explain why they're carrying a groceries. I'm telling you all this because you, you, are only going to one side of the city, and as heads of this country's institution, who know at least what else is thinking. Pretty good to give speeches to a few. It's hard to make demagic speeches. Hard to lie. Rather than creating a false rape report in Catalonia. Rather than explaining that the world's only problem is Catalonia. That's right. Why, do you want me to tell you something? , the demagoguery, the populism that you expressed..., it's not all gone. And what they're doing wrong is this people of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] And what they're doing wrong is the institution of the Parliament of Catalonia. And what they're doing wrong is all we've done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.71.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.72.0	...to many years the Catalans and Catalans, demanding civically and peacefully a democratic process. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And you want to carry it with a fake rape report that doesn't exist. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.73.0	The next question is... [[Ask the Government about the development and current situation of the Castor project to stop further judicial decisions]] [[310-00071/12]] ... on the development and the current situation of the Castor project stop the last judicial decisions, formulated for the deputy Teresa Pallarès, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.74.0	Thank you, President. If I may, before asking the business councillor the question, I would like to express my support and solidarity with the companies that are engaged and exiled, as well as show the deepest respect for the decision of the four companies that have been in the family for a long time, in a peaceful protest against the injustice of a state that has no more argument than repressed it. So good the groups of this chamber understand that if one day we could go together against this repression we would do all the citizens of Catalonia a great favor. [[Greetings.]] Councillor Chacón, at the beginning of the legislature, the parliamentary groups Junts for Catalonia, the Group Republicà and Catalonia in Comú We were able to register the Commission of Inquiry into the Castor case. As you know, he started his activity as a gas tank ahead of the costs of Montsia and Baix Maestrat in 2012, and soon after he started a very important register of seismic activity that caused alarm to the area. In October 2013 the activity ceased, at the offices of the Castelló prosecutor's office, and the concessionary company was awarded 1,350_million euros in compensation. The Constitutional Court declared the compensation void. The 26th of November, the syndic of heavy goods, Mr Rafael Ribó, already compared before the committee that, as I said, he created in the Parliament, which investigates the derivatives, and exposed the need to claim that the feelings of the Constitutional and also of the Supreme are effective. Let us remember that the recent Supreme's ruling confirms the retroactive effects of the constitutionally agreed nullity on the payments that have already been completed. The syndic has also focused on the need to return the compensation paid to the company, which was conveyed through unconstitutional norms declared on its day; not to speak of other more technical petitions, such as an audit of the project to search for relations with seismic movements. For all this, Counselor, from the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia we ask: what is the government's understanding of the development and current situation of the Castor project, stop from further judicial decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.75.0	To answer the word, Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, Business and Knowledge Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.76.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. Obviously, talking about the Castor case, about this strategic natural gas deposition, is talking about a set of misproposals. It started with this royal decree of the year 2008; we think that after two years, that the concessionaire company was already holding licenses of investigation, so it knew perfectly the nature of the land..., it said, therefore, this decree of the year 2008, there is a concession for thirty years to the company Escal, participated, as it was said in the communication media, in a 67_per_cent for the company ACS and a 33 per cent for the company CLP. The year 2012 ends the works. As you said, activities, tests, and, with this, seismic movements also begin. July 2014 is the renunciation of this concession, and a royal decree of 2014, of urgent measures of the gas system, therefore, establishes that there must be a compensation of 1,350_million euros from Enagas to Escal. He gave a set of misproposals, why? So, obviously, neither in the forms nor in the background this was a project that you had no sense. What did the Government of Catalonia do in this area? So, already in October 2014, the government approves an agreement that it decides to interpose resources to ensure consumer rights, as well as businesses– remind everyone that 60_percent of gas consumption is for business industrial use. Also on 30 September 2014, the Generalitat filed an unconstitutionality appeal, also the Socialist Group of the Congress of Deputies, and also on February 2015 filed another appeal to the Supreme Court. Therefore, as a result of all this judicial activity, a few minutes after giving the reason, it was recognized so much that the amount to be compensated is cancelled as well as a whole set of amounts that will need to be compensated. So, what's our grip? Of course, to continue defending, in one band, the interests of consumers and businesses so that these costs are not reversed to their discards and to continue legal actions to put into evidence that this..., a combination of disproposals, but with a very concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.77.0	Counselor... thank you. [[Ask the Government about the arbitrariness of the Constitutional Court in the defence of the fundamental rights]] [[310-00072/12]] The next question is about the arbitrariness of the Constitutional Court in the defence of the fundamental rights, and it is formulated by Mrs Gemma Geis, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.78.0	Well, good morning, President. Honourable President, Councillor Artadi, today more than a year ago we have prisoners, prisoners, exiles and exiles, and today, 12 December, we have three legitimate councillors of the Government of Catalonia – Councillor Forn, Councillor Rull, Councillor Turull – and the president of our parliamentary group, Jordi Sánchez, in a place of fame; today is his dotze day. We send them all our esteem and solidarity. The vagaries of fame are the most peaceful and civic action that can last from the prison to denounce the arbitrariness of the Constitutional Court; a constitutional court that leaves in jail the requests of emperors to guarantee the fundamental rights of those people who find the worst of conditions: the lack of freedom; a court that lets pass the time to make a decision that opens the door to the European Court of Justice, the European Court of Human Rights. Where is the urgency left to guarantee the right to a fair trial, the right to defence, the right to a proceeding without undue delay? Is it possible to complete the terms laid down by the same law of the Constitutional Court? We have a constitutional court that incompletes what the Spanish Constitution commands: to be the sole guarantor of the rights of the people. We have seen how the Constitutional Court acts according to the interests of the state. What does it not matter to respect the electoral results of 21 December and to meet a diumenge to dictate precautionary measures to prevent the investiture of President Puigdemont? There is no delay, there is as much speed as possible, there is no complexity of the case, there is interest in the state. Therefore, counsel, let us say to him: a slow justice is not a justice, but a justice without guarantees is not a justice. That is why, Constable Artadi, we want to ask you what is the government's understanding of the arbitrariness of the Constitutional Court, in relation to the defence of the fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.79.0	To answer the word, Ms. Elsa Artadi, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.80.0	Well; many thanks, honourable Member, for allowing'm, on behalf of the Government, therefore, to be able to denounce here, in his parliamentary office, this hard injustice through institutions of the State, and in particular the Constitutional Court. On 4 December, Councillor Rull and Councillor Forn issued a statement saying: "The injustice we suffer, the injury to our rights and the judicial arbitrariness with which we are treated legitimately to make this decision, despite being aware of the impact it can have on our bodies. This was done to add to the wave of fame which, three days earlier, two deputies of this chamber, and therefore companions of all of us, began; a wave of fame which is a legitimate protest, which is the most emblematic of non-violent protests and which, therefore, stands out for all the actions that are fan of independence. Today, twelve days later, the Spanish State has political prisoners, and political prisoners in the middle of fame. And you don't have them in the name of defending independence, you don't have them in the name of defending them from their innocence, but you have them in the name of reporting that they don't have access to justice and to remorse consciences. As you said, the Constitutional Court should be the guarantor of fundamental rights; among these fundamental rights, there is the right to a process without undue delay. And the European Court of Human Rights has previously condemned Spain for failing to act with sufficient diligence. The government, last week, made an institutional declaration of absolute solidarity with political prisoners in the middle of fame. And why do you do that? This is because they don't have a voice, and therefore we have to serve as an altar; they don't have a voice, because it is the voice that the Spanish State has decided to silence, because of its political opinions. What does the Constitutional Court do? So miri, 2017 there was-there were 6,286 resources; in van admit 70. I 2016, 6,685; in van admit 65. In the case of political prisoners and exiles, the cent_per_cent, but not to resolve them, but to keep them in the calaix. The first of all, which is from Jordi Sánchez, our company, company of this chamber and deputy, brings 377 days without resolution. They do not ask them to decide in favour or against, they ask them to resolve, only that the Constitutional Court does not do away with their functions. When the Constitutional has to go quickly – and before you have given examples, and we also have of Blanquerna –, that the Court...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.81.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.82.0	...that the European Parliament... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government on the proposal for a new common agricultural policy]] [[310-00078/12]] The next question is about the proposal for a new common agricultural policy, and it is formulated by Mr Francesc Viaplana, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.83.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor Jordan, the policies of economic, social and social cohesion are down to the proposal of the new European Union funding framework, which will apply from 2021. This increases the money provided for in the common agricultural policy, and we must denounce it, because it is not that there is less money, since the global premise is not that change is the priority, and agriculture is the worst. On the other hand, as set out in the new proposal for regulations, the application of the CAP is proposed by the European Commission on the basis of a single strategic plan for each Member State. It is understood that a single planning for the whole of the State will be detrimental to the simplification and reality of our country. A reduction of funds for agricultural policy and policies of economic, social and territorial cohesion in favour of other programmes means a limitation of support policies for farmers and farmers. In view of the increase in costs to farms resulting from the completion of the European standard market, this reduction may represent a burden on the viability of farms and which the consumer has ceased to have safe and quality food, but also following the continuation of a resilient, sustainable and competitive agricultural sector, which manages the territory and gives territorial and social balance to the country. The Catalan agricultural sector is very diverse and therefore requires careful planning, since it has specific needs. Some conditions are adverse, such as severe droughts or mountain areas, which require coordinated actions to ensure the viability of these farms, which are key elements for our territories. Support for small farms is essential, given their contribution of work places to the rural environment and their contribution to territorial development. A strong primary sector equivalent to sufficient food, quality and safety and, finally, food sovereignty. A dynamic agricultural sector is key to tackling such important challenges as protecting the environment, fighting climate change or driving the circular bioeconomy. What is the value of the Government of Catalonia in relation to the proposal for the new CAP?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.84.0	To answer the words of Mrs Teresa Jordà, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.85.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, honourable Member. Before everything – I have to say, because, if not, say, burst – it is very good that someone in this Parliament is also concerned about the future of the country's pages, pages, branches and branches, or that there is a group that supports the government, huh? But it's nice – it's nice. [[Greetings.]] Why do they look like they're asking questions, huh? , to the control session, diguessim. Before the king, let's also say that I want to put into value an agreement, a valid agreement, an agreement for the sector, which we have just passed with the organizations that are represented in the Agricultural Table – in relation to the Union of Pages, the JARC and the Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives of Catalonia –, coordinated, obviously, with the director of Rural Development of the department and all its teams, and would also want to give them thanks for this effort and, basically, for this joint positioning, this position not only of the department, of the sector, but also this position of government, huh? , of the government of the country. I told you, didn't I? We also do not store or discover anything, but, in any case, I would like to say again here today: the new CAP proposal, therefore, does not please us, does not like us very much, not to mention people. As you also pointed out, with the distribution of the priorities of the new multi-annual funding framework proposed for the European Commission, therefore, we lose funds, we lose funds from the CAP. But we don't just lose funds, but we also lose the ability of the country, of Catalonia, to distribute these funds, to choose how we distribute these funds, say, how we distribute these funds according to the way they are done and the way they are in this country. In this sense, we have already explained, we have said to the ministry, I have said to the Minister of Agriculture, that basically the Government of the Generality is calling for the rationalization of these foundations, and also, I have said, that we are calling for strategic plans to be established at the territorial level, with the objective, basically, of making a more efficient management and, obviously, making a much more effective management of these aids. I would also like to say that on the side of the agricultural organizations, on the side of the sector, we want to take a step further, we want to go further and make a strategic Catalan plan, which we will already advance and explain, not only this, but also the new agricultural policy, in more detail, to the appearance that this very same day I asked, to compare with the House's Committee on Agriculture. And I finish, I end up remembering that we were also going to approve, this past 3rd of December, the actual payment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.86.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.87.0	...of the 95_per_cent of... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] [[Ask the Government about the implementation of the inclusive school decree]] [[310-00079/12]] The next question is about the implementation of the Inclusive School Decree, and the formula Mònica Palacín, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.88.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, I begin my question by expressing a great deal of gratitude to my professional and vocational partners – teachers, educators, educators, teachers – for their work in and out of the classrooms, professionals who educate and prepare our young and young children, as the Education Law marks, far beyond purely academic content. That is why we also celebrate that the department has regained the name of the "Department of Education". Every student, every child, every girl, girl, is different, as is another class group. That is why the educational success of a country must be that which understands the personal success of each student also from respect to difference, from the various abilities and from the adaptation of the individual assimilation of the objectives. Diversity, therefore, is part of the same learning in the classrooms of our schools, and surely the same students would give us all more than a great lesson of respect and tolerance for difference. Diversity is a constituent element of society and therefore of the school, and the school must respond to this reality from an inclusive, non-segregative perspective. Inclusion is the principle to fight against educational segregation and which governs the care of all students and, in particular, of those who may encounter barriers or difficulties associated with their personal, family, social, cultural or gender conditions. Now a year ago the adoption of the inclusive school decree, a very good tool to build a system where all schools can adequately attend to the diversity of the needs of their students and which generates collaboration and commitments between the education administration, educational centres and families. A decree that was given four years for its deployment and that during this first year it was very difficult to implement, especially from the application of 155 and the presuppositional extension. The difficulties are great, but the needs are also great. That's why our question, counselor, is: what is the commitment of the counselor and the government to the inclusive school decree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.89.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Bargalló, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.90.0	Thank you, President. MP, inclusive school is one of the most important challenges we have as a country. It is school segregation, but it is obviously the answer to school segregation, which is fair school and inclusive school. And this is a compromise from this government. It is one of the objectives we have set ourselves from the Department of Education: to promote a truly inclusive education system, able to accommodate the diversity of the educational needs of all our students. And we have to work, therefore, for an inclusive school that can give response to students with specific educational needs; a collection that, at these times, in our system, is about 9,500 pupils; all of them very diverse, with very different specific needs, for their own personality, for their own characteristic properties, for the territory and for their family environment. As you said, just over a year ago, October 2017, the inclusive school decree was approved, which is a decree with a broad consensus in the education world; it is a decree expected, and it is a decree with which the department is absolutely committed to developing it. You also said: "The application of 155 and the presuppositional extension prevented the correct planning of the first year of the deployment. Things have been done, in this first year of deployment, but clearly insufficient, because the extended assumption did not allow otherwise. I can give you copies: it has increased by 41 units of inclusive school support in public centres and 10 in concert; 7 units of integral classrooms of support to public centres and 2 in concerted centres; 68 new units of intensive school support to the public and 24 in concert; 6 new integral classrooms of support; 4 new formatary itineraries... They may seem very important, but they are not; they are clearly insufficient copies. In order to implement the decree, we really need a new premise. We can only do this with a new premise that holds the corresponding figures. I can tell you that the assumption that the department has prepared has the ciphers to begin to deploy, indeed, the decree – to begin to deploy. But to begin to deploy, indeed, the decree we hope to have the premise and be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.91.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the endorsement of the current model of security and public order]] [[317-00040/12]] We will continue now with the questions to the President of the Generality. The first question, on the political and social situation, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.92.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, your government is replicating the public order model that was used by the security units of the State on October 1. Once his Government abides by the legality of the State and does not make any – or a – act of sovereignty, it seems that it wants to demonstrate that it still exercises the power to mitigate the harshness of repression and the overaction of movements; political impotence and repressive pre-potence in public matters. A sad paper. On the other hand, they guarantee the free expression of fascism and attack those who, like Girona and Terrassa, fight it: anti-racist organizations, LGTBI, anti-feixists, who were attacked with a lot of violence on the part of the movements. President, do you endorse this model of security and public order?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.93.0	To answer that, the president has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.94.0	Good morning, Congressman. I'll answer about four points. First, the Mossos is the National Police of Catalonia. Second, we can't fall into the head of provocation, and less into ultrathreat provocations. Third, as Councillor Buch and myself said, any wrong and wrong actions of any move will be studied. And fourth, I'm going to post-prevention measures and the new table that we're going to put on the dial with entities and social movements, together with the Mossos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.95.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.96.0	Thank you. President, we find ourselves in moments of regression of rights and freedoms, in a context of waves and mobilizations for political and social rights and its government must guarantee the right to protest and political dissent. Fighting for our right collections requires a change in the security model, which cannot be the same as the state of the law bite. What we have seen, and have seen all over the country, is an absolutely disproportionate action on the part of Brimo: bangs of fucking waist up, use of smoke guns without respecting the principles of opportunity and proportionality, agents without regular identification, persecution, monitoring and follow-up of social movements, arbitrary identifications based on illegal files. And before that, what is the message you want to send from the government? It is very dangerous, President, that the squadron units in charge of the public order feel that their actions are not subservient to any type of democratic control. Will they continue to soothe and repress those who fight, resist and organize? Will they join the State in suppressing disobedience and mobilization? Can you confirm to us, President, or deny that, for example, on the 21st of December all units of the Mossos have been mobilized? President, what have been the consequences of your initial critical positioning with the charges of Girona and Terrassa and his later meeting with Councillor Buch? Does it ratify the overall positive assessment that the Councillor has made of Brimo's actions and has decided, if not for now, not to make any changes in the commands or in the political line of the Department of Interior?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.97.0	To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.98.0	Yeah. First point: Mossos with the National Police of Catalonia. It seems essential to me that they understand. Security of all, security of all in this country depends on the performance of the Mossos. They..., thanks to the Squad Mosses, we can do our job safely. All the weirdness. So, in his day-to-day... in his day-to-day moss, it's very important that we take that into account. Look, I, out of the storms of August 17th, had the opportunity to visit a few commissariats, the most directly affected. And I was able to thank them not only – not only – their exceptional performance that day, but day by day, which seemed important to me to reschedule; the day by day of the Mosses, which allows us all to work safely and do our work. Therefore, we do not pose the Mossos in the pim-pam-pum of politics, we do not pose them, no one of us. Two: don't fall into provocations. Let's not fall for the ultrathreat provocations. Don't fall for it. You can't attack the police cordons as you attacked them – you can't attack them. You can't launch tanks as you launched them – you can't launch them. Let's reflect all the folds on this point – let's do it – because we play a lot of it – let's play a lot of it. That's intolerable. Any country in the world is intolerable. So, we're doing this thinking. Third, as the same advisor and I have reiterated: any – any – action outside established protocols will be issued and sanctioned; it would only be missing, of course. There were images that I think we all didn't like. So they'll study, they'll analyze, they'll send out, and they'll make the decisions they need to make. Therefore, it is very important that we have this present. But, third, what's wrong with us? Preventive measures, perhaps, mediation measures. So, where we want to put all the emphasis on these own days is strengthening the unity of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.99.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.100.0	...preventive. And we'll create an interlocution table around the media... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.101.0	The next question is also about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether I maintained that the solution for Catalonia is the Slovenian way]] [[317-00041/12]] And the formula Ms.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.102.0	Yes, thank you, President. President, are you still proposing the Slovenian way to Catalonia or correct it? We're asking you to please rectify.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.103.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.104.0	Miri, Congresswoman, good morning. I had the opportunity to make this trip to Slovenia. I think this trip to Slovenia was a trip where for the first time the silence wall is broken over the Catalans. It is the first time that a head of state – a head of state – of a government of the European Union en rep. It is the first time that a Speaker of the Parliament and Mayor of Ljubljana, therefore, as well as the President of Catalonia. I think that this is an important fact and I think that about this fact right after a series of interested speeches have come that have sought to cover the success – the success – of the internationalization of the Catalan case.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.105.0	To ask, again, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.106.0	President, there's no way you can answer one of the questions you ask at the control session, we're used to it. Comparisons are always false, but it's that, besides, in this sense, they don't have trellis. We do not question the success of his visit to Slovenia. What we are saying is that the Slovenian way in no case can be the way to Catalonia. And we're not talking about the dead, or the wounded, or the violence, or the army like that, that's what people said. What we say is that the Slovenian way consisted of a unilateral secession where more than 90 per cent of the Slovenian population was in favour of independence, and it is not the same case that we are living in Catalonia. More than a year ago, the unilateral declaration of independence. Yes, many of you have recognized in public – many of you, in public – that it was a mistake, because it did not count on the necessary social support, because they did not measure the costs well and because there was no international recognition. Therefore, we are not inventing the Slovenian way to Catalonia. You said so and collected a tweet from the Government of the Generality. Therefore, it is not that we want to cover the success of nothing. President, Catalonia is an extraordinarily plural country, where there is a social majority that has complex national feelings and has important links with the rest of the State and can't pull for the right by leaving them and leaving us behind. So look less at Slovenia and look more at Catalonia. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , because maybe if he does, he won't be so surprised by the people's late heat of mobilizations on the streets to demand a dignified life. And I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, there is not enough to say that you are betting by the Scottish way. They are part of the government, and therefore they must also assume responsibilities. So they do the favor of joining our petition and demand the president of the rectification generality. Catalonia is a Mesti country that needs a Catalan own way, based on truth and dialect, that defends self-government and the right to decide; a way where events do not fit and that sets face with strategy and political intelligence before those who want to segregate our self-government and who want to implement a 155. Therefore, we ask him, President, to rectify, and we also ask the Republican Left to remain brave and to have courage. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.107.0	To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.108.0	Yes; making a little more concrete. What was the Slovenian way of life? It consisted of some democratic elections to Parliament, which won a coalition of parties, Demos, by an absolute majority, and it consisted of an election to the presidency, which won President Milan Kučan, who precisely had the occasion to talk to him throughout this trip. And this alliance of legislature and presidential is the one that gives strength to make a self-determination referendum, which is won by a few cheerleaders, and to declare independence. Here ends the Slovenian road – here ends the Slovenian road. It starts another way – it starts another way – but here ends the Slovenian way. Look, I..., I don't know, but maybe we've repeated it a hundred times, but I'll come back there – I'll come back – because it's worth remembering: that the way to Catalonia's freedom is, it's been and will always be civic, peaceful and democratic. [[Greetings.]] Always. Yeah, it's been and will be, always. It is that, among other things, I will tell you that no independent MPs in this room, no one would know how to do it in any other way, no one of us would know how to do it violently. Because we know exactly what repression is, because we've seen it, because our companies are living this repression. Therefore, it is not to worry, we will continue to insist, we will never get out of the path of democracy and justice. We'll never get out of this lane. And what we're asking of you, your group, is to join this lane of democracy and justice, to join this... because it's the only lane. And here we can go together. This is the lane we need. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.109.0	The next question is about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether they feel under conditions of acting as President of the Generalitat respecting the Constitution and the Statute]] [[317-00039/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr. Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.110.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Many honourable President of the Generalitat, in the first place, wanted to tell him that we congratulate and congratulate him as the Government for the agreement reached with the unions for the return of the payments. It was possible to do so and probably the mobilizations are the ones that made it possible. And now I go to the question: very honourable President, do you feel under conditions of exercising your functions as President of the Generality respecting the Constitution and the Statute while not being reformed with the majority and through legally established procedures?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.111.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.112.0	Thank you, Congressman. Thanks also for that mention, it was the work of many of the government's companions. I take this opportunity to congratulate the Digital Policy Advisor, and I also take this opportunity to congratulate the Vice-President. It was a tough deal, it was a deal that came from a historical survey, huh? He knows very well, better you than we do. I therefore thank him very much for his words. I said that the day I presented myself to be endorsed by all of you as President of Catalonia, I am only happy with the Parliament of Catalonia, which is the sovereignty of Catalans. Therefore, I will always remain faithful and strictly faithful to what the Parliament of Catalonia decided.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.113.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.114.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Miri, with your answer you have shown that you can hardly be the president of all Catalans. The legitimacy of the Presidency of the Generality in electoral processes for the Constitution, the Statute and the LOREG, outside of this has not been legitimated. But look, the question also had the feeling of attempting to apply those questions to what has concerned us with their recent actions or statements. A first, you questioned the performance of the Squad Mossos without any evidence and without having claimed first respect for the investigation. You are dedicated to telling the CDR to "squeeze and then send them the Moves, to criticize the moves when they act or ask for the moves that are inhibited. We didn't think it was the way to hold the presidency. We are also alarmed that you have offered us as the way out, as the way out, the Slovenian way. But I'll tell you, I'm willing to accept the explanation I gave to Jessica Albiach before, but ask her for a favor, in the Balkans Catalonia I can't find an example to move forward. [[Greetings.]] Then, President, and in this sense too, for us there will only be a way, which is a Catalan way based on the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact. Dialeg, negotiation and pact Catalonia endins and also dialog, negotiation and pact Catalonia enfora. You have given credibility, institutional comparison to independent entities such as the Council for the Republic and this virtual republic to which they virtually invite us. President, I'll call you back, or you'll know your performance in the current legal framework or you won't be able to count on us for the sake of dialogue, negotiation and pact. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.115.0	To answer, again the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.116.0	Yes, Mr. Iceta, but, look, it turns out that when we hoped that politics would come to Catalonia, it turns out that maybe what sees us is the most police in Catalonia. Because what we just heard from President Sanchez is that he's willing to send more cops to Catalonia. Let's go back to politics. Let's go back to the dialect. What happened to that interest of President Sanchez? How long has it been since President Sanchez spoke on the dial? [[Widow's remorse.]] What has moved, what has President Sanchez moved forward to make this dialog work? We're where we are. We're exactly where we were, Mr. Iceta, when President Sanchez is elected President of the Government with our votes. Because it's clear that it is, because there was an opportunity. Because this country deserves the opportunity to vote for President Sánchez to see if we really were Catalan and Spanish leaders – we were political leaders – and we were able to agree to find a way out of dialogue, a way out of politics that is a political conflict. Because we're talking about this, because it's a political conflict. In Catalonia there is no problem of coexistence, there is a political conflict. There is a problem of democracy and justice. That's the problem in Catalonia. And that's what we need to fight about and we need to be good at because we deserve an opportunity. An opportunity to build an exit in pau – in pau. We must be brave, we must have courage– we must have courage. And now we see and we're alarmed how President Sanchez is taking the very same thesis from the right. It's grabbing the same thesis from the right and so... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.117.0	President, time is running out. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the response to the movements of the Spanish State to create a false report on the violence in Catalonia]] [[317-00043/12]] The next question is about the latest political developments and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.118.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, today we have to ask you about the latest moves the Spanish government is making and the state structures to create a new report of false rape in our home. We know her perfectly well. They changed the care, but the facts and steps that we see are the same things that we've lived before, and that's what we're worried about. I say, of course, for the cards that have been sent to members of the Catalan Government and for the investigation initiated by the Prosecutor's Office against the Mosso d'Esquadra, but also for the whole and the way this morning to Congress. We only understand this movement of the Spanish Government as a cowardly and electoralist movement before the ultra pressure of Vox and Ciutadans, and especially after the results of the elections in Andalusia. If the results didn't go well, it wasn't the Government of the Generalitat, nor the Mossos d'Esquadra, nor the Catalan citizens. He expects more responsibility for a government, for a state than just electionist tactics. Nor did the PP make this gesture of these characteristics when last Holy Week was carved the AP-7, and I remember that Interior was controlled by its esteemed 155. There's enough to criminalize a movement that's democratic and that's peaceful. Mr Sánchez was asked a very clear question: do you want to do politics or do you want only headlines? And we demand that they not come to make a council of ministers in Catalonia unless they have a proposal that goes beyond repression and easy electoralism. If they want us to talk about prisoners and prisoners, about exiles; if they want us to talk about self-determination, we are in a table, we wait for them. If they don't want it, I don't think they'll come as I come to visit our house. A little responsibility, and please. What is obvious is that the Spanish government lacks courage, they see that they are different but they end up doing exactly the same as the Rajoy government already did. The cards of these last days are a flagrant lack of institutional respect. The Spanish government has to rethink what it wants to do: if facing independence and persecution, as Rajoy has already done, or wants to bet on the dialog and look for political proposals. We have patience, but not infinite. And you're going to end up. And, said that, President, what we would like to know is what will be the response of the Catalan Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.119.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.120.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman, for sharing it, thread by thread, everything you have expressed. I can't agree more, with the layout, with the petitions you made to the Spanish government, and with the same surprise and, if you will also allow me – that it's an adjective that we use all the folds, here, perhaps too often – with the same stupefaction of getting some cards that we didn't expect from the way – from the way things are – because it forms part of an invented report. The invented relationship of rebuilding the rapport of rape and miscontrol in Catalonia, huh? , facing a possible application of what follows: a 155 per al Mossos, a 155 more general, etcetera. And that's what we've been through – that's what we've been through. Or it does not remind you all, on the day of the Economic Council, that concentration with the Jordis, calling for orders of pau and democracy and tranquillity and that "you go home, and that afterward, those facts were somehow adjectives as violent and as rebellious. And the Jordi, the Jordi Sànchez and the Jordi Cuixart, take more than a year to prison for that invented report! Home, is it that we go back to falling... do we want to go back to falling in the same? Do we want to create the same senseless and irresponsible relationship again? Therefore, I ask all those who are creating this focus another time to re-create this invented report of a supposed rape in Catalonia..., with the consequences that this came to have for the country! But please, but what irresponsibility! What a grave irresponsibility to rebuild the same report! And, so to build them up, they ask all of them for the maximum responsibility; the maximum responsibility at these times. This is what the Government of Catalonia asks: responsibility to all. We maintain the offer, the offer to meet from government to government; which is what the Government of President Sánchez must do if he goes to Catalonia: meet with the Government of the Generality. And raise the issues that need to be raised: the issue of the right of self-determination, of course it is; the issue of prisoners and exiles, of course it is. That we have prisoners who wear thirteen days in a place of fame. Please! That's what we need to talk about. And I hope Governor Sanchez has rectified. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.121.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the agreement for the return of the extraordinary payments of the public workers]] [[317-00042/12]] ...it's also about the events of political today. And the formula is Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.122.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President Torrent. Honourable President Torra, in the first place, allow'mdonar ple support, like Grupo Parlamentari de Junts per Catalunya, on behalf of all the deputies and deputies, to the people who are in prison, to the people who are in exile, to the political prisoners, to the political exiles, and in a special way to the president of our parliamentary group, to the Councillor Turull, to the Councillor Rull and to the Councillor Forn, who are in a vagrant of fame for twelve days; a vagrant of fame that wants to denounce the interferences of the Constitutional Court, that wants to denounce the lack of justice to the Spanish State with equality, a defense, a vagrant of fame that is for all and for all. So, all the support for our four companies, who are in these moments in the middle of fame. Unprecedented fact of the history of democracy in Catalonia: the vam de fam de prisoner politiques. But, Tanmateix, President, today we must congratulate ourselves on..., also expressing an agreement that there was yesterday between the Government of the Government of Catalonia, between the unions of the Department of Digital Policy and Public Administration, on behalf of the whole Government, with the Workers' Commissions, with UGT, with USOC, to face an agreement to descale a pact; a pact with all public office: that can return the payments. An agreement that is in four years, to return the external payments of the year 2013 and the year 2014, and also return the cent_per_cent of productivity. An agreement which is just, of a legitimate claim by the civil servants, which, as we have seen, also do not exist in other sectors: in the health sector, in the teaching sector. Some legitimate demonstrations and demands of the public workers, in a context of the application of 155, but also of some detail, the result of an under-financing of the Generalitat de Catalunya, of a premeditated narrowing of the Spanish State. It is our understanding that this agreement, this agrarian..., agrarian to all the parts that may have made this agreement possible, agrarian also the effort, during all these years, of all the people of the Public Administration, to maintain, despite these conditions, with their commitment to public service, to serve the Government of the Generality of Catalonia, which also means that of all Catalans and Catalans. And that's the question we want to ask him: the captivating around of this agreement comes out yesterday, which shows that there is a government that rules for all Catalans and Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.123.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.124.0	Thank you, Congressman. And that's it, and it can't be any other way. From the very first moment we said that this government was putting people at the center of its political action. And that's what we've been doing all these months. And, therefore, negotiating with everyone. Trading with the unions. And I have already said this before: my thanks to all who have done so; also to the unions – also to the unions – because they were just and legitimate complaints of the officials of Catalonia. Therefore, a historically acquired theme has been solved. As we were so close to solving, so was the theme of the metre's vague. Speaking – speaking – if you want discreetly, because it's how you get to the agreements. But we got it. And we also closed an agreement that also assumes for the doctors and for the primary care 100_million euros to settle... And, if God wills, this divender, this divender, we will also unravel another theme that carries more than a year in silence, such as that of the Barcelona Fira. Because the fire is a project important to the country – important to the country – and we are interested in solving it. And, listen, there's more data. We're carrying sixty-five months of year-on-year downsizing. Who are we now from the city of Catalonia? We're located at 10.16_per_cent. And what's the situation in Spain? 14 and a half percent, I'm almost four points more than ours. And it's insufficient, we have to work on it. But here we are: sixty-five months followed, continued, by year-on-year reduction of the weather. And how many months are we growing up in this country? So, it's been three quarters, all through the independence process. In this country, its economy grew better than ever during the whole process of independence, and from these twenty consecutive quarters, Catalonia's GDP grew, 14 over 3%, 14 over 3%. This October, how did we lock it? With the creation of enterprises increasing by 10_%; 10_%. Catalonia leads the exports of the State by 25_%, and trade is making the estimates that in October has increased by 5.8_%. Then, with all these figures, and with all this bargaining will, can't we come to the conclusion that the country has a powerful social and economic fabric? Then what's the problem? The problem is political. The problem is freedom. The problem is to vote. The problem is justice. That's the problem with Catalonia. They don't have the economy, they don't have the coexistence, they don't have it in the social indexes. This is where we have the problem. This is where we have the problem. It's a problem of freedom. [[Greetings.]] [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the announcements of mobilizations of the defense committee of the Republic for the 21st of September]] [[317-00038/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.125.0	The later asks the formula Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.126.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Torra, the CoR has announced publicly and repeatedly that on 21 December they are going to organize roadblocks, railway cuts, boycotts to other public transport, toll cuts and assaults on public buildings. How do you feel about these ads, as President of the Generalitat?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.127.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.128.0	We, like the government, always guarantee everyone's safety, always, and always guarantee everyone's freedom of expression and concentration, always.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.129.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.130.0	Is this freedom of concentration? This chaos that your friends want to make of the CDRs, does this protect you in freedom of concentration? Do you not know how to distinguish the right to protest or the right to strike, legally summoned, with this chaos that they want to provoke in Catalonia? Is this all you have to say, you, the one who encourages you to squeeze the CoRs? It seems incredible to me, it seems incredible that the President of the Generalitat is unable to make a public appeal for Catalonia not to become a chaos. It's going to affect thousands of Catalans again. Do you realize what is going to happen on the 21st? The day before, on a Friday, on vacation, thousands of families months waiting to go with their families. The safety of citizens will be endangered. And what you have to say is that you defend it as the right of manifestation. The violent are protected in your words, the violent are encouraged in your words, and you are generating a great deal of concern in Catalans. Mr Torra, today you have reaffirmed yourself on the Slovenian road. And he said the other day: "The Catalans are not afraid and we are willing to do everything for independence by appealing to the way of Slovenia. Do you know who you are causing a lot of fear? Millions of Catalans. You generate them a great deal of fear and concern, announcing purges in the mossos after having faced the violent. You don't rule, you rule. And what do you want to do with Catalonia? A territory without law in the hands of the CoR following the example of the Balkans, of the Balkan War. You protect the violent, you encourage them, you give them cover, even right now, if you have just done so, but you criminalize the Democrats, you question the police. You are the biggest attack on Catalonia's institutions, the presidency of the Generalitat and the Government of Catalonia. You're willing to do anything. But you are a public danger to coexistence and security, and when millions of Catalans are in the hands of a public danger, what the Government of Spain has to do is to protect us before you, because... [[applause]] ... everything that happens, everything that happens in Catalonia, everything that happens in Catalonia is going to be the responsibility of you and the Government of Spain that is leaving us abandoned in their hands.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.131.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] To answer the word again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.132.0	Yes, ma'am. Is that a threat? It's a threat. Are you threatening us? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, you're threatening us? Huh? Because that sounds like a threat, your words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.133.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.134.0	Yeah, sounds like a threat. No, it sounds like a threat. And I would appreciate it, to you, to everyone, to the coalition of Article 155, that I stopped threatening us. No, he let us threaten. [[Widow's remorse.]] He let us threaten. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.135.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.136.0	And I can continue...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.137.0	Go on, President. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.138.0	You let us threaten, why, you know what? That we've lost it. This country's got it. Why did you lose it? He's lost track of everything he's been through these years, because this country's done a lot where it's going to do a lot. It's done well in democracy, it's done well in justice, it's done well in civil and human rights. We're stronger than ever. They understand us more than ever. Read 'the data of the Elcano Institute. Read 'the data of the Elcano Institute. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] This means that Europe, for the first time, European citizenship understands the cause of Catalans as a just cause. That's what's going on. And because this country deserves an opportunity, we always want to build it from the path of democracy and justice, with capitals, democracy and justice, with capitals, which is what is failing it, is what we do not have right now in this country, is what we do not have. And that's why I'm going to Catalonia's Sovereignty, and that's why I'm going to prison, and that's why I'm going to exile, because there's Catalan Sovereignty, there's elected MPs for Catalans, and that's why I'm going there. And more than ever, and more than ever, and more than ever...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.139.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.140.0	...with political prisoners in the name of fame, with their companions, with their companions in the name of fame, who have come to take a place of fame to ask for justice. But what else has to happen? [[Greetings.]] Justice to the Constitutional Court, you who have power, you who have an interrelationship with your Madrid parties, please talk to them, ask them to act, to act, to do something. And acting is 155? [[Widow's remorse. Applauds]] Is acting 155? You'll allow it, you'll allow it. Appeal, appeal to the Socialist Party, appeal to the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.141.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.142.0	Thirteen days in the middle of fame. I don't allow it, I don't allow it... Thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Comparison of the President of the Generality before the Plenary to account for the change in the composition of the Government]] [[350-00003/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.143.0	Finally, the control session, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the appearance of the President of the Generality before the plenary to account for the change in the composition of the Government. In accordance with Rule 172 of the Rules of Procedure, and in so far as the President of the Generality has requested to appear before the plenary to account for the change in the composition of the Government, the President of the Generality, very honourable Mr Joaquim Torra, has the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.144.0	Good morning. Mr President, Mr Vice President, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Deputies, I actually appear to the petition itself, in addition to the Law of the Presidency of the Generalitat 13/2008 of 5 November, which in its article 23.3 says that the President must appear before Parliament in order to account for the structure and composition that the Government adopts to constitute and also for subsequent amendments, and this is the reason for this appearance. When there is a remodeling of the Government, in all governments, whether small or large, it is a requirement for Parliament to be counted as soon as possible, and I, just on the first working day after the seizure of the new Foreign Affairs Councillor, Institutional Relations and Transparency, signed the letter addressed to the President of the Parliament in order to be able to compare before all of you and give the appropriate explanations. It's nothing new, this has already happened in the past. If we go to the most recent, in the last fourteen years, we will see that 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011, 13, 15 and 17, the President of the Generalitat, at that time, asked, for the same reasons that I request today, the appearance before all of you to explain itself. Law 13/2008 empowers the President of the Generality to amend the name, the name and the area of competence of the departments in which the Government is organized. Next, then, I am going to explain all the changes that have occurred these last weeks. As you all know, on November 23 he took possession of the position of Foreign Affairs Advisor, Institutional Relations and Transparency, the Honourable Mr. Alfred Bosch, in place of Mr. Ernest Maragall, who had been designated for his party as a candidate for municipal elections. Therefore, it is necessary to carry Mr. Maragall, to whom I return to take advantage to gratify the work done these months in front of the department. After the application of 155 and the devastation it caused for the external action of the Government, with the closure of the delegations and the intent of the liquidation of the work until then, for example, in the Diplomacy, this was an area that required special attention from the Government, and to which the Councillor Maragall put all the effort. So, now, Councillor Bosch represents the work of Councillor Maragall with a part of the way already used in this necessary task of explaining to the world the interests of Catalans. But also in the field of transparency and participation, areas that may not be very pleasing to our political opponents, as we have been able to prove these last few years, especially that of participation. As I explained on the day of Bosch's takeover, the new advisor is a good connoisseur of Nelson Mandela's figure. In an article five years ago, the counselor spoke of the lesson the South African leader had left behind and said: "He combined the firmness with the two of opportunity and with a willingness to negotiate without renouncing the truth and their convictions. This was a first-class political and moral lesson: to know that you will have to talk and that you will have to hear with your rival, but without giving up what is right and which motivated the struggle of your whole life. It seems to me that it is a magnificent lesson to work on from the new responsibility you have now assigned, counselor, and therefore I wish you all the uncertainties and ask you for the utmost dedication, in the awareness of living a very complicated and exceptional moment of Catalan politics. Your résumé supports you, your two languages, too; and even, if you will, the magnificent books you have written, many of which you have guarded. I also want to highlight that the Decree 1/2018 of Creation, Name and Determination of the Field of Competencies of the Department of Administration of the Generality of Catalonia has been amended. This retrograde modification, among others, the new name of the Department of Education, which is renamed the Department of Education. This name change is consistent with the terminology used in Catalonia's Education Law. In this way, adopting the name of the Department of Education the Government of Catalonia adapts to the most used institutional and academic terminology, since it is the one that refers to a modern conception of educational policies, which go beyond the acquisition of academic knowledge and talk to us about the need to have an integral view of education with the main objective of forming citizens in the free, critical and committed, prepared to face the challenges of a society so changing and complex as that of the 21st century. Also, through the modification of this decree, the Department of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency assumes from now on the competitions in the promotion of the pau, which currently held the Department of Justice. Other modifications that I also want to make. Finally, some small modifications that are terminological adaptations to the skills of some departments. Firstly, the term "mobility" is incorporated into the transport skills of the Department of Territories and Sustainability. Secondly, the term "reinsertion" is changed to "rehabilitation from the competence of prison services, rehabilitation and juvenile justice of the Department of Justice". On the other hand, the term 'decrease in disability' is changed to 'deficiency in skills in the policies of persons with disabilities and dependent on the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families. I take this opportunity to recall that these months are being deepened in the adaptations of departmental structures to the needs of this legislature. One of these changes is the restructuring of the Health Department with the creation of the General Directorate of Health Professionals. This new unit will age for planning, training and professional development, as well as for planning the needs of professionals. The Government has approved a reordering of the organizational structure of the Health Department in order to meet the priority objective of strengthening departmental policies in the area of planning and professional development. From then on, the implementation of these policies becomes concentrated in a specific organizational unit, the new Directorate-General of Health Professionals, and, in this sense, the new direction is shifted to the functions related to the direction of policies in the field of professional order, health training and the maintenance and improvement of professional skills; also the functions of health authority, correspondents to the accreditation and certification of health professionals and of the training activities that these carry out. I'm done. I thank you for your attention and opportunity to explain the changes made recently, according to what you foresee and establish the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government. They are all the changes made with the conviction to continue working to always improve the service to the citizenry and to put people at the center of our political action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.145.0	The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak for a maximum of two minutes per group. The first intervention is, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of the Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.146.0	Good morning; thank you, Mr. President; Mr. Torra... Well, when Mr. Torra comes to the Parliament attril, to the Faristol, it is because he is obliged, that we all know. Today, Mr. Torra was obliged to appear, if not, we would not have that luxury of seeing how you read a writing again. But it also surprised us, because supposedly today, you had to explain the changes in the government, the changes in the government, which is required by law. But he's explained very little to us about the next counselor. I think you've appointed him above, you haven't even told us why he's here, why you think he's the right fit to hold this position, a little bit of... I don't know, presenting his resume, being able to have a debate with himself and with the parliamentary groups, but good. Do you know why it doesn't matter? Because you're here by obligation. We asked you for two more appearances, two appearances to talk to us, at the time of the civil servants' strikes and you refused; you hid, as you usually do. We have asked for another appearance for you to explain here: What is it that Catalonia has to follow the path of the Balkans, the path of Slovenia? But you and your people, who do not have much desire for you to come here to a debate, have again protected you, and you have been told no, that Mr Torra cannot appear. And you also appear to make a change of government, but that does not respond to any management improvement. In other words, the Government of the Generalitat has serious problems on the table, serious mismanagement and mismanagement. We can talk about waiting lists, we can talk about the demands that still exist in the health sector, don't forget about other professional health groups, Mr Torra, who continue with their demands. We have a very serious problem with the barracks, the autonomous community with more barracks; the autonomous community with the worst lists of dependency, we have a serious situation, now that the counselor is not here, but I will also say it, with unaccompanied minors – you know it –; debt management, company flight..., but Mr. Torra wants to make some change in his executive to improve these things? No, no, Why is this new counselor here? – that I welcome you, you know that, with you, on a personal level, I have no problem – because it is a change of chromosomes, within Esquerra. The changes of the Government are not to improve management, they are to internal problems, are they not? , in Esquerra and that change of chromosomes they have to do with the municipal ones. In short, why is Mr Bosch as a new advisor? For an internal problem of Esquerra, I'm not going to get involved there. But the truth is that Mr Bosch fulfils an important requirement to be a member of this government, and that he radically defends independence. The rest doesn't matter, the résumé..., that, to be a member of the government doesn't matter much, it matters its radicality in defending independence, and in that, you have shown it so much. But it's also that it meets another requirement to be a member of this government, because I don't know if you know it, but a fan club is being set up here. A fan club is being set up for a very ugly thing, which was the Balkan War. Because we have already seen that Mr Torra loves the way to Slovenia. In his imaginary republic, in the matrix where Mr. Torra lives, there was no death, in Slovenia; there was no war, there was only one referendum, eh? In that imaginary republic of Mr. Torra, in the schools of that imaginary republic, children are taught that there was no death, because that is what Mr. Torra says. Yes, there were dead, and there was a war, which gave rise, then, to a much worse war scenario. But you're a little nostalgic, maybe, of the Balkan War, aren't you? Because the gentleman who is sitting on his right, nothing more and nothing less than the Vice-President of the Government, is also a fan of the Slovenian track. He has an article, in 2013, talking about « A Slovenian history, as a reference for the case of Catalonia. That is why, as he fulfils that requirement of being a fan of the Balkan War, then Mr Aragonès can be vice president of the government. But Mr. Bosch is in this club? Yes, Mr Bosch, in 2013– it was very early in this regard, we had not even heard of Mr Torra – as he was also calling for the Slovenian road to Catalonia. Because it was a quick, quick way. The dead, the war, that's irrelevant details, but it was fast, wasn't it? It was quick to get independence. As Mr. Colomines said, right? With the dead, we'll do it faster, won't we? Or something like that? That there were fourteen years without entering the European Union, what does it matter? It was a quick way to achieve independence. You're not a government, you're a Balkan War fans' club, that's what you are and that's what Mr. Torra has created to put, no more or less than the future of seven million and a half people, in the hands of a Balkan War fans' club, that's what you are. And, in addition, let's talk briefly, with the time we have left, about the department you're going to take over, because it's an important department, especially for you, because it's the department, I'd say, the most processor of all. You have, let's say, the crown jewel of the process in your hands. Because you don't use it for anything else. You Catalan companies don't care, if you've left here thousands and haven't put on the table a plan to return the companies, even the councilwoman said we weren't going to give them a prize they'd gone to, right? Of course, of course, no; you have to let them stay out, don't you? We need to impoverish Catalonia, which is how we solve the supposed fiscal deficit, impoverishing Catalonia. Well, you're going to use this department, this counseling, for the rest of your life. For what? To be the advice of the process. Besides, you think you had a bad foot, if I may, you started with a bad foot. It's going to give us glorious moments, I and our colleagues believe that you're going to give us glorious moments during your term, but you started a little bad, because of course, you don't think of anything else that in the week that had been called the strikes of officials, doctors and other health professionals – by the way, that there are other health professionals also in the sector – you don't think of anything else but announcing that you're going to open a third batch of embassies across the five continents. Meanwhile, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Aragonès, was telling the officials that: "It is that the extra payments could not be recovered, because Madrid steals from us. You have no other idea than the same week the economic vice president is telling you that you can't return the extra payments, because Madrid won't let us and Madrid steals us, you go out to drum and platter – I guess you'd really like to make some initial announcement of your mandate – to say you're going to open the fifth batch of embassies. Does it not seem to you that it is disrespectful for officials, for public servants who had announced a strike for the same week? While you had to listen to the vice president... – because Mr. Torra, you already know that you don't talk about these things – but the economic vice president, saying that there was no money. You started off with a bad foot, but I expect much worse things. And I'll remind you, also one thing, the department you're going to run is characterized by being the most opaque of the government. And it is a curious thing, because it is supposed that transparency issues should also be their responsibility. You should know what the department is like, that this Bureau of Parliament, headed by whom it is headed, and with the majority that it has, has had to give us protection several times, because its department – your now new department – did not give us information. You are the most procedural, most opaque and most wasteful department for the process. Because you, that of defending the interests of Catalans, nothing. Mr. Torra, I think you've made a brief reference to what it has to do to defend the Catalan cause for the world, right? Catalan cause, what, yours? What is it, that we are not Catalans? His cause, that of Slovenia, that of independence, is his, not ours. [[Greetings.]] Or are we not Catalans? Aren't we Catalans, Mr. Torra? When you say that this batch of embassies will serve to give more international candy, with tremendous successes – you have the level of demand, in this, a little low, eh? 'cause some hits, come on, terrible. When you say it's the Catalan cause, what do you mean? To what do we all share that cause? Have you not learned that we do not share it, a majority do not share the Slovenian way and their desire for independence? Or do you not consider us Catalans? What are we going to pay out of our pocket, our voters have to pay out of our pockets to a whole little boy in the world, to defend a path that only represents you? Is that what you're telling him, without any kind of indifference to Catalans? I believe, sincerely, that you cannot be allowed to waste the money of all Catalans any longer on a thing that you recognize is only for you, which is for the path of independence, for the Slovenian path. And finally, your department, Mr Bosch, is also a very curious thing, because it is the largest agency for the placement of fugitives in this government. All the fugitives from justice, all those who left their comrades here unannounced, almost all of them are finding a wreath in those chiringuitos that you exercise. Well, the external action of a serious government, should defend all Catalans, should serve to attract investments, to help companies to export, to speak well of Catalonia and not give images of what you want to generate, for example, on December 21, which does not help much to the international image of Catalonia. But I have no hope that you will be able to fulfil any of those obligations. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.147.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Mr Miquel Iceta. When you want a congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.148.0	Thank you, Mr President of Parliament; very honourable President. I want to thank her for her appearance, we know she's bound to, but you do and I think a little courtesy is to recognize her. I have to say that I did not expect some of the details that you gave, of changes in the structure and organization chart of the Government, which I valued, and I had prepared a very focused intervention on the change in title of the department, which seems to me to be the fundamental object of our debate today. I would like to take this opportunity to greet the new advisor, Alfred Bosch, and to wish him every opportunity. It is true that a change of title, a debate of these characteristics, does not give much, but we may want to take advantage..., precisely, as it has not come out before – among other things for the forbearance of the commons in the debate on the Slovenian way – so, some comment I will do with respect. Because it is true that we maintain some important difference in the focus of the work of the Department of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency. We, I must say, have this discrepancy, but we express it from a certain legitimacy, that we have actively participated in the approval of the Law of External Action. And therefore, it is not possible to say that we do not want the Generalitat to carry out an external action, if not, we have not voted this law. But it does us the effect that like the Law of Foreign Action, which provides powerful instruments to the Generality to defend the interests of Catalonia to the European Union and the world, for which it is not empowered to use these instruments against the Spanish State and the same Government of Spain. And here's where there's a big difference. Before the opposition leader said to him: "Do not confound a political cause, which is legitimate, with the interest of the country's conjunction. We believe that in this you are right, we believe that we would get out more from a perspective of more cooperation than from a perspective of confrontation. You yourself today expressed – and we fully understand this – your satisfaction for having been rejected, even though it may not be official, but well known and public, for the Government of Slovenia. But precisely this also fills in the difficulties which, at least since 2014, have had the success of Catalonia's governments to have a relationship, to say the least, normalized with European governments and institutions. And you can tell me, or you can tell me – and quite rightly – that the action of the Government of Spain has effectively posed many obstacles to this normalized presence. But we would have to say that, logically, the Government of Spain, to which it realized that the action of the Government of the Generality to the foreigner did not only have as its object the defence of legitimate interests of Catalonia, but also the promotion of a political project, which is that of independence, which wants to break the territorial integrity of Spain, effectively did not dedicate themselves to putting red captives to the representatives of the Generality. Miri, I don't remember from when, but you sure have more in the memo, how long has it been since the representative of the Government of Catalonia met with a member of the European Commission? Probably, I don't think I'm wrong, since 2014 this isn't producing. Certainly, the reason must be that many countries of the European Union, independently of what they might think, do not want to enmity with the Spanish Government, which is a full member of the Union. So, it's pretty normal. But this gives us, from our point of view, an additional argument to the idea that, through cooperation, we can better defend our interests, even though it meant oblivion of defending a cause that is not that of the majority of Catalans. But this department has another function that we want to emphasize, tea by vocation and also, finally, by distributing tasks that you have done in the Government, which is the function of stimulating institutional and bilateral relations with the Government of Spain, which have a multiplicity of mechanisms but which you find, with the bilateral commission establishing the State, its element, we would say, more central, more visible. Miri, president, you, if I don't remember it badly, and I seem to remember it well, on October 10th he said: " Pedro Sánchez has finished his credit. Today, in change, he asks for a government meeting to government. I have not had his experience as president, but a certain political experience. I think that from where we came and until we had to arrive in the best of cases, that it is to a full normalization, the path will be long, complex, it will not be free of difficulties, and, if I allow it – and I say it with affection, and I think it will admit it – even with some stretcher, band and band, it is the same! and, therefore, we need to prepare ourselves to work in a way that sometimes requires much more discretion than creuament of statements. But I have to say it. You say, "No, it's that the Sánchez government does the same as the PP government. As the debate at the Congress took place simultaneously with ours, we could not follow it, no one, fully, but I received some messages from me. Listen to me, if you feel or listen to the statement or the initial intervention made by President Sánchez; but, above all, the intervention made by other groups, I think that the contrast of approximations... for example, I could have listened to Mr Rivera tell the President of the Government: "Get away from Iceta, who is taking you astray. Therefore, I should have seen how there are very different visions in the set of Spanish political forces, about how the Catalan process should be conducted. You, for example, posed a question to the air, and said: "When did you talk about the dial, Pedro Sánchez? I'll tell you what, today. Certainly, he's talking about a dialect within the law. It's that you're right, from our point of view: if there's no respect for the law and the institutions, the possibility of dialing is spoiled. And, therefore, we should be able to establish in which way we take advantage of a layout in the dialog, which is probably not from the coincidence, from the most absolute discrepancy, to advance the agenda a little. And you say, "Why do they send us cards? Miri, President, I have to say, and you are right and the Councillor of the Interior has also said this: from the heights of the road, there have been many, many places, and not all cause, we would say, this concern. Why, in this case, is there this concern? And I say it with all due respect to what I know. It's the way you asked the CoR to press, and it's the CoRs that to press, there can be a legitimate concern from the Government of Spain, to say: "Home, if they've encouraged them to do it, it's normal that after that they don't take them off. And fifteen hours on a highway is an element of concern. I will say to him: there is a right, which is that of mobility, that we have all Catalans, but also Spaniards and Europeans when it comes to a road that forms part of the trans-European communications network. Therefore, it is normal for the Government of Spain to have said: "Listen to me, we have not seen this clearly. If the Government of Catalonia, his answer, which will surely arrive, explains to him: « Listen'm, it is that the professional appreciation of the Mossos at that time indicated or recommended... Listen, nothing to say, because there is a confidence with the professionalism of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. What there is is a concern, I must say it with all sincerity, with its government. And that's what has to go away, because sometimes..., and maybe you can say, "Home, maybe it's a harm. Maybe you're right. We've got to get out of here. But as we wipe out these harms or "fouls," perhaps some of them avoidable? Just talking. So, man, I think we need to take things as they are. The Government of Spain says to him: "Listen, I have not seen this clearly. And it reminds him of one thing that is obvious: if, for reasons such as the Government of Catalonia, it was not able to guarantee the right to mobility, the Government of Spain, among other things, for its constitutional responsibility and for its responsibility to other countries of the European Union, it should do so. Or with the media close to or using the generality's. Is this the best mechanism? No, no, We want to and feel protected by the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad The right to the mobility of Catalans protects it better than anyone else's cosos de mossos d'Esquadra. In this case, it didn't happen. We see why and pass the page. He was telling her again the theme of the good relationship. You wrote him a letter to the President of the Government on September 26, and sent him a copy of it to a good glue of world leaders. I take advantage of the intervention to ask if any of them have given any answer that I deserve, we would say, some comment or that the chamber was aware of. I'm done. Meeting of the Government on the 21st, of the Council of Ministers. Look, I think that would be a good thing, that I suggest... you're president of the Generality, you're president of all Catalans. It has been known that this meeting is being held. If I were in your place, and I say it with modesty and respect, I would say: "Listen, I have known you are meeting in Barcelona, I will be happy to welcome you to our country, to the Palau of the Generality. I think that's the answer, if we want to normalize a situation at least. If you understand that you have to do it in any other way or that you do not have to do it, it is on your right. Now, remember: for you it is the ordinary representative of the State in Catalonia. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I already know that he may sometimes be made even more responsible than the President of the General. But, believe me, when a man accepts responsibilities he accepts sencers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.149.0	You're running out of time, Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.150.0	...for the good and for the bad. I ended up, President, with a few words of good wishes for the new Councillor, and among all of us, we can answer that call you made to others. It will allow me, Mr President: do it yourself, too, so that you can contribute to pulling forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.151.0	Time's up, Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.152.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.153.0	Next, it is the time of the deputy Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.154.0	Thank you, President. President, today we are presented with the remodeling of the Government for the departure mainly of Mr Ernest Maragall and the arrival of Mr Alfred Bosch as Foreign Councillor. We welcome Mr. Bosch. Yes, we expect the government to have the height of sight and the capacity of understanding that it did not have when it was with the director of the Barcelona City Council, where it often, not to say always, exercised a role of blocking and taping for social and progressive policies. We had to say it. Let's hope this isn't the same thing. But if we are honest, President, you should confess that the government's remodeling is absolutely indifferent to you. You have no intention or interest in governing. He hasn't done it so far, and we're pretty sure they're starting to do it from now on. Catalonia is in the midst of a severe crisis torn by inequality after years of a decade of austerity, of the details that have affected the lives of working people. And, you, what are they doing? Are they presenting social and expansional assumptions? So, for now, no. Are they redistributing the rich proposing a tax reform because the 2_per_cent more you, the rich, pay more? He's about to see it, but he doesn't seem to. Do they approve of the general assumptions of the State, which are the most left-handed, the most progressive and the most social of democracy? So now neither. On the contrary, what you say is that waiting lists are dependent, lack of teaching and denunciations are secondary questions. And they claim it despite being the streets full of people, of mobilized people who defend a dignified life, who claim to shield the public basic services. Just as simple as that. They begin to assemble Mr. Valls, the candidate of Ciutadans, who when they ask him how much a meter ticket or how much a bar says that these are not important issues. And to the social fracture of inequality in Catalonia is added disorientation and frustration, because he doesn't know where his government is going. President, Catalans and Catalans don't know what the government strategy is, if any. That should be made clear to us. I don't need to go over all the contradictory statements and events that you said in the past months and weeks. I'll only be with these days, because they're especially hard. The first – we have already commented on the control session – is yours on the Slovenian road. We've already talked about it. I know there were more than 90 per cent there, practically 95 per cent of the people who were in favor of independence, not like here. One year they recognized that the unilateral declaration of independence was a mistake, that it did not count on the support of social majorities, that it was a way to pressure the Government of the State to dialogue, that it failed, and now you come back and recover it with the worst of possible comparisons. We have told them before: we question the unilateral path, not the pacifism of the independence movement, that we are convinced that, in general, despite certain exceptions, that there can always be, in general, a peaceful movement. But there is no social support for the unilateral way; we will not tire of repeating it. And the second is the words of Mr. Toni Comín, the former Health Advisor, who says that the tram that remains until independence will be dramatic and that the time has come to pay a high price. President, what are you talking about? We need clarification. What are they talking about? Please be clear, because we don't know if they're ramps, if they're happening, that we haven't seen a few that don't end up in the end, or if they're serious this time. Because they never know when they're crawling or when they really were. So, we're clear on where we're going. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, we've told them before: I'm asking for a rectification. It is inconsistent to speak of vast majority if the government speaks of a unilateral way, which is the Slovenian way. They must decide between the Slovenian way of a government that is drifting or the construction of a new progressive majority. You are part of the government and therefore also have responsibility for this issue. Before such thick words, they cannot continue to pose us with profile. Leave the electoral band calculator and start making decisions. Be clear, too. The situation of democratic exceptionality that Catalonia sees is very difficult. The consequences of the judicialization of politics are dramatic. But precisely, for these reasons, precisely because of the difficult situation we are in, Catalonia needs now more than ever a government that does politics, that follows clear and that leads. And we see that the Torra-Aragonese government doesn't do one of the three things: it doesn't rule, it doesn't lead and it doesn't feel clear. Nor do I solve the social fracture caused by inequality and detail, nor do I work to build the country's great alliances and consensus in favor of the right to decide. And I'll add one more aspect: you're not aware of the peril you're going through the extreme right. And I'm not talking about the extreme right of Spain anymore. I'm talking about the extreme Catalan right, which we also have. If they think they can keep it on the sidelines, they're wrong. What is needed is to build a social bloc, broad and progressive, and to show that there is no better antidote against the extreme right – there is no better antidote – than social policies. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, they are not only wrong against the broad consensus that exists in Catalan society. Even at the most recent time of 155 a year ago, you, despite winning some elections, were not able to lead anything or form a government. So I stop insisting on 155, because the only one they do is an irresponsible strategy and feed the extreme right of Vox. So they do the favor. And I also say to Mr.Iceta and to Catalan socialism: before the exceptional situation we live in, they make Pedro Sánchez understand that, if he does not listen to Catalonia, he will have the same purpose as Susana Díaz, and that the application of 155 would be a new historical error that would close the window of opportunity of the dialog; a window that each time became more entangled between threats and events, but which is still not closed. Therefore, do not wander any further and do not apply 155, despite the pressures of Aznar's trident. It cannot be that the Council of Ministers comes names on the 21st to walk to Barcelona. What is needed is a political proposal that sets the table and revives the majority of the motion of censure. They'll always find us here. And I'm done. It is not said that this government is squandering the majority of October 1 and 3 with certain events. Each time we have more present than we are before a crisis of government, that we are before a government that is in chronic crisis, that is acute, that is in decomposition and that there is no remei, either, for the internal barricades that they have within the two independent parties. We're not in front of a government that's lost its course, it's that it's never found it. And I'm starting to think we have a government that doesn't want to rule or approve of assumptions. You're asking for a presuppositional extension and you have no intention of managing. We are at a time when we are asking the government that governments will end up turning into something revolutionary, but we will insist. Catalonia deserves a government that is up high, that governments for all the people and not just for one part, and that puts people in the center. They must assume that the change to Catalonia is going to put an end to the spread of rights and freedoms to Spain, and that we will not advance here without recovering the majority of the motion of censure. If the Catalan, Republican and Progressive majority does not walk together in Catalonia and is not aware that we need allies to the rest of the State, we will continue in a blockade of frustration and inequality. In this historical cruelty, we want to be sure that this change can occur in addition, despite the differences in favour of social justice and democracy. And now it is only necessary that those forces that are said to be left behind and progressives remain courageous, have courage, also tend to participate in this new majority of progress and make a decision, because we cannot continue to waste time. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.155.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. Next is the return of Deputy Carles Riera, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.156.0	Thank you, President. Well, President Torra, in the first place, we want to welcome the new advisor and wish him luck and uncertainty in his pocket. We will have a chance to talk about it at other times here in the chamber, but we want to say in advance that we want a task that we would like to focus on the international defence of our right to self-determination; on the denunciation of the democratic regression of the Spanish State and its violation of civil and political rights; on the construction of global alliances and on the international incidence in the denunciation of fascism, and on the defence of democratic rights and the collective rights of peoples. But, also, President Torra, we think that today you have lost an opportunity to make and present a deeper, necessary and urgent remodeling of your government. I'll explain. Starting to tell him, President, that we give him the commendation for his position after the difficult events repressed in Girona and Terrassa. We congratulate him on his testimony participating in the wave of solidarity with political prisoners and denouncing the violation of fundamental rights in relation to the proper courts. We also appreciate positively his speech defending unilateral democratic solutions to the political conflict with the Spanish State, at the expense of the State's incomparability to make a proposal on self-determination, giving the obvious weakness of the way of the dialogue with the Spanish State, which today, in the mouth of Pedro Sánchez, has made it more obvious than ever that his attachment to the principles of the 78th rule. Certainly, a rule, ladies and gentlemen, which was imposed with police, military and fascist violence, with more than five hundred deaths and without repairing the violence and deaths caused by the previous franchise. Also, finally, president, we want to give him the tribute for his refusal to collaborate in the celebration of the Council of Ministers on the 21st in Barcelona. At the same time, President, as I said, his Government continues to be blocked in autonomy, continuing to call for an impossible negotiation with the State, without any act of sovereignty; it remains without giving satisfactory answers to the legitimate social demands that are mobilized to our country demanding rights and justice, such as in the field of teaching, salvation, childhood or housing. His government, president, applying the same, exactly the same model of security and public order of the State of the law bites, perseveres in the repression of the independence movement, of the social protests, of the anti-feixist mobilizations, and, in change, continues to protect the Faixists in their public manifestations, with an Interior Councillor who has failed to make their demands, which we know, and has hastened to positively appreciate the activities of Brimo to Girona and Terrassa, without making changes in his department and without being ceased. And, President, in order to replace us before, we certainly don't have to fall into the traps of the far-right fascism or the cognition of the state's keyloggers and some political parties in the action of the far-right. And precisely not in this provocation is that the Squadron Mosses, instead of protecting the legitimate rights of these extreme right-wing parties, do what you do is protect and legitimize and release freedom of expression and manifestation to those who fight and fight against fascism. This is not in provocation, that you do not legitimize fascism and, in change, you do give freedom of expression to anti-fessists. President, you have hard problems at home, from our point of view, in your government and in the parties that support you, with families and currents that have even disauthorized you in the last few hours. And in the next few days, weeks and months the people of our country will demand justice and effective self-determination and will organize and mobilize to acquit them, if it comes past the institutions, self-determination with or without the institutions. And today the institutions, anchored in immobilism and claudication before the State, are not at the height of the historical moment. President, you are making profound changes in your Government, starting with the Council of the Interior; you are tying up with your most conservative and reactionary socio-political and socioeconomic backgrounds; you are putting the institutions, and especially the Government, at the height of circumstances and serving the struggle for justice and effective and real self-determination. It is urgent, and a large part of the country is run out of patience and is set aside for social and political rights, including the right to self-determination, a right that we never – never – admit is linked to violence, because self-determination is freedom and rights for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.157.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. Next is the return of deputy Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.158.0	Thank you very much, President. Your last decisions and trips in external action, Mr.Totra, allow me to recall a phrase that I moved you a couple of months ago, and that is that on the floor of your immorality there is always one more basement. He said it after his arenga, which ended with an attempted assault on Parliament. How it hurts to be right sometimes! It seemed impossible that you could fall lower, but you did, and you did not need too much time, claiming the Slovenian way, that is, war; a short war, but war in the end, with dozens of dead and hundreds of wounded. We've come this far, Mr. Torra. I want to announce to him, calmly but firmly, that when we return to the Moncloa leading the Spanish centerright, which will be very soon, because it will be very soon, we will dismiss him. And it's not a threat, it's a finding and it's an announcement of what's going to happen, a description of reality. We are going to remove him because the Catalans do not want wars, neither Slovenia nor Vietnam; we are going to remove him because it is a perfectly democratic, legal and legitimate instrument to protect democracy, as was done with his predecessor. And I am fully aware that in the reply you will become outraged, shake the extremities saying that it is only due to the Parliament of Catalonia. No, that's not true. It is very important to know what one is from what one believes to be. You are not the plenipotentiary leader of Catalonia who can afford to threaten your population with wars; you are the most responsible for the General Administration of the State; you are due to the law and the Constitution, and, if not, democracy can and must protect you from people who threaten your population, as Alfonso Guerra pointed out yesterday, with whom I fully agree in his statement. He pointed out a moment ago that the Catalans do not want wars, neither to Slovene nor to Vietnamese; that is why we are going to dismiss him. And you know what's most curious? That no one is going to shed a single tear for his dismissal. Its members of Esquerra Republicana, in private, will breathe relieved; half of Junts per Catalunya, probably also, and more, if possible, the vast majority of Catalans and the rest of Spanish, because they will know that we do not allow a war to begin, because Catalonia is not Slovenia, Catalonia is Spain. Thank you very much. [[Some applause. Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.159.0	I would like to remind myself – and if I do not ask the servants of the chamber to act – that the public has the duty to behave properly when it follows parliamentary sessions. Thank you. There's the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.160.0	Thank you, President. They'll allow me to dedicate my minutes to talking about the change of government, and not about other things. So, I'm starting – and I couldn't do it any other way – thanking Ernest Maragall's pocket to the head of the council at the length of this year, the work done to recover a department that is not only useful, but that is necessary, that it is essential and that everyone knows that it suffered more than anything else probably with 155. A department that by more than Spanish nationalism decides to always put it in its sights, looks and will look at the world, and works and will work every day to have the best of relations with the rest of the countries. A department that is the absolute priority of this government. Therefore, to thank Ernest for the work done and to ask him that the vision that he has shown at the length of his life also has it in time to face the new projects that are now being carried out. Thank you very much, Ernest. That said, I do want to make four tired to defend that we have the best possible counselor, and I understand that Mrs. Arrimadas is not interested in getting her résumé and, therefore, you go directly to other subjects; the résumé, therefore, I will defend him. This is a surgical change in a government that must lead us to continue working with the greatest of ambitions and in the clearest way for Catalans living abroad, for those who may need more than our borders, and to demonstrate once more that we can govern and that we can do well. That's what the president asked, that's what the Republican Left asked of Alfred Bosch, and we're sure he will, because he has the ability, because he has the experience and the training to do it, Mrs. Arrimadas. I'll give you some examples. Alfred speaks Catalan, castle, English, French, Portuguese, German and Italian. He has been a professor at universities and study centers in Catalonia, but also from the world: Pompey Fabra, Autonomous, Rovira and Virgils, Cidob, University of Chicago, London, Ibadan, Nigeria, South Africa, Washington... And he also presided over the Centre for African Studies from 91 to 99, because it was linked to international congresses and events, such as the Euro-EU Conference, against Mediterranean cities, the World Congress of Metropolis, Rio de Janeiro's bid for the 2004 Olympic Games... Because, as you all know, he was also involved in the organization of the Barcelona Olympic Games 92 and because, in the last few days, the Barcelona Metropolitan Area occupied the international and cooperation area, because of his experience in Spanish politics, which they all know, and with the diplomatic relations he had from there. In summary, he has all the skills, a long experience; he knows international relations. But above all, because you also know how important they are, at a time like this, these international relations, we believe and are sure that you will be worthy of the hero of the council that stands in Maragall's March Raül Romeva, worthy of the hero of the work done by Maragall, and because you will continue to work tirelessly to improve the lives of the citizens of Catalonia. Regarding the change in the department, saying that for us, too, it is important – and the president quoted it – to apply to the Department of Action for the whole part of the promotion of the pau, they understand that this promotion of the pau is not only circumscribed in the Catalan sphere, but also in the international sphere, and we always want to have an active role as agents of the pau rau of the world. With regard to the change of name of the councillor responsible for the country's educational policy, remind them only that it has had various names at the length of the history, that during the Republic they deigned as a councillor for Public Education, that after many stages, therefore, it was called a councillor for Education, in a short one it was said as a councillor for Education. According to the DIEC, the teaching is the action of teaching, the action, the art of teaching, and this definition gives all the protagonists to the teachers, when the object and subject of educational policy must really be the students, who have recognized for national, state and international legislation the right to education. And I read – we did it before yesterday – Article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which says: "Everyone has a right to education. Or the very law of Catalonia's education, which must be of reference to us, where the term "teaching clearly does not fit in, since in the prolegation it establishes that education is the door to personal realization and to the progress of the collection, is the lever that makes it possible to overcome the personal, social, economic and cultural conditions at the origin, is the key to opportunities to overcome inequalities and to discover and take advantage of all the talents of society. The logic, therefore, leads us to understand that this department of Catalonia is said from the "Departement d'Educação" and that it bears a name that you actually give back to the main function that you have commissioned, and hence the proposal of the current Department of Education to recover the name of the Department of Education. We are absolutely convinced that in this case the name tells us a lot of things, and therefore this change was also important for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.161.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it's the turn, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Mr. Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.162.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Many honorable President Torra, members of the Government, illustrious deputies, today is the 12th, the 12 gods and titans of the Olimp, the 12 knights of the Round Table, the 12 jobs of Hercules [[remorse of the voice]] But today, I do not intend to talk about myths or symbols, unfortunately. Today, the memory he makes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.163.0	Quiet... quiet, and please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.164.0	Today, the memory that makes twelve days, twelve, that Catalonia, that Europe has three deputies of this chamber and Councilor Forn in place of fame. It's a shame that the State has brought us here. We have exiles and 9 political prisoners, 4 of whom have decided to make a name for themselves. Why do they do that? To become heroes or national myths? No, no way. We don't want heroes, we want free men. They're in the middle of a job so they can look for justice. His cause is for all political prisoners, for all. They have a vague reputation for denouncing the attitude of the Constitutional Court, the attitude of Spanish justice, arbitrary, capricious and, therefore, unjust; it is an attitude of dignity and denunciation. They have a vague reputation for remorseing consciences and denouncing the abandonment of the functions of the Constitutional Court. Let go, yes, let go of the rule of law. Doesn't it look like there's enough? The State does not have enough to put them in prison without guarantees; a preventive prison that is not preventive, because, quite simply, it is in prison. The state of 155 isn't enough, they don't have enough, they don't have enough, they don't have enough to have charged the separation of powers? Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Counsellor Forn, we are firmly committed to this just cause, which is the cause of Catalonia. Today President Torra explains a change in the execution and various changes in the structure of Government. For the change to the Foreign Office, please note the importance for Catalonia of external action and projection. On the outside– on the outside– we come– on the outside, we come. In fact, we were already there when, by the way, the Sea Llotja was yours of the sea console, when we had maritime commercial sovereignty, Catalan maritime sovereignty, Catalan maritime law, later converted into international law, when, by the way, there was no Constitution, which we said to each other. But I'd say the outside is the world, it's the engine of our economy. We need the outside, as often explains passionately to me for her work, the business advisor, the Chacón advisor. The world is our home and in the world we move well, looking for markets, bringing value, projecting talent and explaining to the world that Catalonia is a country of opportunity, a country that can be strategic for the growth of entrepreneurs with a global vocation. But the outside is also – also is – this free space where we have to carry the cause of Catalonia. Counsellor Bosch, congratulated on the nomination and much luck. And I always remember, the exterior is the resonance box, which some will change, of the freedom and democracy criteria that we make from Catalonia for all the citizens of the Spanish State. Because, no one is fooled, Spain will not live in democracy if Catalonia has not seen in democracy. And, President Torra, you have all the support for Junts for Catalonia in the changes that you explained to Parliament today, all the support. But basically, he has Junts' full support for Catalonia in his government action. The country sees, whether it wants as if it is not, a situation of extreme exceptionality and they don't want to see it. If this Parliament cannot recover normality, it is because the State is not willing to respect the mandate of the polls of 21st December 2017. That's not normal. And let me also talk about your government. You and your counselors are getting into a kind of pencar, a type of work. You don't stop. Your government rules and rules well. Governor Torra, the government of Vice President Aragonès, the government of Constellera Artadi governs well. But you are working hard that, until now, the government of Catalonia today had had to assume with urgency, the extreme difficulty and hardship that you have experienced in living them. The Government of Catalonia has to face the ever-increasing problem of infra-financing, which makes it impossible to get to all sides. You must, of course, teach, sanitize, innovate, page and camp, all the productive sectors, you must do the work of government and the fan; but, in the band, you must lead the defense of the country's institutions, the defense of the political rights of Catalonia and the intangible that it supposes to live in democracy and in a dignified and free society. This is the hard work the government has to do. Freedom and democracy are known when they leave, when they go, but they don't know when they come back. For this reason, defending democracy is a job, it is a central task. Upon the arrival of his government, he rose to 155, but it was up to you to re-establish an institutional and administrative machinery, strategically asleep for the state, immobilized for the state and, moreover, to be the government of the day-to-day. You govern the country, which is never easy, as it always happens and everything else; but it is also the government that is facing the strongest repression wave we have suffered since 1975. And now they're threatening us again. Now they're sending cards threatening us. And today, the president of the Spanish Government, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, has made... – Mr. Iceta, to me I have been explained another film, I have listened to another film – today Mr. Sánchez has made Philip VI, the black night of October 3, 2017, but at the Congress. Mr. Sanchez, not like that. The dialog is everything, less frivolity as today has spoken of Catalonia. I would, in fact, like to think that it is an evil, that does not pass nor will pass, but Spain seems determined, seems coughing, seems obstinate to treat the country of Pau Casals, which is this, with the tools of seduction and dialog close to the Cid Campeador. We're a pau movement. They're peaceful. Our culture is, Mrs. Arrimadas, our culture is pau and urns. Our culture and movement are peaceful, and those who have fed and decorated and put medals on the meat shop of October 1 are you, and you want to deny it. [[Greetings.]] So you see for where– so you see for where–, we're right. The State didn't expect and didn't expect us to be right, as we've always done, as we always do peacefully and civically. But now they're threatening us again with more... no more politics, more cops and a new 155 shadow. The PSOE offers... – now they will be puzzled – the PSOE offers Catalonia the same proposal for a dialogue that would be offered to us by the lords of Vox: the police. So, before this irresponsibility, let us ask all the Members of Parliament of Catalonia to defend their ideas, which are willing to diverge, to discuss, to reason, to speak and to live, knowing that, in democracy, sometimes it is won and sometimes it is lost. That is why we ask all the Members of this Parliament who are standing on the coast of Catalonia, who forget about acronyms, electoral strategies, personal ambitions and serve their constituents, defending the work of this Parliament, and who are standing up to the repression and threat of a new 155. I think like I do, but I think, I think democraticly. Please don't flirt with repression – don't flirt with repression. The Spanish State can't be a repression junkie. That is why, Mr. Arrimadas, that is why, Mr. Fernández, that is why we say no to 155. [[The watch shows the camera a full number 155 and still follows the strip.]] For this reason, let us say no to 155, a weapon of repression that we do not want. [[Widow's remorse. A few members of the City Parliamentary Group also show a few fulls and tear them apart.]] And I finish, very quickly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.165.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.166.0	Sir..., Mr. Torra, a popular finger to finish, in case Mr. Sanchez is ever found. Explain to him that "more flies are hunted with a tip of honey, sweet and llaminera, than with a can of vinegar, beeper for taste and sour apple. In case I haven't explained myself: with repression, mala baba, mala cares and enough syrup, the Spanish State will never convince Catalonia. They'll never convince us. Thank you, President; thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. One time the groups intervened, it is the return, if so desired, of the answer of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.168.0	Yeah. Good morning, again. Very briefly, because I would like to respond, in concrete terms, to the people who focused on what was the object of this point, which was the structure and composition of the government. I think that, for those comments that make reference to this point, I do have the duty, therefore, to answer out of respect, also, at last, to the institution. Mrs. Arrimadas, you have put in question, it seemed to me, the curriculum of Counsellor Bosch. I think it's been well explained, by the Lord Sabria. And I, a council – a council –: buy'salgun of the books of Mr Bosch. It's worth it, you'll also better understand the history of Catalonia. There's the cycle about 1714. We learned a lot about the history of the country, reading Alfred Bosch's books. But its international endorsement is, I think, unquestionable, huh? , the domain of languages, the prestige and the domain on African themes, the step for universities has become pale. I seem to be a suitable candidate and I am extremely pleased to count him as one more of the members of the government. You have the tendency, always, to diminish..., all the Catalan institutions and always speak of "xiringuitos and this terminology. For us, the delegations and the people working at the delegations deserve great respect, and for us they are Catalan institutions to which they owe great respect. Do you know what it cost to close the eleven delegations, by order of 155? So three more times than the office of a delegation is worth for a whole year. Do you know that, with the cost of the '1 October' provision, of the 87_millions of the cost of the 'piolins sent to us, do you know how many delegations they could open, to Catalonia? Probably two-hundred nine delegations. For each euro that the Government of the Generality is spent on external services, the State will become 200. The Government of the Generality spent only 4_millions on its foreign delegations; 800_millions – the ones we know – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Spain, dedicated to diplomatic action, which has a minister dedicated exclusively to fighting independence. By the way, they're not ambassadors, they're government delegations that serve citizens, businesses and the Catalan community abroad, huh? And it will also allow us, among its terminology, to use it, so we are not talking about the Balkan fan club, please, eh? Absolutely. We're from the club of fans of pau, democracy and justice, huh? [[Greetings.]] And, given what has been seen here, between you and Mr. Fernández, it seems to me that there is a 155-year-old fan club. To Mr. Iceta, thank you, too, to welcome Mr. Bosch. I think that we will put all our responsibility in these delegations, that they are delegations to the service of all Catalans, together with the Offices of Action, that it is another powerful instrument that the Generality has to the service of Catalan companies and to the service of achieving new investments in the country, and that we recently celebrated its thirty years of existence and that I think it is one of the great uncertainties of the Government. They preserve, huh? , the Offices of Action, as we should have preserved the Catalan delegations, which perform the same function as serving the Catalan citizenry and representation. And, for the rest, thanks to the company that supports the government, from the two parties, for the clarifications you have also made about the government delegations. I can add little to your parliament, ordinary people, because it wasn't about that, let's just say. To friend Carles Riera, thank you for the positive words and for the criticisms. And to Mr. Alejandro Fernández, you will allow me not to say anything to him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.169.0	Thank you, President. It is now, again, the return of parliamentary groups, for a maximum of five minutes. In the first place, has the word Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.170.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Torra, who must doubt much about Mr Bosch's résumé, because in his presentation of the change of government he has not explained it. You must try to hide it. He had to go out with a fellow Republican Left, didn't he? The normal thing is that you would have explained your résumé. But what else does it give you from the resume of your counselors and counselors? Yes, I believe that none of these ladies and gentlemen have been chosen by you, to begin with – none, none. None of these ladies and gentlemen of the Government, of the Councillors and Councillors, have been chosen by you. And, besides, if their resume doesn't matter. If you want is the minimum of radicality – radicality – to defend independence. Which is the Slovenian way, isn't it, Mr Bosch? That's super fast, huh? , the fast track, no problem, just dead, but that's a small detail, because then you have a seat in the Government of the Generalitat. That you consider those who have come from other autonomous communities to be linguistic colonizers? Yes, Counselor, you have your chair here in the government. That Mr Pere Aragonès was campaigning with 'Spain steals from us, a few years ago, you were a little bit more..., younger were we all? But you, in the government. Because, in addition, you were appealing to the Slovenian road, you have your place here. It's a collection of radicalities for independence. That you have the opportunity today, Mr Torra, to appeal to the CoRs not to make Catalonia a chaos on 21 December, and you, far from telling them not to do so, have told them that their actions are protected by the right of concentration in Catalonia. I have told you about the roadblocks, the cuts in public services, the threats of assault on this Parliament, which are making in a public way, which even TV3 is reporting on, the cuts in the main channels of mobilization and communication in Catalonia. What do you say? They are protected by the right of concentration. That is what Mr Torra had to say today in the face of a very concrete and very direct question: 'What do you think of the threats of violent acts by the CoRs? And you have protected them. And you have been more insistent today on questioning the work of the Mossos if there has been any mistake than in telling the CoRs that they do not commit violent acts. We've seen you, all of Catalonia, saying they're tightening up, the CDRs. Today you had a very good, historic, unique opportunity to tell the CoRs to stop violence, to stop threatening the Catalan institutions by assaulting Parliament, to stop cutting roads on a very important day for thousands of families. You have not agreed today on the Catalans, because you are obsessed with the process. In fact, the book recommendations you make, from 1714. Get out of there, Mr. Torra, you're obsessed, it's monothematic. We ask you about the officials and you go out with the prisoners. Do you not realize that at the head of the Generalitat there has to be someone with a slightly broader view of the Government and Catalonia? You have again insisted here, again, that the embassies are to make known the Catalan way and Catalan aspirations. That Catalonia is all of us, Mr. Torra. That you cannot allocate a euro of public money to represent your ideology abroad, because it only represents less than half of Catalans. You don't just want to give voice to half Catalonia, not even half Catalonia. It's just that you don't know that there's more than half of Catalonia. Mr Pujol has just made an intervention reiterating Catalonia's aspirations. That we are not Catalans, Mr Pujol? When you talk about Catalonia's aspirations, who do you mean? Only your part of Catalonia, isn't it? Or don't you even see us? It is that you have it so internalized that we say it again and again, and Mr Pujol comes out again to say that the Catalan way, that the aspirations of Catalonia, that the image of Catalonia on the outside..., that you represent only 47_per_cent of Catalans, point and ball – 47. [[Greetings.]] It's a lot – it's a lot – but they're not all Catalonia. You're not Catalonia. Catalonia is all of us. And you can't... you can, you can, use public money to give the image that Catalonia is just you. Because the people who are going to stay without being able to catch an AVE, or an airplane, or go to another country on vacation after months saving, are also Catalans. And maybe they don't agree with the violent actions of the CDRs. We're just asking them – I know it's easy, huh? – stop talking about Catalonia as if there were only you in Catalonia, because Catalonia is all of us. And on 21 December everything that happens is going to be his responsibility, but also of the Government of Spain, which remains watching while there are millions of Catalans in the hands of these gentlemen. And lastly, and the last idea I have repeated to you many times: do not confuse Catalonia with you. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] and don't confuse Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.171.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.172.0	...with Mr. Sanchez. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.173.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units for Progress, of Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.174.0	Thank you very much, President. President, very briefly: don't confuse Spain with Mr. Rivera, with Mr. Married and with the lords of Vox. Actually, Spain is very plural and Catalonia is very plural, and I hope that you have a view more thin than that of some of its companies that do not see a difference between PSOE and Vox. I'll tell you: between the PSOE and the PP and Citizens there is even more difference than there is between Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana, that is to say, there is a lot of space. Secondly, you made a logic, I want to share, with the work that Action does. And it's worth it, because the people who feel like we're seeing that it's not all a pity or a confrontation, but that there are elements that unite us and do things better. Third thing I wanted to do, I'll just do the title: a certain praise of moderation. I believe that politics seems to reward only the most extreme attitudes, the expressions, we would say, more percussion or more shocking, even the most hurtful. I really declare myself useless in this battle, at this contest I do not present myself. And I'll say it too: it's true that sometimes it's time to turn off fires, but the best thing is not to turn them on. And I think it would be good for the Government of Catalonia to send messages for moderation, for understanding the existence of different political positions, of interested contrasts, which are there. But also the need to find paths to reconcile them, to negotiate them, to give in. And I think this is always important, but maybe it will be more and more symbolically in view of this 21st and the celebration of this Council of Ministers. I believe that at these heights of life people know that the Government of Catalonia has a radically different political position from that of the Government of Spain. Well, everybody knows less about the married and rivera lords, who don't know either. But, in general, people know there's a difference. What happens is that I think that a lot of people also appreciate that, seeing the differences, the dialog is not impossible. And I think that in politics... life, too, but in politics especially, forms have value and it goes without saying that the institutional dialogue is not lost. Surely you would want to have more content, more forcefully, even if you had raised the possibility of this joint meeting of the two governments. But there is a saying in the castle, which I say in the castle, because I don't know the equivalent in català: "Whoever wants the most, wants the least. And, therefore, if it can't be all that a flight, I think it would be very good message, Catalonia endins and Catalonia enfora..., this institutional visit, this formal, official repudiation, on the part of the President of the Generality to a government of Spain that is meeting in Catalonia, after many years that had not produced a meeting of these characteristics. I believe, moreover, that among the advisers and advisers who are talking to the ministers in Madrid there are fears that they are on the march, some very green, but others, in change, more mature. Why not take advantage of it and give it a boost? From our point of view, ending the year with a situation of confrontation or that could have staged a total and absolute lack of dialog would be very negative for both sides. I think that as we have yet a ple and, therefore, we can express desires for the new year. But a desire for political stability, dialogue, collaboration with results and tangible gains is a desire that we can share a lot. Some don't, some don't want this dialog to be a gift, some just talk about the rift, the confrontation and the division, but I think that still, and fortunately, we are more, in Catalonia and in the conjunct of Spain, those who would like to see forward positions and elements of finding. You're doing everything you can. We, as he has called us directly and also some of the other spokespersons who have spoken, will do our job. What they don't expect is for us to defend their positions. We'll defend our own. But from respect and with the will to always find paths to the dialog, the negotiation and the pact. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.175.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.176.0	Yes, thank you, President. President, we did talk about the repositioning and the remodeling of the government, which is what we did to question, because the experience told us so, not Mr Bosch's résumé, but his ability to understand and his height of vision. Because he has shown us at the Barcelona Assembly, whenever he has been able to block the social and progressive policies that are working for the benefit of Barcelona's citizens. So, we did talk about the remodeling of the government. And, President, I insist: I believe that you are the same as the government's remodeling, because you are not here to rule, at least you are not doing so. They haven't done it so far, and we're pretty sure they're doing it from now on. Because we have a government that doesn't lead, that doesn't rule, and that's not clear. A government that is formed for Republican Left and for Junts for Catalonia. And the guilt that he doesn't rule, doesn't lead and doesn't make it clear that it's not just him, it's not just Junts for Catalonia, but that Republican Left should also be made to 'homirare. President, you do not understand that with what you are dealing with, with the situation in Catalonia, with the lack of social assumptions that are necessary, with the lists of expectations that we have now in health and dependence, with the highest university taxes in the State, with a Generality that does not put a euro at the moment, in the schools of Bressol..., you have not felt that you have here a minute or unlimited time to be able to talk about everything that is going on and that you just come out and say that you want to talk about the remodeling of the government. Because what's going on in Catalonia is hard. There is not only a social fracture due to inequality, but there is also a disorientation and frustration because they are not giving a way to the national conflict that we are patenting. And instead of you posing a solution, not looking at Slovenia, not looking at Scotland, looking at Catalonia and proposing a particular Catalan way, what they are doing is happening and happening more. We have a government that is divided, that has no direction, that some bet by the unilateral way, that the others seem to be not, but that do not just clarify it. Therefore, we need certain things and we need to be rehabilitated. We tell them, they tell them on the street and the unions tell them. Catalonia needs to be stabilized in order to be able to pull forward, to overcome the detail, to overcome austerity, to reduce the fracture that we have that we always insist on, not because of the national conflict, but because of inequality and social conflict. And you don't have the skills to present social and expansional assumptions either. We haven't been reunited yet, and we don't have a new date. We have asked you before: correct the Slovenian way and do not avenge me with the fact that independence is peaceful, which we know, we have said. We have not questioned the Slovenian way to continue violently; we have questioned the Slovenian way because it is the unilateral way, and they are very different situations. More than 90_per_cent with an undeniable result in a reference that was made there, and it is not the same situation as in Catalonia. Therefore, we ask him: do not let us back, because we would not only be disconnecting from the State, but we would be disconnecting from the Catalonia medium that also exists. And finally, do the same call I made before: the progressive, republican and Catalan forces are facing 155, do it with political strategy and do it with intelligence, without occurrences, please. To the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, I insist, on the 21st, the Council of Ministers cannot only come to Barcelona for a walk. It's very good, by decree, of the minimum wage to nine hundred euros, it's essential and you know that we've been there to defend it. We wanted a thousand euros, in the end they'll be nine hundred; he got where he got it. But they can not only come to Catalonia to approve, by decree, the rise of the minimum wage, they must come with a political proposal that will help us to unravel the situation that we have, because it is also difficult. Because we do not subject the social question to the national question or the national question to the social question. And to the Republican Left: courage and courage; if not, we will not get out of this. Leave the election calculator and think about the country. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.177.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP-Crida Constituent, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.178.0	Thank you, President. From the point of view, President Torra, as we have said, and now we want to subtrace him, it is urgent that you prepare your government to give response to social struggles for justice and equality that will grow in our country in the proper months. It is urgent, it is an emergence that you prepare your government for unilaterality, the only way today possible and realistic to create the objective conditions that allow us to exercise the democratic right to self-determination based on the response of the Spanish State, which is only repressive. And today, president, we don't see them – we don't see them – preparing for these changes, we don't see them preparing to face these challenges, and it's urgent, it's an emergency that they do, that they prepare their government to respond to the national and social democratic challenges and objectives that our country requires you to face and face as well. And one last question, President: please don't cooperate in the criminalization of social movements and the movement that fights against fascism and for self-determination, the movement that fights for civil and political rights. Don't collaborate with the crime discourse. This speech only helps the strategy of violence and repression of the State; they do not fall into this parany. And finally, if you, President, want to get out of loneliness – if you want to get out of the political loneliness that some people attribute to you – the way is clear: put your government at the expense of social movements that fight for self-determination and justice in our country. We can't speculate with who the final solution is; we will find it in the fight: it will be the popular struggle, the democratic struggle of the people for self-determination and justice, which will lead us to the final solution, to the solution to self-determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.179.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.180.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, it's the second time, Mr. Torra, who decides not to answer me. I appreciate it. As I told you on one occasion, you sure have great virtues, but it is clear that God did not call you on the path of parliamentarianism, and shows it in every session. In any case, he has not made any personal reference to me, but he has made it to the so-called – in which he includes my party – « club of 155. And he said one thing that surprised me enough: he said that we came to destroy Catalan institutions because we don't like them. Look, I'm going to explain one thing to you: I've twice been mayor of my city, Tarragona, one in collaboration with the former Convergence i Unió and another with the Socialist Party, because indeed, Mr.Iceta: you agree when there are two parties willing to negotiate, yours is a little naïve, but let me tell you that. Well, in those twelve years of my life, the City Council of Tarragona is a Catalan institution. With my successes, my mistakes, I dedicated the best of myself to serving a Catalan institution, with very relevant support from thousands and thousands of Tarraconians. Then I was part of the Government of the Diputación de Tarragona, another Catalan institution. I was entrusted with the tasks, the presidency of the Autonomous Agency of the Information Society, which aimed, among other things, to implement information and communication technologies in small municipalities that did not have that possibility. With my successes and my mistakes, I dedicated the best of myself to a Catalan institution. I have among my colleagues the former mayor of Badalona, who was mayor for four years and received massive support for his re-election. Why? Because he gave the best of himself to Badalona City Council, which is another Catalan institution. There are only four of us, right now, here, but I must tell you that you should live seven lives to contribute what we have done to the Catalan institutions that ensure we want to denigrate – seven lives. [[Some applause.]] And, look, let me tell you that it is you who denigrates them, because you are the one who threatens and throws herrings that end in attempts to assault this institution, which is Catalan. You're the one talking about Slovenian roads, which, by the way, ended up with tanks surrounding an institution that would have to be, in theory, according to your vision, this one. So don't tell us we hate Catalan institutions. We come here to defend them and to protect them and to give the best of ourselves. And sometimes—sometimes—intervention to bring democracy back is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.181.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Deputy Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.182.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Arrimadas, who doesn't care about Alfred Bosch's résumé, is yours and not Mr. Torra. And, in fact, I've been hoping to make it read, but I won't because it's too long and I don't have much time. With respect to 155 and the numbering of the follies, I'd tell him to apply his words, wouldn't I? In this country there is an 80_percent of the people who are against 155, Mrs. Arrimadas; therefore, I do not speak on behalf of all Catalans, or say that I speak on behalf of all Spaniards. In any case, it's a little bit clearer: less to give us lessons and more to apply the story. Mr. Iceta, they talk a lot about dialogue, and I think it's a good thing we all do. Today in Congress – and it's true that we haven't been able to follow it all with the intensity we want – makes us feel that we've lost a new opportunity. We want to talk about what concerns the Catalans, we want to look for a political way out of this situation, we want to talk about prisoners, talk about the state of repression, talk about right to self-determination... It's not worth making excuses for feelings that respect some kind of reel that are different for you from last Holy Week, when it applied to 155, but that in reality they are exactly the same. They always have an excuse not to carry out this dialog, and so what we ask is that I stop giving in to the pressure of Ciutadan and the People's Party, that they are brave, that the obvious truth, this dialog table, that I stop telling you in the Parliament of Catalonia, but that after that it is not effective in the relationship with the State. We're already opening the dialog table, and we're doing what you wanted to do. Be brave and, as you said, defending what you seem to be, but we're still brave and we're talking in this table, we're talking about everything. So, let's move from desire to reality, and in that you have, if not much, I would say that almost all responsibility at this hour, because our disposition has always followed. Respect to the commons, only a small acclamation to the lady Albiach. I make him a list of things that have been agreed to at the meeting: we voted for the investiture – it's not bad –, the PEUAT, the subway and... the assumptions. [[Rialles.]] I'm pointing. As far as lives are concerned, ours is a... you wanted to talk about lives and I think ours is a proper way, and therefore I will not adjective it so as not to contribute to more polemics. It is a way that works to make progress with a large majority of people – and it seems to me that we agree on this – but now it will never give up the peaceful and democratic way that always speaks of pau, that speaks of urns, but that with these premises it does not give up any way to achieve it. And neither did we give up – nor did we give up – that you are accompanying us, this way, and that is why it will be brave, brave that at other times – that at other recent times – we have found them lacking. And today, and finally, that we are counting on the plethora of a change of composition of the Government, only to make clear another time that no letter, that no threat, that no 155 will stop us, that we will never give up governing ourselves, that we will not give up self-determination, that we will not tire of ourselves, that we will not fail and that we will not stop until we achieve democratic and peaceful independence of this country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.183.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr. Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.184.0	Mr. President, President Torra. Quality the category. This is a government, for which I want to listen, with impeccable curricula that could do a great job in the country but that has two problems: infra-financing and that has to manage a huge situation of repression. [[Widow's remorse.]] So, lower the tension, apostine not to continue the path of repression on this path and see how this government will be able to devote exclusively to the day-to-day governance of the country. Madame Arrimadas, I do see it – I do see it –. I assure you, I see her. The one that happens, that sometimes I see you and I see the grays, but this is another question. I say this because we have spoken – we have spoken –, Mrs. Arrimadas... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I say today we spoke some thirty times between Councilman Buch...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.185.0	Do not intervene while another Member is speaking, please, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.186.0	Mrs. Rimadas... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Rimadas. I told him yesterday that sometimes his speech is absolutely a banner of repression, and that the great guarantors of repression were the gray ones. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm strictly making historiography of this country. So much good there was no grey and so much good there was no October 1st police. That said, today we have said about thirty, thirty-five, forty times, between President Torra, Councilor Buch, we have spoken – and I myself – that we are a peaceful movement. [[the remorse of the voice persists]] That we're civics, that our culture is cock. And you see you didn't listen to him. I repeat them again: civics, culture of pau and democracy. And I'll still say more: this is a gout – a gout – that some can see half the empty. These days, too, is the image of the most powerful non-violent denunciation culture that there can be in democracy, which is making a wave of fame. We've got, we've got, we've got, we've [[some applause]] These gentlemen who sit next to you... Congressman Sánchez, president of our parliamentary group, Councillors Rull and Turull will be here safe and making a big deal of their shame. Yeah, yeah, it's a fam spot. A very powerful symbolic action that denounces an attitude of justice that does not want to be just and that closes access to European justice. That said, Mrs. Albiach, we appreciate your extended hand, or this offer to work together in the strategy to stop, to stop, to plant in front of 155. We're so good at getting all folded up, because 155 is a weapon that hurts all Catalans, thinking as they think, viscose, talking as they speak. And, Mr. Iceta, speaking of gestures: it must be that so much good Mr. Sánchez left the political gesture in Catalonia; so much good today in the place of talking about police have spoken of dialog tables; so much good when he was told about the possibility of making a find, a bilateral summit between the Government of Catalonia, the advisors of the Government Torra, and the ministers of President Sánchez, therefore, did say that yes, it had been done well, and there would have been a government find to Government to speak. That would've been fine, too. So, let's sum it up. And after the calls to 155, which make to put the hairs at the top, please, Members of the Right, it's a lot of right. Members of the Social-Democrats, you are still as social-democrats as you like, as you can, as you know, but above all, Members of the Parliament of Catalonia all, we serve, you serve democracy with democracy. Members of this country, the threat and repression are sadder than it is for. We always defended the right of Members to go out in this rostrum and speak freely, which to say what we think is never an indictment of a later court. A threatened Parliament is, quite simply, a threatened country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.187.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Tribute in memory of former Member and Counsellor Agustí Maria Bassols y Parés]] [[401-00006/12]] Let's move on to the next point of the order of the day, which is Homenatge in memory of the ex-deputy and ex-advisor Agustí Maria Bassols and Parés. And at this point, this point of the order of the day, which is in memory, as we say, of the Honourable Mr.Agustí Maria Bassols and Parés, who madly deputy of this chamber during the second and third legislatures and Councillor of Justice and Governance of the Generality of Catalonia. Before we move on to this tribute, we greet President De Gispert, who is with us today; we also want to greet the widow of Mr. Bassols, Mr. Rosa Pascual, and the rest of the family who are with us today. To make this tribute, the honourable Member Maria Assumption Laïlla has the word. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.188.0	Many honorable Speaker of Parliament, many honorable Speaker of the Generality, honourable Councillors and Councillors, many honorable President De Gispert, illustrious Members of Parliament, family of the Honourable Councillor Bassols, Vice-President of Ómnium Cultural, friends and friends... The 25th of April passed away at the age of ninety-three years the one who madly advised of Justicia and of Governance in different stages of the Government of Catalonia and elected member of this chamber, the Honourable Lord Agustí Maria Bassols and Parés. Augusti was born in Barcelona on June 17, 1924. When he was a little boy, he knew what the por, the dark, the prison, the bombs were. No wonder, his father, in Claudi Bassols, who was a pediatric doctor, an eminence at that time, was detained, embarrassed for a long time and, against all prognostic, finally, liberated. And he didn't run the disarray of his friend, in Manel Carrasco and Antiguera, who was shattered. As it could not be otherwise, Councillor Bassols was already a young man involved in defending the rights, freedoms and future of Catalonia. But also young he knew what his vocation would be. In the seven years I was already clear that I wanted to be a lawyer, a profession that marked him and accompanied him all my life, and, in fact, he said: "The practice of the profession is very nice, it's a very lively career, and it's more helpful to people, and it's also a profession with a lot of responsibility. Counselor Bassols was a family man. La Rosa, his wife, and the girls, Maria Lourdes, Montxi, Rosa, Cristina and Elena, and his son Agustí, who are accompanying us today, but also his nets, his net estimates, have always explained this. The ones we met, the last few years we never saw the sun, he always went with one or the other. It was a person who worked very hard. He always said, "I enjoy working, because justice and Catalonia deserve it. And he got involved socially, civilly, beyond his profession, which naturally took time for the family, a family he was very proud of. Those whom he met in the exercise of his profession consider him a master, a person of deep conviction, a person of word, a man of right, a responsible and consequent city. From this point of view, from this perspective, he always defends the right and justice, and, in fact, one of his great heritages that he leaves us is in the world of the right, and it is his involvement and vision in the hour of deepening and pushing forward the codification of our civil right. His paper was key to the culmination of the Succession Code. From the codification it was said that, "codifying, to capdavall, is nothing more than to legislate with a unitary and systematic criterion that respects a certain target of the right. And he adds: "It is the retreat of a right which exists in a very strong way, ordered and with those innovations that the very use and use of that right have made essential. His work and vital recourse in the world of the right was recognizable with the Creu de Sant Raimon de Penyafort in 1985. He was also a member of the Board of Lawyers of Barcelona between the year 78 and 82. Those of us who knew him in the political arena have lost a referent. Augustine was a compromised person, compromised with the right, but also, and above all, compromised with Catalonia. In the words of the same advisor: « Only of us and our efforts depend on the transformation of Catalonia into a state, a modern, democratic and peaceful state within the European Union. And I believe that this is the conviction that led him to be an activist of the Democratic Union of Catalonia. Councillor Bassols went military to the Democratic Union of Catalonia for more than sixty years – more than sixty years. The year 1946 made the military decision to Union, with Anton Cañellas, at a time when he was carrying the foot of the party was the one who went after the honourable president of this Parliament, Mr Miquel Coll and Alentor. He did so twenty-two years ago, beginning his militancy to the young men of the party, to the Union of Young People. Year 51, together with Anton Cañellas, cross the border and 'go to Nantes, to the Congress of the People's Republic Movement, which was the find of all the European Christian democracies. And when they come back, they find themselves with a war council that, thanks to the intervention of Abbot Escarré, remains in a no-res. At that time, and as Councillor Bassols explained, there were no more than thirty members of the Democratic Union, all of whom knew each other. And it had to be that way, few and only known, because there were neither lists of persons proper to the party, to prevent the police from detaining them for the fact of being part of a dissident entity that was being persecuted. A party that was born on the 31st, had survived during the war and that was, as is obvious, the black list of the regime. It was the time of mouth-to-earth, of trust, of leiality, of compromise. It was a long, hard, convinced, committed and coherent militancy, in fact, as it was, it couldn't be any other way. A militancy that led him to assume internal duties within the party and that also led him to be appointed Councillor of Justicia in 82, of Governorship in 86 and another day of Justicia in 88 until the end of the legislature. I said before that his militancy in the Union was long, hard, convinced, compromised and coherent. And that was until the end of the union. Indeed, during the last years of Unió, Councillor Bassols distanced himself from that which at those times was the direction of the party, discriminating in all positions of Unió referring to national sovereignty and also respecting the internal functioning of the party. Counselor Bassols, like many others, like many of us, considered that Union no longer retained the hope of the 31st, the hope that the founders of the party gave it. A Democratic Union that defends the social justice and freedom of Catalonia without any nuances. I'm sure I'm convinced that his exit from Unió wasn't as he wanted it, or as he imagined it after more than sixty years of militancy. But he doesn't feel like he was either. I can imagine you kept your militancy disparaging strongly from the drift the game was taking. His departure, however, did not go unnoticed. By the year 2015, by the age of ninety-one, it was set at the head of the Democrats of Catalonia, a party that retreated, as you know, the principles of social justice and was clearly independent, and it was one of the founders and of which it was voluntary democrat until his death. The compromise with the country, however, does not only exercise it from the political point of view but also from the civilian point of view. Councillor Bassols was the lawyer who legalized the cultural world when he founded himself with the aim of promoting Catalan language and culture, education, social cohesion and the defence of Catalonia's national rights. And in fact he was a member of the Junta d'Omnium between the years 67 and 77. Also in 2009 he had founded the association Sobirania and Justicia, which wants to promote the independence of Catalonia while sensitizing the Catalan society on the need and the viability of its solitaire for peaceful and democratic lives. He was president for two years and passed the replete to Mr. Quin Torra, now president of the Generality. And long before he was also vice president of the executive committee of the Catalan Congress of Culture between the years 75 and 77. And in fact, as it couldn't be any other way, 2010, in recognition of its trajectory, it was the Creu de Sant Jordi. Counselor Bassols is one of many people essential to know and hear Catalonia, to explain and explain our country. Already 2011, he said: « Catalonia, like all nations, enjoys the right to decide and will decide. His life is a little history of all: dark and light, effort and compromise, past and future. Agustí was a militant of the word; he was a militant of the right, of democracy; militant against injustice and against oppression; militant of Catalonia, of his own, of our independence. As he said: "The independence of Catalonia is a demand for justice. Dear Counselor, your fart is inexorable. As you say, "we can't give up freedom because Catalonia is a great nation, with a lot of history, with a language of culture, a right of deep encounters, a will to be and a few deures to accomplish, and some great ales to be able to fly alone and fly high. Augusti, we will continue faithful to your master's degree, radically compromised, peacefully revolted, persistent, insistent and follow. Because, as Martí and Pol said: "I, tanmateix, the remorse persists. And we'll always remember, dear counselor. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.189.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To the family and friends who are accompanying us today, I pray that they accept our most sincere feeling of friendship and condolence that the Catalan Parliament expresses today. And, to all Members and Deputies, I invite you to keep a minute of silence in the memory of the Honourable Augusti Maria Bassols and Parés. [[A minute of silence at the dempeous chamber.]] Thank you very much. We're still at the next point in the order of the day. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the committees (Rule 49(2))]] The fourth point is the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees must be communicated, as you know, to the plenary. As the current composition has been included in the Ple's file, which has been distributed to all Members, I would like to point out that I am not happy with its reading, yes? Therefore, we give to complete Article 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Decree-Law No 6/2018 of 13 November 2018 relating to the type of taxation applicable to public writings documenting the setting up of mortgage loans or loans]] [[203-00006/12]] And we move directly to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree 6/2018 of 13 November, relating to the type of tax applicable to public writings documenting the setting up of mortgage loans or loans. According to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, he will intervene to defend this decree the Vice President of the Government and the Councillor of Economy and History to expose the reasons for which this decree was promulgated. It has the word, therefore, the Vice President and Counsellor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.190.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members of Parliament, on 13 November the Government of Catalonia approved the Decree on the type of tax applicable to public writings documenting the setting up of mortgage loans or loans, which we are now debating with Parliament because, if it so agrees, it has been validated. As you know, the tax on property transfers and documented legal acts, in their manner of documented legal acts, encumbers what is written in relation to, therefore, the value of the legal negotiation, and in this sense is also encumbers the rent of loans or credits with mortgage guarantee. There has been an extensive discussion, in the last weeks, about who should be the passive subject of this imposition. We all have before us the series starring in the Supreme Court weeks ago, when the third chamber first ruled that the default of the mortgages had to be paid by the financial entities, the lenders of the mortgage loans, in mortgage accounts, which until then were the subject of the obligation to satisfy that tax. It changed the criteria of who was to pay the tax of documented legal acts. The consequences of this judgment, it was argued that they had a great economic and social impact, having an effect on many people, businesses, financial entities and institutions. In order not to widen the scope of this question of the judicial itinerant, that the only one he has done is to add more clearly to the Supreme Court, based on the permeability of certain sectors of the judiciary to the will of other powers of the State or powers financed, finally, after all folded, of vintages and vineyards, of plenary sessions of the Supreme Court, of changes of criteria, of disallowances of judgments, without resources presented, has returned to the previous criterion, and finally the Government of the State has decided to amend the Law of the Tax on documented legal acts, so that whoever has to pay from that moment on the tax was the provider; therefore, the entities financed. All this has not been a minor issue for the Government of Catalonia, because the imposition of capital transfers and documented legal acts is a tribute to the Generality. We have 100_percent of the recapitulation transferred, we have the skills in management, liquidation, inspection, recapitulation and revision of acts dictated by management, and we also have normative skills. From the normative competences, we can establish the applicable tax types, i.e., the percentage that applies according to which manner of documented legal acts, so, as the case may be, and, among others, this applicable tax type, the notarial documents. And we can also establish deductions and allowances from the quota and go on to regulate aspects of management and liquidation. Until the entry into force of the Royal Decree of the Government of Spain amending Article 29 of the recast text of the Law on capital transfers and documented legal acts, and which establishes that it is the provider who has to pay the tax before this change, the Government has established, apart from the general type, other reduced types. These reduced types, which were logical when paying the tax, were the person who made a mortgage loan, the client, and not the financial entity, those reduced types had felt, because they had been approved in accordance with the economic capacity and personal circumstances of which, until then, the tax payer, the borrower, had been; in the banking relationship, the customer. The reduced types took into account the economic capacity of the contributor and became part of the framework of policies to promote access to housing for certain collections. It is obvious that at the present time, when it is no longer the borrower who pays the tax, but it is the financial entity, these economic capacity circumstances no longer compete. Therefore, it was necessary to remove with immediate effects the types of regulated reductions in the letters to and from Article 7 of Law 21/2001, which fix a type of 0.1_per_cent of the mortgage loan documents set aside to acquire declared protected and 0.5_per_cent habitats in the case of documents that formalise the constitution and modification of mortgage loans set aside in favour of taxpayers of thirty-two years or less or with an accredited disability equal to or greater than 33_per_cent for the acquisition of their habitual habitat. That is to say, they do not compete in the nature of the financial entities or the age, nor are they natural persons, nor is their economic capacity considered, nor, obviously, the circumstances of disability, which do apply to people. Therefore, the extraordinary and urgent need to justify the proposed measures is found in the principle of legal certainty, which requires a consistent regulation of the tax type with the new tax rule resulting from the approval of the Royal Decree by the Government of the State. The use of the law decree instrument by the Government of the Generality is justified in this case in the urgent need to establish clearly the type of tax applicable to mortgage loan writings which has been formalised since November 10th and which requires, as it is also recognised in the preamble to the royal state law, a regulatory action, a legislative proposal, this decree law, in short, an immediate action in a shorter time as required in an ordinary legislative procedure. For all these reasons, to clarify the rules in this area, to legal certainty and to consolidate this standard change in favour of the clients of the financial entities and the financial entities that do not bear the costs, we ask that it support the validation of this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.191.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Next, let us move on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. In the first place, has the word the deputy Sergio Sanz, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The time they have is two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.192.0	Thank you, President. I'll be brief, I don't think I'm running out of two minutes, because it's quite a simple question. In our view, this decree makes sense, because, from the changes introduced by the Government of Spain in the tax of documented legal acts, in the registration of mortgages, the tax will be paid by the banks, and not directly by the citizens. Until last November 8th and since the year 95, the taxable person of that tax, that is, the person who settled it, was the citizen who obtained the mortgage, and not the bank that granted it. In 2007, the Generalitat introduced, in some sections of article 7 of the Tax and Financial Measures Act, a reduction in the tax on the acquisition of habitual housing by citizens under thirty-two years of age or with an accredited disability of more than 33 per cent. To be no longer the citizen the taxable person of the tax, but the bank, seems to make sense that those paragraphs are deleted, as stipulated in the decree whose validation is now proposed to us by the Autonomous Government. However, we are all aware in this Parliament that this amendment represents an increase in the collection by the Generalitat, an increase that is expected to be about 16.5 million more euros in the next financial year, resources that with the previous model could be counted as tax aid for the purchase of housing by those groups that were being protected, young people or with some disability, which in addition the latter often also need to do works to make their homes accessible. Without assessing the details of this type of aid, it seems reasonable that the increase in collection should be directed towards policies specifically designed to facilitate access to housing. Look, this is what we understand, and for that reason the day on which the Government of the Generalitat passed this decree from Citizens we recorded motions for resolutions so that those nearly 17_million_of_euros that are going to be collected more are destined for people under thirty-two years of age and people with disabilities over 33_per_cent, because they are also collectives who have serious difficulties in accessing housing. I would like to remind you that more than 30_per_cent of applications for protected housing are applications made by children under the age of thirty-five and that people with disabilities also have problems accessing housing, given that the housing park adapted to accessibility regulations is less than 1_per_cent. That is why, I insist, we think it is important that the increase in revenue that the Generalitat is going to obtain from this amendment is intended for the same groups that benefited from it in the previous tax charges. On the other hand, when we talk about taxes, it is difficult in this Parliament to understand what this government's overall management of public resources is. At national level, and as much as those who imitate the "Rome Thief of the League Nord" say, all Spaniards pay according to their income and receive from the transfers of the State according to the population and the competitive levels of the autonomous communities. From there, autonomous governments can raise transferred taxes or create new taxes. With this model now Catalonia is one of the Spanish regions that have the most public budget per citizen; indeed, also because the Government of the Generalitat has raised to the maximum the rates and charges of autonomous taxes, to such an extent that, in the taxes to which we refer, the acquisition of a protected housing in Catalonia had practically the same tax burden as the acquisition of free housing in communities such as Madrid, the Basque Country or the Canary Islands. And this was done by the Government of Convergence and Republican Left – Convergence or what they call themselves now, because I always get in trouble. By the way, in the previous legislature we proposed to them to modify the ITP to do the progressive, as in other autonomous communities, but they rejected it. Perhaps because they prefer to continue as they have so far, i.e. charging Catalans with taxes, to open propaganda delegations abroad, to continue sharing the highest salaries of autonomous positions, to continue subsidizing the friendly press or injecting millions and millions on TV3. In the meantime, public workers have been waiting more than six years for the return of the extra payments. And it is that, although Catalonia is the community with the highest autonomous taxes and having a public budget per citizen of the elderly in Spain, the mismanagement of its government does not translate into better welfare indicators and the quality of public services. And it is that already said by the current autonomous president, Mr Quim Torra: he is only interested in independence, even if it is Slovenia. We would like them to be interested in other things; for example, not having the highest waiting lists in health, nor the highest rates of school failure, nor the highest levels of child poverty, nor the largest number of evictions in all of Spain, which we also have. We would like you to be interested in all that, even if for some of the people who support you talking about it it is "talking about things that are not essential. As I said at the beginning, it seems that this decree, whose validation we are going to vote on next, makes sense, and that is why we are going to facilitate its validation. But, speaking of essential things, I would like to repeat: we consider it important that this increase in collection be directed by the Generalitat to the same groups that benefited from it, that is to say, to persons aged thirty-two years or less and to persons with disabilities aged 33 per cent or more. That is why we are presenting that motion for a resolution. We hope that they will meet those objectives that we have set for them and that they will also be supported. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.193.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avanceçar, the Member of Parliament Alicia Romero has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.194.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, vice president, councillor, deputies and deputies. As Vice President Aragones said, today, they are going to validate a decree of law, which is true that it is the consequence of the royal decree of law approved by the Government of the State, now, a few weeks ago, after the controversy that there was there about who was to pay the tax of documented legal acts, in relation to the mortgage loan. It had been, since the year 95, the passive subject, the borrower, and it is certain that, in October, the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the Supreme Court changed this criterion, establishing that who was to pay it, therefore, was the provider, that is, who donated or held the mortgage for the purchase of a habitat. In November, just a few weeks later, the plenary of the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the Supreme Court changed this criterion and established that it was the borrower. This obviously creates uncertainty, clearly, huh? , a very important legal uncertainty and legal uncertainty that a government cannot afford– and, precisely, in this Parliament we have not talked about, about the uncertainties and legal uncertainty that a country cannot afford–, above all, in that concrete case or in the concrete case that we are talking about, because it clearly affects consumers and we lived that month in November as mortgages were reduced and as was the case. Therefore, what the State Government did – we believe that with good criteria – was to make a decision to clarify and clarify and specify, therefore, who was to be clearly the passu subject of this aspect, right? Basically, because the judgments they make, often, are to apply or interpret the law. When the law has not just been very clear, it is the legislator who seeks to clarify that law, that is to say, to establish, clearly, without any possibility of error, therefore, which in this case should be the passive subject of a mortgage-guarantee credit. Therefore, this change, which entails the consequence of what Vice President Aragones presented to us today, is that this decree is law to eliminate the reduced type of tax in those collections that he benefited from, right? And I think he explained it very well. Obviously, if you change the passive subject, it's no longer the physical person, so obviously, because now the provider will be the provider, so obviously what needs to be done is to eliminate these types of tax reductions. That will mean, and one of the reports says, more than 16 million additional entries for the Generality. Of course, the taxes are not final and less, so in this respect, but it is 16 million euros that I believe that, I do not know, right now, we would quickly put a list of priorities, right? But, just before, I was talking about it and I was very disappointed with the answer of Constellera Chacón..., so, you might as well go down university taxes, with resources that you didn't expect just one and a half months ago, because, the decree law, the modification of the Government of the State and, therefore, this would be a good proposal, that the Government set it up, with these 16 million euros. Vice President Aragones, you have corrected very well the government to do the job, which is when it comes to eliminating, in this case, therefore, some aspects where they are reduced, so that is to do it, right? Because the government does or has to do is rule, and in this case, it has done well. Now, I can't be a little critical of your management, because it doesn't always do that, and sometimes I'd like to know what the criteria are for you. And, look, I'll tell you, on April 21, 2016, we approved a motion in this Parliament, in what we say..., this Parliament, which, by the way, gave the very honorable President Torra that he is the only organ that he will know and who he will serve in his responsibilities, so, well, he said that it was approved, on April 21, 2016, a motion that in his 1st point said: "Urge the Government to review the various fiscal benefits that the Government of Catalonia applies and to eliminate those that are clearly down. It's been two years and a half, this analysis hasn't taken place, and I think we could be very quick to complete the resolutions of this Parliament. Because, just like you, today, you're going to remove these reductions from the tax types, because you're no longer close, it wouldn't be too bad that, after two years and a half, we present ourselves in this Parliament, as was approved in that resolution, a report on tax benefits, which applies the generality's rules and which we can eliminate because they are clearly retrograde. Because, according to different studies that are not the ones proposed by the Generality, most of these tax benefits affect and benefit the higher classes and with the most economic possibilities. In any case, Mr. Aragones tells me that no, so I would like to thank Vice-President Aragones for bringing us this study, that we voted here, that he approved it and that it would not be bad for you to work and teach us and, therefore, we could all see those tax benefits, which, according to the assumptions of the Generality, would increase to some 10,000_million euros that we would no longer be able to deal with, surely, not all of them are affected or not all of them fall under Catalan law, but it would be good to see those who fall within Catalan law, which are not, but who are able to analyse, because, I say it, there are these tax benefits, according to the fact that the assumption of the General is not fulfilled, but the assumption of the General, but the failure of the General If, in the end, you have done well this time, you have brought us this decree promptly to eliminate these types of tax reductions that you no longer have any sense of, but what we would ask from the Socialist Group is, please, that it complicates Parliament's resolutions, that it makes this study about tax benefits and the possibility of eliminating those that are returned, and, if it turns out that there is no regression, then it would also please us to know it, because, if not, it is the word of one against the other and, like us, this type of dialogue does not please us very much, quite absurdly, therefore, with information about the table, surely, we can speak more clearly. Therefore, this suggestion and this happiness to make the job quick and well done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.195.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Then, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão, has the words of Deputy David Cid. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.196.0	Well, good morning to everyone. I start with a xifra, 60,600_million euros is what the Bank of Spain determines that it has lost the State, in the face of the bank rescue; 60,600_million euros, which is said to be aviat. I would say that there are more than 60,000_million raons falling on the Supreme Court like the shame of shame. I would like to remind you that three Supreme Court rulings resolved that who was responsible for substantiating this tax of legal acts documented in the notary documents of mortgage loan writings, the known as imposing on mortgages, were banks and, in this case, not citizens and citizens. I would like to recall, in this case, that it is an appeal for the Rivas Assembly, for the companies and companies of the United Left and for the good friends Curro García Corrales and Pedro del Cura, who are the mayor, in this case, and the mayor of Rivas Vaciamadrid. And from here, I would say shame, mistrust and, finally, degradation of the Supreme Court, its ultimate degradation, where it is no longer just a politicized court, as we also see, in this case, in the court or future court, in this case, on the former advisers of the Generality, but also a court serving the bank and the interests of the powerful. The decision finally taken, led, in this case, by the judge Díez-Picazo, supposes an estavi or has assumed a estavi for the bank of 5,000_million euros, in this case, before finishing the year; I would say that a good gift of Nadal. In this case, EUR 5,000 million has been saved by the Bank, thanks to the decision of the Supreme Court. And I also want to point out that Díez-Picazo, in this case, has more than obvious links with the bank: his family buffet has defended in numerous disputes, for example, in the clausules only, to the bank; he has also held seminars for institutions linked to the bank..., so we are ahead, in this case, of a politicization and, even so, I would say, of a conference of the Supreme Court to serve the economic interests and the interests of the powerful, as I said. Finally, the Government of the State, in this case, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, on 8 November, passed a decree, therefore, in which it found that who was to subsidize this tax, who was to pay this tax were the banks and were not the citizens of the State. Also, I don't get upset, but I think they're staying in the middle, huh? , because it could have approved the decree applying retroactivity and, therefore, not making this gift of 5,000_million euros to the bank, which is what they have achieved, therefore, not applying retroactivity on the part of the tax. I believe that the government's decree is moving forward in the right direction, as explained, there are three types that existed: for mortgage loans to less than thirty-two years old, protected habitats and persons with a degree 3 or higher accredited disability. If, for us – I also want to say this – I didn't have this kind of deduction or bonus, because they are buying-oriented, and we believe that the bulk of policies, in this case, the economics of the Generality have to go to the promotion of lloger and not to the promotion of purchase, it is clear that it has much less to say when we are talking about this tax not being paid by the citizens, but in this case it will be paid by the banks. I therefore believe that it is also important – in this case it was not mentioned, but it would also be good – for the Government of the Generality to take on board the compromise that different bodies of the Generality such as, for example, the Catalan Consumer Agency, because the banking entities do not affect this payment of the tax on customers and, in this case, on citizens who do not have to deal with it. He also said that the tax of documented legal acts, for which he refers..., has a recapitulation I would say that it is no less in the Generality's presupposition, we are talking about the year 2017 being 460_million euros and that is expected, according to the forecasts of the same Government, that this year is 479_million euros. But if I told you before the Spanish government stayed half way, I have the feeling that the Catalan government is also staying half way in this decree. I do not deny, in this case, the advisor that Catalonia has, in this case, the highest types, together with other new autonomous communities, of this tax, which is, basically, a type of 1 and a half. But back to the beginning, we are ahead of a situation where banks, in this case, have cost the State, the bank scratch has cost the State more than €60,000_million, and it is also evident that the benefits of the bank are every time more ingenious: « The Caixa, €1,768_million in the first months of this year, a new growth of 18_percent; the Santander Bank, €3,713_million in the first half of this year, an increase in the admissions of 17,5_percent; the Bilbao Vizcaya Bank, €2,649_million in the first six months of this year, a 15_percent more. In total, the bank, only in the first six months of this year, has achieved a benefit of 8,600_million euros, which supposes an increase of '11_per_cent respects the benefits of the past year. Therefore, the measure that is presented today, which is certain to increase the Generality's recapitation, according to the studies made by our Catalonian economic group in Comú Pode, are around 12_million euros, if we add the whole package, are, I suppose, these 17 that you gave of recapitation that will have, in this case, the Generality for this concept; therefore, it supposes an increase of 12_million euros, that it is not smaller, but it supposes only 1.6 more of the recapitation of the total amount of the tax. In any case, we also make him a proposal. As it turns out, they're not willing to push the IRPF to higher levels, are they? , what does that look like to the coast; they have a concept of medium returns a little surprising, because we are talking about more than 175,000_euros..., I propose it, is that, why don't we touch the type of this tax? Why don't we increase, in this case, for example, half the tax on this tax? As I said, according to the studies of our Catalonian economic group in Comú, we could increase, only with this half point, practically, EUR 76_million of recaptancy of the tax and, therefore, this would not be paid by the middle classes, so much so that they would worry us, too, but not by the upper classes, which it seems that you would want to protect, but in this case the bank would pay. Therefore, we propose it: why don't we increase the collection of this tax and that the bank pays it, which, as I explained, has a benefit of 8,600_million euros more throughout the State only in the first six months of the year? Miri, I like three things or Catalonia in common like three things of a government, above all, that fight against inequality, that redistribute wealth and, above all, that it is a strong government with strong and sensitive with fevers. And I, today, tell him the truth is that these attributes I don't see in his government. I have the feeling – and I say it frankly – that you have already decided to go to the presuppositional prorogation. Yes, there will be a presuppositional extension; at these heights... you know that without the presupposition presented, at these heights, with the Rules of Parliament..., you know that we will begin, for the new year as a result, all that you have compromised that it would not be so, for the new year as a consequence we will begin, in this case, right? , the year with presuppositional prorogation. And I think it's happening because... I honestly think they don't have real interest in negotiating the assumptions, basically, for the embolism they have between you, among other things, surely, because they don't agree with the taxes and, especially, about the IRPF, as they expressed in public. But I'm also saying it... or we don't stop making proposals to increase tickets and to shield social and public services in this case. We're going to make another proposal again: are you willing to increase a tax that will not pay the citizens, but will pay the bank? There are €76 million more, which, in this case, would go directly to the arks of the Generalitat. So, so, as you see, we work because we can approve some assumptions, not only in Catalonia but also in the State, with which we also re-place for the first time. And I'm saying, I'm very sorry, but I have the feeling that you really aren't negotiating, you haven't been able to send us any kind of documentation about the assumptions yet. And, therefore, in any case, I have the feeling that you have already decided that I am sure that, as a minimum, this year we will begin it, for the new year as a result, as I say, with presuppositional prorogation, that I believe that it is not the one that should make a government that has the obligation and the need to govern for all citizens, and that it has at these times, I would say, wrong concerns. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.197.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.198.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Well, to announce briefly our position at this point: we will abstain in the vote. We are talking about the suppression of bonuses on a payment that, as such, should never have existed, because the bank should have paid it, and which, moreover, forms part of public policies that are wrong, oriented towards promoting the rule of ownership in housing when we know that this is the source of the generation of a model of commercialization of a basic right, such as that of housing, that the ally of the abst of the popular classes, instead of encouraging policies of social dialogue. So we don't want to go into this logic, and we'll abstain from this point. That, moreover, it gives the paradox that is produced at a time when it is at a time when it does denunciations in Catalonia; at a dramatic, tragic time, when it does the situation of denunciations in our country – is to say that, in a very high percentage, precisely – because of the lack of public policies of social loguer. Therefore, we challenge and challenge the marketing policies of a basic right such as that of housing. We also want to use it to denounce the complicity between the bank and the judiciary. It is not only politicized, it is also commercialized, with connections to the bank, as we have seen in the recent revised Supreme Court resolution. When we talk about the 78th rule, we also talk about this, about this immoral connection between justice and the bank. Therefore, develop public policies of expropriation of empty habitats and put them at the service of the social loguer; intervene urgently in the market of loguer with policies of social loguer and protection of people who need to lodge a habitat as the only way to access the basic right of habitation, and, if you please, bring this wisdom to light, this social tragedy of denominations. Then we can talk about housing policies. And, please, I also urgently take advantage of it so that, from our country, we can urgently recover this immoral ransom, these more than 60,000_million from the bailout at the bank. And, therefore, we develop fiscal policies that allow us to increase taxes on their activities and recover, as soon as possible, this servant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.199.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.200.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, counsel, deputies and deputies, only as reminders: the tax on legal acts documented for documents to public loan writings with mortgage guarantee have an anti-guidance of thirty-three years. I am saying this because it seems that there is now someone who seems to have always defended that this tax would have to pay a few different people than they were paying until now. It is precisely in this year that the controversial outcome of some Supreme Court judgements arises. And, above all, after the Supreme Court's rectification with regard to who should be the passive subject of this tax, whether the one that repre sents the loan or the one that gives the loan, vaja, the buyer or the financial entity that facilitates the acquisition of a habitat. In this sense, the Government dictates a royal decree for which it changes the law of the year 95, and, therefore, the passive subject ceases to be the one who reprehenses the loan and becomes immediately the financial entity and in this way the situation is clarified and the double result of the contradictory judgments of the Supreme Court is also clarified. Arrived at this point, therefore, seems logical the decree laid down by the Government, which is to say: "Select us, in this tax, that it is a tax given to the Generalitat, it is a tax given to the communities, there are a series of bonuses to benefit certain collections, such as young people, such as disabled people or as buyers of protected housing, they have some benefits, and as long as the passive subject are no longer these people, but they are other entities, which are, in this case, the entities financed, therefore, have the whole sense of the world to suppress these benefits. Well, then, until here we can agree. Now, we think it's worth doing, as a minimum – as a minimum, as a minimum – two reflections, right? One: do we have all the guarantees to ensure that this tax that is now paying the financial entities will not end up having an impact on the customer? Doesn't it end up having an impact on the buyer? So no. As much as you try to control that this cost does not impact on the cost of mortgages, at the end, listen to me, this, one way or another, will end up happening. And, therefore, this is not the end that we would like with regard to this tax. It is to say, that it continues to pay for the people who acquire the habitation, that it continues to pay for the citizens and that, moreover, it is done in a more or less hidden way. Therefore, this is an aspect that we do not like, and that, as things stand, we would be in favour, even more so, of abolishing this tax for this concrete type of documented legal act, which are mortgage-guaranteeed prestec scripts. But let me give them another thought by raising their eyes a little more, huh? And it is that some other Member refers to the situation of the joint taxation that we support the Catalans as a result of the decisions of this very Parliament, and therefore as a result of decisions of the Government of the Generality. It seems to me that it is today that it will make public an index of fiscal competitiveness that draws up an organization that calls itself the Union of Contributors. I'm not going to tell you anything new, it's just a more obvious document than we've seen in Parliament many years ago: from the global point of view of taxation, Catalonia is – oh, surprise! – in the last position of all communities. That is to say, Catalonia is the community with less competitiveness, from the fiscal point of view, in relation to the rest of the Spanish communities. But it also makes specific reference to the imposition of documented legal acts, and also – oh, surprise! – in documented legal acts..., here we are not alone, there are other communities that are also in the last position of fiscal competitiveness in relation to the group of communities. Therefore, we believe that before this situation, what is worthwhile is a broader and deeper reflection on taxation in Catalonia and on the effects of that taxation on competitiveness, if that is what interests them and not the distractions of other things. And, therefore, our group will not prevent the approval of the decree, but we will not be able to support it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.201.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of the deputy Lluis Salvado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.202.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, well, before bringing to an end the planned intervention, some considerations on some of the interventions that have been completed by some of the previous interventions. A bit of an explanation of what was approved of the 2017 Bill of Measures, because in some of the interventions it seems that many of the things that were done at the time, that are the last assumptions that this Parliament has approved, have become obvious or obvious. In that Bill of Measures, and I am talking about memory, Mrs Romero, the tax benefits which, after having been studied, as approved by this Parliament, were considered to be more regressive were eliminated. And I'm referring to two, I seem to remember that they were a few more. They eliminated deductions from investments in the alternative stock exchange market, which had certainly been approved at the time that the Economics Department was in the hands of the Socialist Party. They also eliminated deductions from higher yields for the acquisition of habitat. And also in that Bill of measures of 2017 it was an important increment to the IAJD, especially in that segment of resignation..., in those companies that renounced the exemption from VAT. It was done..., the deputy of Ciutadans, it was done the progressive ITP, it increased the 11_per_cent in those acquisitions that exceeded the million euros. Therefore, it progressed in the progress of the ITP. They approved a good staple of our environmental taxes. It was incorporated... there was a substantial increase in taxes on the dark-butxacal machines, which, if I don't recall it badly, we were talking about a hundred million euros. Therefore, on the last assumption that this Parliament has had the opportunity to approve, steps have already been taken; those most regressive tax benefits have already been eliminated; there has also been a select increase in some taxes, especially those directly involved in the field of housing. In any case, some more consideration. The proposal has been made that this increase, which was not approved today, but that this increase was approved by the Socialist Party in Madrid when it approved its royal decree, this 16_million euros. In any case, obviously, it is not a finalist imposition, and therefore, I assume that the Economic Advisor will be absolutely delighted to be able to debate with all of you in the elaboration and processing of future assumptions on where these new entries are intended. And, in any case, also, on some of the interventions, it seems to me that we all share the challenge, before a high risk force, that this imposition, which, from the approval of the royal decree, on behalf of the government of the PSOE, finally end up being transferred, end up being impacted by the world of customers. And, obviously, it's a risk we all have to conjure to avoid; but obviously, we have to be aware of the risk we have from the table. And, in any case, a final consideration on the intervention of the deputy of the People's Party. When it comes to fiscal competitiveness, there are obviously different perspectives here, which apply to most European countries and apply to more flatter countries. As has sometimes been explained in this room, the European Union's fiscal pressure is eight points, seven points, from the fiscal pressure to the Spanish State. And, in this sense, the most developed, most progressive, most advanced countries in our socio-political context have much higher fiscal pressures. Therefore, the concept of competitiveness obviously holds behind a very important ideological load. In any case, as the Vice-President explained a few moments ago, the approval of this decree is the consequence of a whole set of circumstances, of disproposals; of a number of flagrant contradictions within the same Spanish judicial system, and of a very explicit pressure from the banking system on the administrative content room of the Supreme Court. A judicial system which, despite the fact that many stoically continue to resist the discourse that it is an independent element, seems to me that every day the judicial system strives very hard to prove that the independent has absolutely nothing. And we have seen how the very independent summit of the Supreme ended up revoking a feeling from his third room in an unprecedented decision in the judicial system, and it ends up assuming the pressures of a banking system, which you obviously see directly, as his stock market shares grow in a very important way and as a huge economic quantity rises, in 2016, at this global level of the whole of the state stood at 1,800_million euros. In any case, thank the Vice-President and the Secretary of Hisenda that before this chaos some element works to strengthen the legal security of taxpayers, and that it works to try to clarify the interpretation of tax standards. Also gratify the Department of Economics and History for its celerity in its reaction. The Government of the State approves its Royal Decree on 8 November and the Catalan Government approves it only five days later. And above all it is emphasized that this decree, above all, clarifies the interpretation of the legislation, eliminates some assumptions that they no longer have any sense at this time, but that it is a decree that, in any case, eliminates tax benefits to young people or disabled people, because this already does – and it has already been done in an immediate way – from the moment the Royal Decree of the State changes the contributor, and the contributor becomes the bank, and therefore the bank does not answer to the assumptions that implied the fact of being able to hold certain types reduced, because the bank is neither young nor disabled. The decree eliminates, in any case, outdated aspects of the legislation, and, therefore, it is important that you do so, because, before the interpreted chaos that has arisen from various judicial judgments, it is important that the standard mark follows as clearly as possible. In any case, it must also be acknowledged that the joint response by the Government of the Spanish State and also by the Government of Catalonia to all this earthenware generated for the judicial system has served to improve the previous situation, and, in any case, it is also worth noting that it has been resolved without bringing tax administrations, among others the Catalan one, to a chaos of very, very significant dimensions. This sudden and radical change of criteria on the part of the Supreme would have forced autonomous tax administrations to return drawings of thousands of liquidations and re-liquidate them once more. Until the judgment of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court on October 16th, no one doubted who was the subject of the tax on documented legal acts. It is a tax that, as has also been mentioned, has been in force since 1993, and there have since then been drawings of judgments, both on the part of the judicial institutions and on the part of the administered economic courts, judgments and resolutions that supported the interpretation that the borrower was, it was the client, the buyer of the immovable, on which this tax was to be settled. And there has been a line of case law that has been in force for twenty-five years and that has remained constant, without any doubt, and, in fact, Article 68 of the AJD's Rules of Procedure – an article that has been suspected, has been deleted, by the Supreme Court's judgment – made it very clear that when it comes to the creation of loan-in-guaranteed scripts the lender would be considered to have acquired it, and therefore the rules made it very clear. In any case, it was a lightening that had little sense, which contradicted the common sense. And in this sense, it is worth noting that the judgment of the Third Chamber of the Supreme places the focus on an interesting element, which is worth having in mind, and which explains the fact that it must be the one that benefits from a transit, in this case the bank, follow the one that ends up paying the tax. And the bank benefits in the measure that the mortgage, the fact of putting the mortgage, which is what we are recording, through the Property Registry, its incorporation into the Property Registry, obviously allows the bank a greater security at the time of recovering its investment in the field of the mortgage. And, therefore, as the bank is the only beneficiary of this procedure, it must be the person who pays the tax, in this case, of the documented legal act. In any case, simply end by saying that it is obvious that the Spanish State's judicial system has much to improve; that it has a serious problem of independence, rigour and credibility, and it seems to me that it is essential that all of us apply to give greater legal certainty to our taxpayers, citizens and institutions, who certainly deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.203.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word the deputy Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.204.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Vice-President, will advise... First of all, congratulate the council for the swiftness of this change to transfer a tax benefit to the citizenry. Obviously, the proposed 10th of September came into force the Royal Decree Llei of 17/2018, of 8 November, for which is modified article 29 of the text refos of the Law on the tax of transfers of assets and documented legal acts, and establishes that in the prestec scripts with mortgage guarantee is the provider the taxable subject of the tax. Therefore, from this date onwards, it is the financial entities that grant loans and in favour of which the mortgages constitute the taxable taxable persons in the manner of documented legal acts. Therefore, the public writings that are formalized as of November 10th will be submissive to this system of tribute. And for its part, in Catalonia, Article 7 of Law 21/2001 of 28 December, which regulates the types of tax of documented legal acts, which establishes a general type and other types of reductions, approved precisely in accordance with those circumstances, such as economic capacity and other personal circumstances, which until then had been contributed by the taxable person, these circumstances obviously no longer compete in the event that the taxable person is the banking entity, the supplier entity, and, therefore, would have to delete with immediate effects these types of reductions. Obviously, the extraordinary and urgent need to justify the measures is found in the principle of legal certainty, which requires a consistent regulation of the types of taxation with the tax system and, obviously, the use of the instrument of the law decree is justified by the urgent need to establish clearly these types of taxation and to do so with as much patenting as possible. Now, we cannot fail to consider that this change derives, precisely, from the changes in criteria, to which reference has already been made in the previous interventions, on the part of the Supreme Court, in that, from entry, with a resolution which was favourable to the interests of the consumer, which is favourable to the interests of the citizen, it was paralyzed before a judgment already dictated, which is absolutely unheard of, it paralyzed for such a change of criteria, which, obviously, denotes, first of all, places the issue in total legal uncertainty. And, moreover, it denotes the total control and politicization of the Supreme Court on the part of the political organs, which, moreover, in this case, as in many other cases, what they do is precisely subtly subtly 'the power of the executive and subtly 'the power, precisely, of the big companies, especially the bans. I therefore resolve in favour of the banks and against the consumer. In fact, this was clear because it was only with the release of the first favourable judgment to who was to pay the imports, which was the citizenry, that they caused remarkable falls to the stock exchange – certainly much higher than the declaration of independence of October 27th – and, in turn, immediately they were able to recover this value in stock exchange with the change of criteria by the Supreme Court. We should not be surprised by this behavior of the Supreme Court if we take into account the manipulated and politicized form of the appointment of the General Council of the Judiciary that we still have pending. But this modification of today, of the tax of documented legal acts, we have to frame it in a more general situation. There is Directive 93/13 of the European Union concerning precisely the relationship between unfair clauses and transparency in contracting, which as always the Spanish State in its strictly extractive Europeanism, but always, in change, with great indolence at the time of transposing community directives that benefit consumers. We have a state that does not protect its citizens and precisely the rights of these consumers in these abusive clauses in the banking contract, which have not been subject to global regulation by the state. This has been done on a point-by-point basis and as a result of all the judicial inconsistencies, which we have commented on before, but in change, there is a whole range of unfair clauses in all the mortgages that the State could have had the opportunity to regulate precisely for the consumer and has not done so. These abusive clauses all of us know that there has been the most well-known "clousula" known as the "clousula" alone, that the only correction that has to come is judicial. There was no regulation on the part of the State in favour of the consumer and, precisely, in application of community directives. And so let's keep in mind that the Supreme Court's 2013 ruling that it did determine that the clause was void and, therefore, had to eliminate its effects, however, limited its retroactive effect from issuing the ruling on May 2013 and also to a resolution for the benefit of the bank, as always resolved for the benefit of IBEX 35, limited this retroactiveity. It was not until a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in September 2016 that the Supreme Court – as European justice always has to do with injustice – had to be heard and said that effectively when a clause is declared null and void, that it is something that is to the right-wing calves, it must not have any effect and that the effects of the imposition of the clause must be null and void. So, from the beginning of the contract. In order to do this, they did the piece of Royal Decree Law 1/2017 that are the clauses only that instead of imposing on the bank the cancellation of these clauses only and returning the money to all the citizens and to all the consumers who had paid in excess, it was limited to establishing a system of pa sucked with oil, which was an absolute weakness because it left the return in absolute voluntarity of the bank. Which they obviously haven't done in the vast majority of cases. Because these abusive clauses are many more: interests of undue delay, early retirement with only one payment, commissions, expenses, taxes, among them that of documented legal acts that brings us here. That, moreover, has entailed that all the charge of defending his rights and cancelling these clauses has fallen to the citizenry and has fallen to the consumer who has found himself unprotected by the State. In addition to these expenses, there have also been a number of contradictions in the courts of first instance, which have in many cases implied that, despite the fact that the reason given to the taxpayer in part has not been met with cost. And, therefore, the costs of this claim of your right have ended in many cases in the consumer. This has caused the judicial collapse, some concrete judgments have been appointed, on the 50th of Barcelona, on the 8th of Tarragona. A brutal judicial collapse, which we have had occasion to see precisely to the Commission of Justice, which causes delays in the resolutions in damages of the consumer of which the bank does not have the slightest incentive to settle it in a friendly way. We have a state that, we know, that wants to be subjects; that what you want is – in tax terminology – passive subjects, but, in change, you don't want to be citizens. And we're still holding this city republic project in free. And we can't help but remember that we arrived at forty years ago, recently commemorated the forty years of the 78th Constitution. A Constitution that was written at the tip of the sword, a Constitution that was simply the continuation of the regime of the forty years before and, in these forty years, we arrive with political prisoners, with a famous vagueness because of violations of their rights, more elementary and more phonative, no longer to demand freedom, which is what the Constitutional Court would seek, but simply, and for all those who always fill the mouth of the compliment of the law and the compliment of the law, therefore, that the Constitutional Court completes the law. And the resources of the government, which are for the use of phone-rights, and which have to be solved in thirty days and carry more than one year without being solved, and use them not precisely to buy the rights but to violate the rights. This is the state we have. But that's why we will insist on our republic of free citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.205.0	We're done with the debate, we're calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of this decree and that the votes denied, in change, are in favour of the derogation. So let's vote on the validation of Decree Illi 6/2018. The vote begins. This Decree Law 6/2018_is validated by 61 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. According to Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, one time this decree has been validated, I ask the chamber if any parliamentary group wants it to be passed... [[Widow's remorse.]] That this decree is passed as the bill of law. Is there a group? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So, as long as there is no petition, that this Decree is passed by it, the decree is validated. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. [[The session is suspended at two quarters of three in the late and four minutes and is resumed at four and three minutes. He chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by first and second vice-presidents and secretaries first, second and third. Attend the table the major lethargy, the late Anna Casas and Gregory, the late Ferran Domínguez Garcia and the listener of accounts.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.206.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, vaginas sit on your scons, please... let's resume the session. [[Accumulated Presumption Projects of the Parliament of Catalonia and the Council of Statutory Guarantees, the Union of Accounts and the Syndicate of Greuges for 2019]] [[230-00001/12 and 230-00002/12]] The next item on the agenda, the fifth item, is the Catalonian Parliament's Presupposition Project for 2019; one_five point that we will see together with the SIS, is to say, the Presupposition Project of the Board of Statutory Guarantees, the Union of Accounts and the Greuges Syndicate, also for the 2019 fiscal year. The presentation of the assumptions will be made by the first vice president, Mr Josep Costa, and, once the intervention is over, we will take a joint vote on all the suggestions for assumptions. So, Vice President, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.207.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselors, counselor, one of the expressions of the sovereignty of this Parliament is the approval of its assumptions without interference and without intervention by other bodies or powers. I speak today as the first Vice-President of Parliament to expose and defend an agreement of the enlarged Bureau of this chamber, in particular the enlarged Bureau of 26 November, which approved the draft budget for 2019. And to go into the matter, even though it's a bit of a mess, I'm going to do a summary of the numbers and the most important parties, because all of you have knowledge. The presupposition of the Parliament for the 2019 financial year is up to 61.179.004_euros, which means an increase of 7_million_i_mig respects the previous presupposition, which is that of 2017. We must remember that 2018 didn't have the presupposition of this chamber, but at these times we are operating with the presupposition extended. This shows that we have made an important effort to reverse the austerity period that we still suffer and that all public sector institutions still suffer. In absolute terms, the numbers are still not comparable to the better assumptions we have, such as the year 2008, that Parliament held a presumption of 72_million euros, that is, 11_million more than the presumption we present today. That is to say, we had then, in 2008, two years ago, a 15,2_per_cent more presupposition, still, than we have today. This means that, with the increase we are presenting, we still have a few presuppositional parties, a lot of assumption over the levels before the adjustments and the austerity period. To what do the resources in this Project of assumptions, basically? I will break it down by chapters and explain a little, basically, the elements that explain the variations of this assumption. The chapter and, obviously, the most important, as it has always been. It is, in fact, the 51_percent of Parliament's budget; we are talking about 31_million_i_mig euros. It is a considerable increase, which is basically due to a couple of circumstances. The first and most important is the fact that two years ago we don't have any assumptions; therefore, we don't have to compare ourselves to the assumptions of the past year, but rather to compare ourselves to the assumptions of 2017, which has the circumstance that was approved in 2016 without predicting the increase in wages that we had to make for 2017. Therefore, Chapter I – and this is the important fact, which makes it seem that we are increasing much Chapter I and actually not so much – incorporates the increase in the salaries of Parliament's three-year, three-year staff. There are also two elements that distort or could distort a comparison of the assumption with previous exercises. First, there is an increase in Chapter I of the Presupposition which derives strictly from the compliment of the Bureau's agreements implementing the transitional provision under the Rules of Procedure for which it makes the gradual and progressive reduction of the compensations paid to the Members and converted into wages for all of us. Therefore, this implies a change from Chapter II to Chapter I of these remunerations. And suppose also the fact that these salaries have to pay and have tax deductions, which is an added cost to Parliament, so that you do not imply a decrease in net entries for parliamentarians. And, on the other hand, there is another important item that was first included in Chapter I of the budget, which is the endowment to pay the coordinators of parliamentary groups. The cost of these coordinators was previously in the government's general budget and, therefore, the fact that has now been passed on to these parties assumes that in Chapter I of Parliament there is a million euros that were not there before. Also, as I said, there are increments that refer to previous exercises, not just the 2019 exercise. For example, they consolidate 2019 increments in the salaries of Parliament staff of 2017 and 2018, eh? For the first time appear in Chapter I of the presupposition which would be the increment of the '1_per_cent corresponding to 2017 and the increment of the '1,75 of 2018. This obviously involves these two exercises that were not computed, as well as the question of staff antiquities and credits corresponding to social contributions. In this band, there is also a question, which is the agreement of the Bureau of March 19, 2018 that approves the portfolio structure of the Dozene Legislature, which, in fact to have a superior number of parliamentary groups, also increases the cost of the portfolio structure. For what it does to the chapter increments that are strictly of the exercise 2019, there is an increase in the salaries of the staff of this house, of the Parliament, of 2,25, according to what are the remuneration pacts of the public office at the state level, and that, depending on certain circumstances or variables, can end up being of 2 and mig percent. Therefore, in relation to the last assumption that this chamber approved, the salaries of the staff will work for this Parliament, nominally, are 5_per_cent. Naturally, there are also the salaries of the deputies, who did many years before they were frozen, after having set, say, reduced to the beginning of the period of austerity. For the first time since the beginning of the austerity period, for the first time, Dec, there is an increase in the salaries of the deputies that will be the 1,75_per_cent for the year 2019. Therefore, we are making the first burst of sound from the Members of the House of Representatives, from the cuts that have been made to the principles of the austerity period, and that, in any case, it is an increase that is lower than inflation, that is lower than the increase that is expected to work and that is also lower than what they have approved for this exercise in 2019 at the Congress of Deputies or the Senate. Therefore, we say, we maintain a contention, a austerity, still, for what it does to the salaries of the Members, as we will also see – for what it does to the subsidies of the parliamentary groups. To say, to these effects, that the deputies who are bearers or members of the Bureau of some committee, at these times, after the adjustment to the height we do in this assumption, maintain a remuneration equivalent to that which they had in the year 2006. The presidents and spokespersons of parliamentary groups and the members of the Bureau still maintain, approximately, the remuneration they had in fiscal year 2005. Obviously, as it cannot be in any other way – but, in the light of what has been raised previously, it is important to express it – the presumption provides, logically, for the full remuneration of the 135 members of this Parliament. For what it does to Chapter II, we are talking about a minimal variation compared to 2017. This chapter is EUR 10,3_million, which represents 6.87_percent of the budget, which is slightly higher for the maintenance, audiovisual installations and computer applications and for various services, as well as requests for the Information and Telecommunications Department, and, for another band, is reduced in compensation for travel and travel by Members of Parliament, which, as I explained earlier, is transferred to Chapter I. Chapter IV are current transfers. The variation is also minimal, and represents 26.4_percent of the budget, which basically lowers the subsidy to parliamentary groups and sub-groups. In this sense, I would like to remind you that the only public contribution that political parties and parliamentary groups make to Catalonia is that which comes from Parliament and that, say, this does not happen to all the other institutions or all the other territories, but that, in any case, is the most important part of this chapter. And to say that the fact that the number of parliamentary groups of this chamber has varied has also meant a slight increase in this game but that it is already in force, it is already, say, satisfied since March 6, 2018, for which it was agreed to the Enlarged Bureau, which is the subsidies to parliamentary groups. Therefore, this assumption backs the parties to make effective in the exercise 19 these subsidies that are already approved and are in force. For what it does to Chapter VI, finally, this assumption up to more than 3_million euros. He's making an important effort after all this austerity. We're still a long way from the investment game that we had in 2011 and that we had in 2010. Now we don't even get to the half of the 7,7 million we had in 2010, but, nevertheless, we are multiplying by more than three what were the investments we had in the last few years. The increase in this type of expenditure is due to investment projects that are long overdue by the Infrastructure Department, Equipment and Security and the Information and Telecommunications Department. It is clear that the austerity period has generated a number of cumulative reversal needs that make it impossible to postpone the increase in this chapter of investments. Among the investment projects that are planned to be implemented or initiated during 2019, some of them of multi-annual nature, I would like to highlight a few, because it is an idea of what these investments are that are embedded in the assumption. There should be restoration works, cleaning and consolidation of the subsequent work; the reform and adaptation of room 10; the replacement of air conditioning machinery in accordance with the regulations in place of rooms 5 and 6; the adaptation of installations to the hearing room; the replacement and reform of furniture to the committee rooms and meetings; external installations relating to the perimeter and restricted area of security and access to the Parliament; adaptations to the harpsichord, arches and sifons; impermeability works, clarity adaptation; investments in electronic voting equipment of rooms 1 and groups, and for which it does information systems, it is anticipated that various projects related to the management of the computer system will be started. They see that there are many things to do, and the resources we would devote to all these investments are still insufficient for the modernization and renewal that this Parliament needs, in our view, to do. For what it does, finally, to which are the assumptions of the Union of Accounts, the Syndicate of Greuges and the Council of State Guarantees, to clarify, as it is known for all of you surely, that it is a matter of assumptions that independently prepare the bodies in question, without prejudice to which we, in the House of Parliament, have to debate and approve these accounts, even though we have not participated in their production little or much. Anyway, the summary of these data, these institutions, huh? , would be the following: the Project of Presupposition of the Union of Accounts represents an increment of 4.36_per_cent in relation to 2017, assuming a xifra of more than 11_million euros. This rise in the budget of the Union of Accounts is, above all, due to an increase in staff resulting from a change in the ratio of jobs still pending approval. In any case, there is a negative adjustment, which diminishes, because 2017 were exceptionally high to meet the change in its union in which it is the chapter of investments. For what it does at the premises of the Board of Guarantees Statutes, there is an increment of 3.44_per_cent, absorbing a xifra of more than 3_million euros. The increase in staff salaries corresponded to increases in workers' salaries, which had not been included before, in 2017 and 2018, and therefore consolidated the increase in the sum of three exercises, and growth was very linear in the rest of the chapters. Finally, for what it does to the Greuges Syndic's Project of Presupposition, it increases by 4.59_per_cent, absorbing the total xifra of 6,5_million euros. In this case, too, the salary increases of exercises 17 and 18, which were not inclusive, are consolidated, and the Agreement for the Improvement of Public Employment and Working Conditions, of March 9, 2018, is incorporated by 2019. The number of places assumed is reduced in one endowment and the accumulated reduction of places since 2010 is of twenty-three places of work, according to the memory that has brought the union to us. As was said before, neither a servant nor the Vice-President nor the Bureau have intervened in the making, in the elaboration of these assumptions, but, as autonomous entities they are, we must transfer to the plenary of the Parliament to debate and approve them if you consider it appropriate. In summary, and finally, he wanted to point out that the increase in Parliament's budget of €7.5 million still leaves us far ahead of the figures we had before the austerity period. Therefore, we must seek to pursue resources in order to achieve the level of modernization and reversal that we would like for this Parliament, in order to face, say, all the investments that we have to deal with and that are more necessary than ever after this stage of more austerity, but that we are making a step forward with this increase, which leaves us with, as I say, 11 million euros more than we had before 2010. This presupposition prioritizes two things: it prioritizes people, it prioritizes the workers of the house, and it prioritizes investments in infrastructure. If you had to make a summary of this assumption, I'd say he's making an effort to take care of the staff, to take care of the workings of this house. In fact, we have made an effort to negotiate with the Staff Council to reach an agreement, to hold a social gap, to have, in fact, the staff satisfied in their demands, because they are an essential part of the parliamentary gear, as it could not otherwise be in an institution like this, and it also makes an important investor effort to put up a lot of equipment, many infrastructures that we have. In the rest, we maintain the austerity for which he makes remunerations for Members and contributions to parliamentary groups. That is to say, we reverse the austerity situation for what it does to people working in Parliament, to the functioning of Parliament and to investments in infrastructure, and we maintain austerity in the rest. Therefore, I understand that in the same measure that there was consensus in the Enlarged Bureau to approve this premise, it will also have the support of this plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.208.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Cid, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.209.0	To ask for a separate vote on Parliament's position and to explain our vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.210.0	Okay. We're calling it a vote. In any case, do we call for a vote and... shall we vote separately, in question, from Parliament's premises, and from the rest of the bodies? Together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.211.0	The rest of the organizations together, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.212.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.213.0	In our case, from our parliamentary group we will vote in a negative way on Parliament's assumption, because, even if we share, in this case, that, obviously, the reversal must be increased, that the salaries to the workers and workers must be increased, and we also share the Bureau's agreement in this sense because the payment is no longer a diet, and in this case I am taxed, we understand, and we have already expressed it this way, that we do not agree with the salary increase, in this case, of the Members and Members, as we did not agree with the salary increase of the Government of the Generality, and therefore vote that we do not. We understand, in addition, above all in a context that, for example, public workers trigrate four years to recover the pay, in this case, you pay them retail for 2013 and 2014. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.214.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.215.0	Yeah. Also for a separate vote and explanation of vote. We are going to ask for a separate vote from the Presuppost Project section of the Greuges Syndic, and we will not support the budget of the Syndic's Office, due to the enormous precariousness in which it keeps the staff of its office.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.216.0	Therefore, for which I have understood, there was a separate vote, first of all, on the premises of the Parliament; the premises of the Board of Guarantees, on the one hand, and of the Syndicate of Greuges, on the other. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Is that right? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Pause.]] We will vote, therefore, in the first place, the proposal for the pressupost of the Parliament of Catalonia for 2019, then we will vote the proposal for the pressuposts of the organs of the Board of Guarantees Statutes and the Union of Accounts, and, finally, the proposal for pressupost for the institution of the Syndic of Greuges. We vote, therefore, first, on the Proposal for Presuppositions of the Parliament of Catalonia. The vote begins. The proposal of assumptions for the Parliament of Catalonia for the 2019 financial year is approved by 116 votes in favour, 10 against and no abstentions. We now vote on the proposal for the Presumables of the Statutory Guarantee Board and the Union of Accounts. The vote begins. These two proposals for assumptions were approved by 124 votes in favour, against and two abstentions. Let us now vote, finally, on the proposal for assumptions for the establishment of the Greuges Synod. The vote begins. The proposed assumptions for 2019 were approved by 84 votes in favour, 1 against and 41 abstentions. [[Decree-Law No 7/2018 of 20 November 2018 laying down transitional measures to continue to take account of the provision for the maintenance of the expenditure of the flat for certain collections governed by Article 20 of Law No 13/2006 of 27 July 2006 on social benefits of an economic nature]] [[203-00007/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, is the eighth item, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 7/2018 of 20 November, for which transitional measures are established to continue to realize the provision for the maintenance of the expenses of the street for certain collections regulated by Article 20 of Law 13/2006 of 27 July of social benefits of economic character. In accordance with Article 158.2 of the Rules, the Councillor for Work, Social Affairs and Families intervenes to set out the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. It has the word, therefore, Mr. Chakir El Homrani, Counsellor of Work, Social Afers and Families. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.217.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, who remain in the Chamber [[relays]] before the band..., look, today we come to explain why we have resolved by decree to you the update of the top of the entrances to continue to realize the performance for the maintenance of the expenses of the house for certain collections, and why we ask for validation in the Parliament of this Decree 7/2018. And before entering into the legislative arguments that led to this update of the entrance tops, I wanted to explain to them a follow-up of principles that we have and, therefore, follow. In this sense, what is clear is that this decree responds to a fact that we always want to place and that we are very clear: making people the center of policies and social interventions in this country. This means that before people lose a job for a technical reason, that they rely on the Administration, we conjure ourselves to avoid it. In this case, we come from a situation that involves the democratic anomaly that this country experienced, that generated the situation of not having assumptions in 2018 more than the increase that was given in the state pensions approved at the beginning of July of this same year. It has ended up generating a situation that is: many Catalan citizens, who live and work in Catalonia, can be left without a benefit to overcome the fixed topalls and not be able to update them via the law of assumptions. For this reason, and with the idea that the Administration must be in the service of people, even when the political normality in a country is altered by various reasons, what we intend to do is act and act in such a way that the citizens and citizens, and especially the most vulnerable, are not seen harmed. In the context of the legislative explanation, Law 13/2006 of 27 July of social benefits of economic character, one of the instruments of struggle against the poor established for this same Parliament, establishes a set of benefits and actions that they have in order to give adequate support to all people who need it and to attend to their basic needs of life. Moreover, it considers it important to establish assistance for people with very low pensions, a good part of whom are large people, and to guarantee decent economic entrances to these people in need. One of the benefits created for this law is the provision for the maintenance of expenses of the home for certain collections, for persons who cannot attend with their entrances the own expenses of the maintenance of the home, for the fact that the person with whom they share these expenses or from whom they are economically dependent has died. The approval of the Law of Presumptions of the Generalitat of Catalonia for 2018 was not possible and then what we find is that the performance is regulated from the Law of Presumptions of the Generalitat of 2017, from the additional provision 34, in which the total annual entries are limited for the maintenance of this performance. This ends up creating a contradiction with the additional provision 51.3, of the Law of General Presumptions of the State, in which it ended up increasing the 0.25 which increased to the principles of year, a 2.75 plus additional around the contributory pensions of the Social Security System. In the end we have an increase of about 3_percent of the minimum pension plans, which can end up generating that some people do not have, if they do not have, a part of the rights around this benefit or even that they may not have the right to this benefit. From here what we do is this decree law, that what we want is to avoid this problem. What he wants is to change the topalls because no one, for this increase in pensions, can be left without this help. I explain to you that this decree affects a collection of 27,999 people. So, we think it's a law decree, that we understand why we use this measure: because of urgency and need, and what's more important, it will end up securing the rights acquired from these people, that they are people in a vulnerable situation and, of which, this service of maintaining the expenses of the home ends up complementing their entrances. Basically this is the motto of this presentation and I do want to end up placing the two essential elements, which I think we all share here, which is to make people the center of all policies, and before citizens and citizens lose a job for a technical motto this government will do whatever it takes to avoid it. And this is not a very concrete example. From here we ask for the validation of this decree and to be able to avoid this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.218.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. It is now the return of the parliamentary groups to fix their position and initially has the word for a maximum of two minutes and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the City in Mr Martí Pachamé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.219.0	Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Members of the Government, today we are not here to talk about any collective, we are here to talk about our own citizens who do not arrive within the last month, people, effectively, very vulnerable. From these people the government remembers today, 12th of December; it seems that someone has lost sight of this subject. It passed almost a year after the extension of the 2017 assumptions and almost six months after the approval of the general assumptions of the State. You are talking about 'undesirable effects'; we are talking about 'predictable effects, lack of competence and solidarity with the most needy. The Government has brought to this chamber the Decree Illi 7/2018, of 20 November, for its validation, effectively. This draft law deals with restitution to a collection specially punished for the crisis of benefits for the maintenance of the expenses of the home. The same description of who was directed the performance gives us an idea of the importance of the problem, do not keep up with the respect. Thus, we are speaking on the one hand of the population especially sensitive and with little, but null, economic capacity. How do we talk about this theme in the month of disembarkation? Is it that no one had ever thought about this situation before? Has any action been taken with the beneficiaries affected to explain the problem and how it would be solved? Did something happen? Is it that no one took into account when the extension of the assumptions for 2017 to 2018 was made, since the thirty-four additional provision was not updated? Is it that no one took into account the needs of one part of the population while the money of everyone in the party's processions was being squandered? For your information – I have reminded you that with so much hiring of possibly equal staff no longer carry the account – the Generality's website says that there are 58 high and possibly Presidency staff covering almost €4,5_million; 48 high and possibly Vice-President staff covering around €3,700,000; 24 high and possibly Treball, Social Affairs and Families covering around €2_million. We are, therefore, talking about one hundred and thirty high charges and possible staff of the three councils more directly involved than more or less cover, among all of them, 10_million euros. The average is going to come out for 80,000 euros, more or less, even though many of them are paying more than 100,000. Did any of these other guys ever think about this problem? So, what's the point of all these positions and advisors? In addition to not predicting it when it was playing, therefore, when the prorogation of assumptions was made, the deviation of 0.25_per_cent, the limit was already set at eight euros from the topall of 9.500_euros, nor was it possible when the Spanish Government approved the general assumptions of the State for 2018 increasing the additional 2.75_per_cent. The undesirable effects of these persons affect, according to their own sources, 15,590 beneficiaries of the collection of recipients of the benefit for the maintenance of the expenses of the home and 12,499 of the preceptors for the help of the surviving spouses. The reductions they have suffered in their performance during this period are a 44 and a 34_per_cent respectively. If we quantify it, we're talking about 5 million euros. It would seem to be..., as if it were free financing, but fine. What were all these other charges doing instead of meeting the needs of the collectivities in a more precarious situation? Do they have any other priorities? Don't you think that with these subs you would have to demand many more responsibilities, much more efficiency? This seems to have no other name than lack of competence and solidarity. And, therefore, we ask that the corresponding responsibilities be cleared, and we ask them not only for political questions, which we could also do, but also for reasons of ethical responsibility. What you have is what is called an agency problem, and it is a problem arising from the lack of governance in the Generality. The problems of agency are present when there is a difference between the objectives of the Government, of the organizations and the members who form part of it, in this case, the citizenry, the people of Catalonia, eh? All of us. You have the task of the Catalan citizenry to effectively administer the Government of the Generality and that there are no such situations as we are debating at this point. You have shown that you do not have the same objectives as the vast majority of Catalan citizens. You have different objectives and, moreover, completely extended from reality and from your competitions. You have huge resources and skills, skills to properly manage a budget around EUR 34,000_million. But they are not capable of properly focusing and prioritizing the real problems of citizenship. And who's to blame for all this? Madrid? The king? 155? The European Union? The Galactic Empire? What you know how to do very well is to give up your responsibilities and never make any self-criticism. As has been shown in recent statements, you have taken responsibility not for making decisions, but for applying them. In the real world, that's why we'd say a toxin style. You are a government that is toxic to Catalans. Where do you want to take us? Mr. Torra explained the other day that he was told to his partner, while he had her reunited in Madrid, President Sánchez, who was fifty-five years old, that "my children are very great and I have nothing to lose, that 90_percent of the meeting spoke of self-determination. "That's the subject, and I can't entertain others. Is that what happened to this law? That there were other more important issues? The monotheme? Another time, as Mr. Eduard Pujol said, these questions are crumbs, wreaths, peanuts? The next thing I know, it's the TV3 drill. I must remind you that the first measure you took was to inject 20 million euros. That's why there was a rush, that's why and to open embassies, to reposition advisors to say all over the place, to open a rule of "singlinguites for their proselytes. But to think with people who have difficulty paying for the light, gas or water, for those there is no hurry, there is no hurry, there is always time and more can wait. You just worry about your differences, the problems you make up, and you grow and grow and grow. They are always dedicated to being part of the problem and never part of the solution, because their interest is that there is always bad luck. It has been said before that they are a government that is toxinous to the citizenry, a lot of the real problems of the people. In the plenary session of 22 November, a motion was adopted for Ciutadans, in which it was asked in its second point: "To review the resolutions on denial of guaranteed citizenship income, to draw up a report with information on possible unjustified denials and to compensate for the loss of rights with the establishment of a timetable of measures to resolve cases that have not been detected. Has anything been done with respect? Should we also expect someone from your government to remember them? And respect for what was required by the seven-year additional provision of the Law 14/2017 on the preparation of reports on the application and effectiveness of guaranteed citizenship income during the first twelve months of the Law, had to be done before Cap d'Any. Do they have him ready yet? By the way, speaking of systemic oblivions, how do they deal with the issue of underutilization of the energy poverty fund? Will it go back to the way it always goes? You don't face the real problems of people, for you these problems are incredulous respect for the great project. All the rest has no sense of importance. You don't fan social politics, fan social marketing. You have a league of other people and advisors all dedicated to good things, and you don't do that for which the citizen pays them, and you pay them very, very well. You live in a parallel world and people suffer its consequences in this world, in the real world. Gentlemen of the Government, they do that for which they have been elected, rule and work for this autonomous community, and stop flying pigeons. We will approve this decree, but we also say that the delay in its approval is the result of actions such as negligence, and of which we hope that the necessary steps will be taken to clear up responsibilities. And remind them that in the real world there are people who can't wait two days or six months or much less a year, not like others who still have the courage to go public. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.220.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it's the turn, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mr Raúl Moreno's deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.221.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Councillor Chakir El Homrani, Members, Members, the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Forward Units will vote in favour of this decree presented today by the Government in this Parliament. And before I enter a little content, which I will try to explain to make him understand, I would also like to make a petition to the councillor, in this case, as other government companies do, it would be good if before the approval of a decree of these characteristics, therefore, the department gathers the spokespersons, the deputies, gathers the political forces to make an explanation of their content. This may be more or less easy to hear, but if other decrees come, which we hope will come, it would be good, therefore, to have this deference, I insist, as other companions of your government. That said, this is a decree that goes, somehow, donated for a positive action, which is the retirement. Pensioners in our country have seen their pensions pushed forward and, therefore, this fact has caused some benefits to which they were entitled, so they came to the top and could not collect them, right? And the government wants to keep the benefit to the blind people who will depend on the receipts of the person who has died to keep their home. What's the situation before approval, if it's approved, I think it is, these people. So up to now people– mostly large and empty women–, with an income of less than seven hundred_four– seven hundred_four– euros per month rebien, if they had this benefit, a benefit of forty-five_ euros per month for the maintenance of the lar. Those who enter between seven-cents_five_euros and seven-cents_forty-eight_euros per month shall, if they have this benefit, be less than, in any case, less than six_euros. And those who entered more than seven hundred and forty-nine euros a month didn't get it back, they didn't get that job right. As explained in the decree, the increase of the minimum contributory pensions a 3_percent of the Law of General Presumptions of the State for the year 2018_has placed the widowhood pension for those persons who are older than sixty-five years in 655,9_euros per month. Here we have to say that there are higher widowhood pensions, lower depending on whether they have family responsibilities, whether they are more than or less than sixty years old, etc. But the fact is that this increase, together with the non-approval of new assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for the year 2018 and, therefore, with the extension, as we say before, of the assumptions of the year 2017 did not allow the modification of the entrance limit to access this performance. And, therefore, those people, as we say, who have seen increased their thinking could lose their performance if they exceeded the limits set for law to repress it. So, the decree that we'll validate today establishes that they will continue to receive this benefit that they had right during this year 2018 those people with lower than eight-cents_11 euros per month. Therefore, we move from EUR 7000 to EUR 8000 per month, those covering less than this amount may have a benefit of EUR 45000 per month and at the lowest of the cases, when they are closer to EUR 8000 per month, a minimum of EUR 6000 per month. Therefore, the Government is right to present this decree in order to secure this right and, therefore, our parliamentary group will support it. Now, from the reading of this decree there are some considerations that I would like to share with you, ladies and gentlemen. This decree will only be valid until the approval of the assumptions, is logical, for another band, but does not guarantee that the assumptions include more than the increment of the 3_per_cent of the year 2018, the 1,6_per_cent that is expected to increase the contributory pensions by the year 2019. And I want to understand that it will be that way, that they would look at the assumptions, but in any case, I wanted to make it clear. Enguany increases the limit to make those people who get the benefit realize it. Now, the decree also states that I kept the limit of total annual admissions we had for the assumption of the year 2017. Therefore, this freezing means that there will be no more people who can benefit from this benefit than they already have, among other things because it would be better to allocate more resources than the Government, for which it seems, will not. How much money are we talking about? How much does this benefit cost? At present, EUR 8.3 million is earmarked for this service, of which the Government has spent eight. So, about three hundred thousand euros. And from our parliamentary group we believe that closing the door that nine people can benefit from this service, while not spending all the money destined for the departure, clearly marks a willingness on the part of the Government not to bet, in this case, on this type of social benefits as a mechanism to ensure that the number of people is kept as high as possible. They will agree with me, I hope, that forty-five euros a month as much as possible for the maintenance of the home is ridiculous; that it is the same amount of money that we spent on it eight years ago. And, by the way, these forty-five euros, when you ask a person, "What are you wearing out at home? , the vast majority of people, think: "So to pay for the light, the water, the gas... So no– no–, these forty-five euros are not to pay for the sub-administrations. In fact, some requirements for the benefit are to have all the sub-administrations paid, keep them up to date, to persons who enter less than 748 euros per month. That is to say, a blind person, in order to access forty-five euros a month, must be blind, show that he does not have enough tickets to keep his home and, above all, he must keep up to date the payment of basic sub-administrations. This service can only be requested by a person from the family nucleus. It's one of the other conditions, don't let us get to a certain shame, forty-five euros a month! This service is, as we have said, 8 million euros a year. For other times, for some historians, there have been a lot more millions of euros than for this type of performance. If forty-five euros is a little bit, imagine what a six-euro benefit means, that it is those that cover those who arrive at the bogery, this year, to charge 811 euros per month. It's nothing. In fact, it costs more the administrative process than the import of the performance. I honestly sound ridiculous. We welcome the Government's decision to maintain this right to make the benefit compatible with the retirement pension, but it will be necessary to review the limits above to access this benefit if we do not want this benefit to be clearly insignificant in a year's time or two years' time. They have the option in their own assumptions to significantly increase the 540_€ annual benefit, which is this benefit, more taking into account than the money in the game. We cannot demand from people the efforts of coercion that the government does not do from the execution of the social presupposition parties. Therefore, we propose that if they really want to increase the number of people who can join social services, that if they want to give more coverage to people at risk of social exclusion, they do so by increasing the income index of Catalonia, which carries frozen from the entrance of the governments of the Drets, with the invaluable collaboration of Esquerra Republicana. Eight years of fierce crisis, and no change in Catalonia's sufficiency income index. And I take this opportunity to recall one of the many incomplete promises of this government inherited from previous governments: where is the map of social benefits? , the rationalization of our performance system to make it more agile, more efficient and more known? Honestly, do we consider that the Catalan administration has to have benefits of six euros? Are you effective? Honestly, do you think that six euros are enough to change the living conditions of any person? I think we should set up the system in a global way, even though I understand that they don't, given the constant interweaving to which we are accustomed. Therefore, I believe that before this change and this benefit, which we will approve – because it would only be necessary for us to be able to bring these forty-five euros a month to these blind people – I believe that it would be necessary to give a general reflection of what we are doing with the 177 different services that exist in Catalonia, each with its requirements, with its own conditions, with its departments, with its own windows, with its full capacity to fulfil. Perhaps it would be better to make a much more global reflection than sis_euros, to make a performance, a management of sis_euros per month..., worth the hours, the time of the one who manages it, than, finally, the benefit that the person who answers it can derive from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.222.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.223.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Counselor, before I enter the matter and speak specifically about the decree, I would like to make a series of reflections on the policies of great people in Catalonia. I believe that today you, like me, will feel ashamed seeing the President of the Generality giving himself to the pit remembering the data of economic growth in Catalonia, because if there is anything that has not changed to Catalonia, Spain and the rest of the countries of southern Europe, it is that, if economic growth is based on wage devaluations, fiscal austerity and retail public services, it does not translate into an increase in the welfare of the city council. And in fact, despite the economic growth that allows the president to give himself to the pit, the risk of poverty has increased among the great people of our country, from 12,4_per_cent the year 2013 to 15,5 enguany, a push of three points, especially dramatic in the case of major women of sixty-five years, which is already located in 19_per_cent: one_of_five major women of sixty-five years in this country is at risk of poverty. And here I think we need to be very clear: retail policies make it impossible for economic growth to be translated into an increase in the welfare of the city of Catalonia. And the policies on the quality of life of the great people are a key element in assessing the state of health of our welfare state and are a key element in assessing the intergenerational pact in our country, for which the people who work together under dignity to secure the pensions and public services of our parents and seas and our opinions. And now what we have to say to Catalonia is that the policies of austerity and labour devaluation have broken the welfare state in our country, and they have only broken the intergenerational pact, but they have reversed it: today one_of_four years in Catalonia depends on retirement pensions from some of their opinions to support the family economy, and today one_of_three years in Catalonia depends on the recovery of some benefit, still from retirement, whether from widowhood or still from disability, in order to cope with the expenses of the world. The compromise with the quality of life of the great people of this country is not demonstrated by rhetoric; it is demonstrated by the compromise in defending the state of welfare and equality policies. And it is in this sense that we measure and assess the government's commitment to defending the quality of life of the great people. I want to speak today, for example, of a fundamental element for the quality of life of the great people, which is public sanitation. We have seen this week as the doctors and midwives of Catalonia saw the consequences that health care retailers have had as much in their working conditions as in the public health of the city council; a 16_percent of health care retailers in the Health Department, which seven years later we haven't recovered. And, if we're talking about the quality of life of the great people, I want to highlight today especially the 20_percent of retails in primary care, which I think we agree is a key element for public salvation in Catalonia, and especially of the great people of our country. Because the result of these policies is the healthcare neglect of the great people in Catalonia and that Catalonia today is the community of the Spanish State with the most patients on the waiting list for surgery or the second community in Spain in days of waiting on the list for any consultation or healthcare; two shame pods that would have to take the colors to the government and not encourage them to give themselves to the pit with growing dates. A_second element, probably, is the policies of dependence on Catalonia. One_of_each_three people in Spain who are on the waiting list of dependence are Catalans. Catalonia leads, in another podiatrist of shame, people who, despite having recognized their right to an allowance of dependence, do not cover it. It is certain that the abandonment of the State in the matter of financing dependence has been miserable and shameful; and I remember that the assumption agreement between United Podemos and the Socialist Party incorporates an increment of 40_per_cent. But it is not less certain that the model of co-sponsorship in Catalonia makes families today support 23_percent of the financing of dependency and that the Generality's inaction has left thousands of citizens, from large people to Catalonia who today deserve to receive a dependency benefit and not to collect it. Again, the government's policies are unable to translate economic growth into welfare for the citizens. Or guaranteed income: forty-thousand secured guaranteed income shippers in a calaix, which would probably cover much more effectively than the updating of decrees the complementarity of non-contributory pensions, widow's pensions and pensions under the care of the poor; a guaranteed income that would allow us not to hear pension supplements as a question of benevolence, but as a question of universal rights, and not of retail management policy. These three elements, public health, the law of dependency and guaranteed income, together with pensions, are probably the three pillars that help us to hear the quality and salvation of our welfare state. But there are other elements that I think are key and that today I would like to put in store. It is a national shame that there are 23,000 notices and waiting lists to access a residence in Catalonia. And it's a national shame that it's retailing 43_million euros in this situation, from the premise of residences, to infusing the public offer and forcing them to choose between waiting four years on waiting lists or drawing them to primary attention. And it is a national shame that in this situation the premise to build new opinion residencies in Catalonia is zero euros, calling on families to gather to reside with a price of two thousand euros a month. We remain brave and honest, and we demand that all members of the government stop giving shots to the pit with macroeconomic data and come to translate them into an increase in the welfare of the citizenry. Because the problem of austerity is that it does not allow us to assume any of the great folds of country that we have with the great people. The possibilities of shame, in sanitation, in dependence, in guaranteed income and in residences, directly lead us to the disempowerment of the great people of this country and do not allow us to discuss, for example, the problem of loneliness between the opinions and those in Catalonia. Today 300,000 notices and avies are found in a situation of loneliness, and we have no instruments, neither presuppositions nor administrations, to hold the strength enough to intervene. We cannot accept that there is a president of the Generalitat who is given shots to the pit and who does not return and is put to work in a situation of unemployment of the great people of our country. The people who, moreover, have followed an example of freedom, dignity, in the conquest of rights and freedoms and in raising a country from visible work, and also from invisible work, from cures and reproduction. I need to listen to the great people of this country and give them security and security in the face of a future that brings them to desperation. And the fact is that today we come simply to discuss transposing an administratively simple decision, which is that the increase in non-contributory pensions does not mean that additional aid is lost for the maintenance of the expenses of the home. But it is that the law accompanying the general assumptions of the State was approved on July 3, and we are 12 December and until today the decree has not appeared. They arrive late, and the price of coming late is to generate insecurity in the great people, in our opinions and in our lives. We agree with the decree: to ensure that no one will be able to help them to maintain the home because they have increased non-contributory pensions and, above all, that it is compensable to ensure that they will continue to receive it despite the disempowerment generated during the months by the Government of the Generality. To govern Catalonia cannot only occupy a chair and cannot only be a battle of events within a week, nor can it be a fratricidal battle between the two groups of government. To govern Catalonia is to give certainty and face up to the need to rebuild the well-being of Catalonia before the demise of the State and the demise of precariousness and poverty. We wanted to have voted on this decree in September, "if you hurry me, as the immediate correction, as the update, and not as the correction of a situation of unemployment. This week's end – and with this I'm done, Mr President – will be back on the streets of the Sea of Dignity of our opinions and retirees in Catalonia. Besides asking the government of the generality that for one day it is no longer happening and listening to the great people of this country. They deserve it and they deserve it Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.224.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.225.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.226.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the Deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.227.0	Good afternoon, everyone. Some recognitions and some criticisms. First, recognition: that there has been a conjugation of the budgetary extension to Catalonia and an increase of the minimum amounts of contributory pensions of 2.75_per_cent with the addition of 0.25_per_cent, is not a common situation. We could talk, after all, about a certain exceptionality. Therefore, it is necessary that it does not affect the topalls of the performance for the maintenance of the expenses of the lar. We wanted to make this first consideration. The inaction, which could also have given, perfectly, would have caused there to have been an extinction of performances, for one band, and, for another band, let us reduce, in those and those in our country that surely have a situation of more weakened from an economic point of view. We should remember and insist on what this service means: they are from six to forty-five euros a month for those people who do not exceed the threshold of 8,985,79 euros. So that's what we're talking about. That is also why this sub-group will make an affirmative vote for the validation of the law decree, but making a vote for it does not mean that we are not critical of a very specific issue of the law decree, nor are we critical of the same performance as it has been regulated so far, even though it is not subject to this law decree. First of all, the agreement could have gone much further than resolving a situation for now and, therefore, consolidated, and never again discussed it under the following assumptions. It didn't happen. According to the question, and that for us is much more important: what this performance means and what we want to translate into position and in a constructive way when we plan to make a great deal of performance and it's maybe even going to discuss the set of performance that we have recognized today as our own competence. For example, that this service is not only recognized to spouses or family members up to the second degree, it also has a reality for which economic dependence or which is the economic pillar in a family unit went much further than the second degree. But, finally, in the country we already have new realities of coexistence that go beyond the traditional family or family, and therefore this service should begin to resolve these new realities. According to the question: that the service can only be perceived by a person per domicile, per llar. What it can mean is to give it the same consideration as it remains, that it can be a person like that it can be seven people. And when we're obviously talking about benefits that go from six to forty-five euros, which means more than the fact that we add more people to the same home, we think that we should solve with the elimination of this element, of this criterion that allows it, solely and exclusively, for a person. The third question is that the benefit is denied to any person who does not have his or her administrative situation regularized. We are obviously talking about the residence permit. There is no answer to us that, obviously, from a legality criteria, no performance can be recognized. For us, it's just a matter of political choice. And, therefore, we will continue to denounce, day after day, that there is first of all who is deprived of certain rights, such as the right of residence and, then, obviously, who is outside of certain benefits. And the last of the questions, obviously, the one that makes reference to the amount. We are talking about six to forty-five euros, and we think that, obviously, they can push, increase, the amounts, which are absolutely insufficient. For the sake of closure, so much good we do not have a discussion about the poor in our own months and years, but what seems to be the permanent discussion in our society, because the poor have it chronicled. So much so that we have a discussion where centrality does not have it in how we generate new benefits to give response to the poor, but that we can have it in how we generate rights, new realities, because we are not poor or because the poor is a minimal expression.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.228.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.229.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies, three things in relation to this decree. One, the object. It was reiterated on the part of the councillor and on the part of the rest of the spokespersons in relation to the fact that, in fact, the increase of the minimum pensions of a 3_per_cent on the part of the Government of the State has caused that there is, therefore, a whole bunch of people who have exceeded the threshold, the topall, for which they have recognized this social benefit as an economic character, which is what is known as a supplementary pension. And, therefore, what this decree does is somehow correct this situation and say, "I'm escorting, so, even though pensions have increased, we keep these pension complements. And, therefore, I believe that the object itself of the law decree is this, this is the purpose it pursues and, therefore, they will have our favorable vote in the decree. Now, it will allow me to add two, if they want, anecdotes, or if they want elements that I think are around this very same decree, right? First of all, he predicted you were a fan, didn't he? And that's what we see in two aspects of your decree. A first, in the evolution of the law decree, from the first texts to the end, in the first texts appeared the figures of the topalls. In the end, they chose to suppress the topalls. And the second element, which I think is what gives what is the authentic intention of the disappearance of the topalls' figures, is the text until the entry into force of the next law of assumptions. Go on, I think the government is already healing with salutation, in case they haven't presupposed for the year 2019, that at least these people, if there is another increase in pensions again, do not lose the right to receive this benefit. I think it's the subliminal message in this law. But it will allow me to have a second reflection. The counselor, in his intervention, said to us: "Priority, people – priority, people; priority, people. Counselor, I am convinced that people are the priority for you. But I have doubts as to whether, in reality, the government's priority is also people. And, look, I'm just going to give you an example, and I'm not going to talk to you about the process or talk to you about these things. I'll just give them an example. Miri, I just knew that this middle, it's been a while, we approved another decree of the government law, which had been necessary, too, because there was a royal decree of the government of the state that modified the passive subject of the tax of documented legal acts. Do you know how long his government has been trying to issue the law not to lose tickets, that is to say, to recover 16_million admissions? Do you know how long it's been since the government of the state approves the royal decree until the government of the generality approves the decree to get that money? Five days – five days. Do you know how long the government has been cheating since the 3_per_cent pension increases until they issue this decree because all these people, this 28,000 people, do not lose this benefit, have guaranteed it for you? One hundred and forty days. That's the difference. The priority, I'm sure, is the people; the government's, no. And this one I think is the most obvious example. When it's about the dough, we run it all; but when it's about the people, a hundred and forty days of uncertainty for all these people, whether or not they should make those money that they were realizing. And, fortunately, with the decree, this uncertainty is resolved, and it is further guaranteed that they will not lose a single performance of this year, because it could have been the perfect example, but the decree perfectly foresees that they will not lose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.230.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.231.0	Thank you very much, President. We are debating this process of a necessary decree. He has already stayed here in the chamber precisely because of the support of the parliamentary groups. From the outset, it may seem that it is the processing of a decree that is a simple bureaucratic process, but the question that we are dealing with today is much more important. In fact, this Decree Law 7/2018, of 20 November, for which transitional measures are established to continue to realize this benefit for the maintenance of the expenses of the house for certain collections, which regulates article 20 of the Law 13/2006, of 27 July, of social benefits of economic character, this question, the processing of this decree, is a real exercise to continue to guarantee social justice to our country and to avoid the loss of a right acquired by the people who perceive, that until now they perceive and that they continue to perceive it, this social benefit occupied by them. Therefore, from the outset, I give thanks, we give thanks to the Government, and in particular to the Councillor for Social Affairs and Families, for this decree, for this process. A decree, of course, which was approved by the Government on 20 November and which began to be dealt with in August, immediately, once knew the extent of pensions, the increase in pensions, and, therefore, saw this impact that could have had on persons receiving this benefit. So, it's been a while since the government immediately started working there, and today, so let's give the compliment so that this can be a reality. I also announce, as is evident, the favourable vote of our formation on parliamentary validation, because doing so is an action of institutional responsibility and also of guarantee of equal opportunities. As the Honourable Councillor El Homrani has already explained, it is a fact that people do not suffer from collateral decisions that could affect their acquired rights. Allow me to enter a moment, and briefly, into the content of the decree and also into the justification that led to it being processed and also in this way. All part of the Law 13/2006, of social benefits of economic character, that establishes a set of benefits and actions that they have in order to give adequate support to all people who need it, and also attend to those basic necessities of life of many of the people who require it. It is, therefore, a tool, this law, the Law of social benefits of economic character, a tool of struggle against the poor and with special attention to vulnerable collectivities, as is, for example, the law of the great people. One of these benefits that includes this law is that of maintaining expenses of the school for certain collections, addressed to people who cannot attend with their entrances the own expenses of maintaining the usual school. This is the performance, this is the right that will now be guaranteed thanks to the validation of this decree that the government approved a few days ago. What happened, then? It has already been explained, but I would also like to reiterate it. What happened, then, why do we have to make this decree to continue to guarantee this performance? Just these two circumstances that have been commented upon, extraordinary circumstances that have shared, say, time. On the one hand, the extraordinary increase in pensions with retroactive effects to the principles of a year; a positive question, obviously – a positive question – the fact that the minimum amounts of social security system contributory pensions are increasing this year 2018. Now, that, this positive decision, this increase, what I could assume is that the recipients of the benefit that we are talking about today are exceeding the threshold and losing it in case this is not correct. The other circumstance, which was also given in this last year, is the presuppositional prorogation of the Government of Catalonia for the year 2018; a prorogation, for sure, which was given to us with the application of 155 and with the call for elections of 21 December of last year. This fact caused that it was not possible to update on the basis of the increase in pensions the limit of the total annual income limit for the maintenance of the service of the expenses of the school to those that were not perceptors. These two joint circumstances, which have coincided, if no decision is taken, have a negative impact and may come to have a negative impact, so that they can leave without performance various people, until they have passed this topall established until now. Therefore, what the Government of the Generality does through this decree, and as it says and establishes the same decree in its first article, is to ensure that the persons who, as a result of the increase in pensions, have seen the right to pay for the maintenance of the expenses of the school, as a result of the overcoming of this top of the entrances, continue to perceive it; they continue to perceive this performance until the entry into force of the law itself. Having said that, we also share the need to do so immediately, as quickly as possible and therefore without waiting for other ordinary legislative procedures. And, therefore, we find the option of doing it through a law decree uncertain, as we are doing at these times. I'm done. The government rules. The government does what it does to govern, and make the decisions that it has to make for the city council, for the country council, for all people in Catalonia. And he remembers every day, people. [[It feels like a soroll.]] All right? Yeah? All right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.232.0	Nothing's happened– nothing's happened. Congresswoman, go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.233.0	Okay. It's just that from here I don't see it and I didn't know if anyone had fallen. I'll be right back. The government rules, and they make the decisions they have to make. He remembers every day, people. Before we were told by the deputy of Ciutadans who didn't remember, of the people. No, no, The government governs, governs every day, for the people, for the citizenry and meet the needs that the citizenry of this country requires. Proof of this is this debate that we are doing today, that it is precisely passing a decree that does what it does is to guarantee these rights, to work for social justice and for the dignity of the people of our country. This is the work that the government is doing and what it will do, and what we want it to do, unlike the citizens' deputies, we have already seen that they take advantage of any debate to make a fuss and to sweep up a lot of things and, yes, to talk about the monotheme as well. And no, there was no negligence; in any case in the processing of this decree there was no negligence. And what is there is a positive action by the government to guarantee rights, to guarantee social justice and to work for people. Now, I finish as I begin, thanking the government for the processing of the decree, with retroactive effects, with effects that will not cause anyone to lose this service that it has until now. And it is obvious that yes, that we can continue, that we can continue to improve, that we can continue to debate the model, that we are very ugly at doing, to care for vulnerable people, and that, therefore, this is also the commitment of the Government and the commitment of the parliamentary groups that we support the Government. But I am grateful, therefore, for the handling of this decree, for the fact that this validation can be approved today to continue working, putting people at the centre and consolidating rights, to consolidate benefits, and to guarantee the dignity of the most vulnerable people, because it is the way to combat inequalities and to guarantee equal opportunities for everyone, which is what we want for the citizenship of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.234.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Congresswoman Saloua Laouaji.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.235.0	Thank you very much, President. Gentlemen, congressmen, councillors, counselors, workers and guests, good afternoon. As stated by Decree Llei 7/2012, which we now have to validate, Law 13/2006 of 27 July, of social benefits of economic character, formulates a set of benefits that they have in order to give support to people who need help to meet the basic needs of life. Among other things, it provides assistance for people with very low pensions, a good part of whom are great people. With reference to large people, we cannot allow them to viscose in a situation of constant impoverishment and vulnerability. It has been reported on numerous occasions from this Faristol that the poor are chronizing among the most vulnerable collectivities, and it is clear that it deeply affects the infants, the women, the people migrated, but also the great people. We must not lose sight of the fact that years of crisis have destroyed many places of work and that many social entities have disappeared. The recession, or better yet, the recessions have hit the citizenry hard, turning many people into more vulnerable, and generated a feeling of social depression and indignation. Many great people have been contributing with their entrances to the savings of their children; great people who had so far endured, but their situation worsens. The most recent data warn of a situation of increasing the taxes of poverty among the great people. I'm sure we all know situations in which many great people are found, situations of loneliness and low pensions that do not allow them to have a decent life; situations and facts that deserve our full attention, all our consideration and all our will to resolve them. In 2016, nearly 1.4 million people were in Catalonia for sixty-five years; of these, a 16_per_cent is at risk of poverty or social exclusion, according to data from the Idescat. It is worth highlighting a phenomenon that is so well known that can fight with force: the feminization of the poor in the great people, since new to each of the great people are women. Women receive lower pensions to devote themselves to cures, to count on shorter, intermittent work paths and lower wages. The injustice of the poor requires a practical and powerful response in order to eliminate its causes and the impact on people's lives. And to fight against exclusion and social inequality, all people must feel that they can change and improve. Returning to the issue of the decree, one of the services created by the Law 13/2006 of 27 July, is the provision for the maintenance of expenses of the house for certain collections which are as intended by persons who cannot attend with their entrances the own expenses of the maintenance of the house, for the fact that the spouse or family member has died until the second degree of consanguinity or affinity with those who share these expenses, from which it is economically dependent. The monthly amount of this benefit, as well as the maximum limit of admissions to be eligible, is established annually for the Law of Presumables of the Government of Catalonia. This year, the approval of the Law of Presumptions for fiscal year 2018 was not possible and the Law of Presumptions was extended for 2017. And it wasn't possible for the event that we all named and denounced on many occasions because that's not why they lose their transcendence. We are talking about the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. An unjust and arbitrary application, unconstitutional, illegal, despite some defending the contrary, unfortunately. And, in fact, it is an attack on human dignity, on the Catalan people: men, women, small and large. Application that is the consequence of the inability of the State to deal with a political problem with politics, democracy, human rights and freedom of expression, demanding respect for the will of peaceful people and to do so with courts; courts and justice of parties–justice of parties– and with the Criminal Code. As a result, and not by our will, the amounts, the entry limits to be able to access the services have not been updated and an injustice has occurred. The Law of General Presumptions of the State for 2018, even though it was finally approved on July 3rd, established an increment of the minimum amounts of the contributory pensions from an additional 2.75_per_cent to 0.25_per_cent, an increase experienced for these benefits the generation of this year 2018. In total, we are talking about a 3_per_cent. This extraordinary increase, between comets, repeatedly claimed and necessary, of the pensions of the Social Security System, added to the non-updating of the amounts established to the Catalan Law of Presuppositions, of course, for some of the people who perceived the benefit for the maintenance of the expenses of the home, the reduction of the import of this benefit or even all the suppression of the same, therefore, in order to overcome for a long time the limit of the entrances established to the Law of Presuppositions of the Government of Catalonia of 2017. Therefore, what this decree will do is resolve this misadjustment. The imbalance that has occurred for the increase – welcome, necessary and positive – included in the PGE for 2018, in the presuppositional prorogation of the Government of Catalonia of 2017, which did not foresee the increase, thus avoiding that there are situations of injustice, situations of loss of acquired rights. The government claims, with the decree, to ensure that all those who would benefit from this help can continue to feel if the circumstances in which they are found unfortunately are practically the same. This decree is a technical change of the tops of the entrances because the person in vulnerability is left without a recap. We believe that it is urgent to prioritize social policies that offer children and their families real opportunities, and also social policies that guarantee great people a dignified life, and everyone, to all citizens. To answer and answer how they deserve all and each of their diversity names, various needs and do so. We do it all the time. The government would rule better if it kept the tools, the adient tools. And we are ahead of the fact that it is essential to satisfy a social need of the highest order with speed. This need cannot be dealt with in the ordinary legislative procedure. That is why the validation of this decree is proposed. And since today's issue is a subject of social justice and human dignity, I would like to express my solidarity with my colleagues, even though they do not agree with my political prisoners who are in prison because of a situation of injustice and who have found themselves obliged to take a vow of fame with great dignity and courage, in order to claim with respect to the Constitutional Court their rights that are arbitrarily violated. And, as Mandela said, "to deprive people of their human rights is to put their own humanity on trial. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.236.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] We'll proceed to... [[Widow's remorse.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, to comment that there is a petition tomorrow to change the order of the inquiries, and the proposal would be that the 16th inquiry after the 19th. If there is no inconvenience, we will pass 16 after which is now Question 19. They match tomorrow morning's schedule. If there's no problem, we'll make this change, okay? [[Pause.]] All right. Let us now proceed to the vote on this decree. According to Rule 158.3, as you know, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and that the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the validation of the law decree. The vote begins. Decree Law 7/2018_has been validated by 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Also in accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules, and once this decree has been validated, I must ask the chamber whether any parliamentary group wants this decree to be passed as the draft law. Isn't there a group you're asking for? [[Pause.]] All right. So it's finally validated this Decree Illi 7/2018. [[Proposed law amending Law 18/2017, August 1, trade, services and wires (debate of totality)]] [[202-00011/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the new one, which is the totality debate on the proposed law amending Law 18/2017, August 1, trade, services and wires. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, she presented the initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs. Yolanda López. [[Widow's remorse.]] They ask, please, that if they have to abandon the hemicicle they do it quickly and quietly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.237.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... first of all, apologize, I'm very attached, and if you don't understand me very well... but, well, I'll try. Around 450,000 people in Catalonia, mostly women, are sentenced to working hours that skip all kinds of contemplations to family, personal and work reconciliation. These people are being deprived mostly of their right to conciliation; they are the ones that day by day are behind the counters, on the cash lines or replacing the articles of shelves of most shops in Catalonia. In labor sectors such as trade, where hours are extensive, there is a predominance of shiftwork, weekend work, shift rotations – which we will have to talk about the other day – and so on, conciliation becomes impossible in most cases; a situation that also has an impact on the worsening of the gender gap and the increase in the vulnerability of women in the world of work, in addition to female impoverishment. "We need time to share, to participate socially in everything that makes us grow as a person. I do not say this, they are not my words: these words, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, are from Carles Puigdemont, words that I wrote in the document he made of the Pact for Hourly Reform, objective 2025. However, it seems that you still, in this legislature, have not had much time to devote to this. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we are late, but that very late, and every day you extend actions on this issue; it is one day less for the reconciliation of workers, it is one day more when women have to give up work, family reconciliation, to have their own time for them, it is one day more without measures for the co-responsibility of tasks between men and women. It cannot be possible for us to go to the end of 2018 and the only action in this area by this Government has been the process for the creation of the office for the hourly reform, that is, that one year after the creation of the document and commitment on the hourly reform you only have pure procedures and little more. Gentlemen of the Government, it is time for you to start working, for you to start governing, for you to start taking action on the matter, for you to start implementing the actions set out in the Pact for Hourly Reform, for you to put in place measures that will make us move forward so that we can meet the objectives set for 2025. If not, it will remain, as in other laws, everything on wet paper. We do not want a Catalonia in line with Europe, we want a Catalonia as an example for Europe. That is why it is time to start dealing with the issue of working time, from a respectful perspective of care and co-responsibility, and not as an instrument for increasing business flexibility, as it is now. It is time to work to develop consumption and commercial supply habits that you look for. It is time to establish a new culture of the times, more efficient, more responsible, respectful and sensitive to trade workers, which will help to improve the reconciliation of personal and working life. Let us not forget that behind the counter there are people who have the right to return to their homes early, on a reasonable schedule, have the right to have work, family and time of their own. We must ensure the disconnection of work and, ultimately, the reconciliation and co-responsibility of personal, family life, as well as real and effective equality between men and women. And on the other hand, and no less important, we need to protect the small business, which, in the face of the rise of excessive rents, if not indecent, and liberalized timetables, causes these small businesses to suffer unfair and excessive competition, impossible to assume, and tend to disappear, as is already happening. And we can't allow this either. Small business is one of the essences of Catalan territory; there are many families who live on it, families who also need to have decent working hours, which allow them to reconcile and continue to maintain their business. In the last legislature, just a year ago, a small improvement was achieved for the working conditions of trade workers, which was in line with the Equality Act and the National Pact for Hourly Reform, in order to move forward on more rational timetables and to improve the reconciliation of the working and staff lives of trade workers. During these months, we have been able to see how this schedule application has had no negative effect on trade, neither in relation to sales nor in relation to occupation, rather quite the opposite. We have been able to see how consumers have adapted perfectly to these timetables, which have benefited, in particular, small trade and people working in this economic sector. That is why my group, the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem, today brings the voice of trade workers to this plenary session. And I say the voice of workers, because they have joined together and collected more than eleven_ thousand signatures among them to demand a business schedule that favors work reconciliation throughout the year, and not just for eight months, as it is currently regulated, because improvements in schedules cannot be partial; the improvement of schedules must be gradual, but complete. Therefore today we ask before this Chamber the amendment of the Law 18/2017, of 1 August, of trade, services and fairs, so that we take a step further in the progress of the family reconciliation, to get Catalan citizenship and, in particular, the workers of the trade sector enjoy a more rational and healthy timetable, matching Catalonia to the European indicators – and I have to drink water again, because I have... [[Pause.]] To this end, we propose in this Chamber that an amendment be made to Article 36.2 of Law 18/2007 on trade, services and trade fairs, so that the latter collects a regulation in which commercial establishments must remain closed between 21_hours and 6_hours, during the twelve months of the year. We need to continue walking on this path without arrests, planning and promoting policies that improve the reconciliation of work and personal life, from all areas. It's our responsibility. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.238.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and to defend their position, as no totality papers have been presented, parliamentary groups have the word, starting with the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Laura Vílchez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.239.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Today, with this bill presented to us by Catalonia in Comú Puem, we are going to discuss a contradiction that means wasting time talking about time again. Time passes inexorably, they say, and there is no remedy to avoid it. If this statement is transferred to the subject before us today, time also passes for the trade sector and, with it, technological advances, knowledge of new ways of promoting trade, adapted to new habits of consumption and life in our society. That this law that we amend today was born out of date, we already knew. That this law was born with unconstitutional articles knowingly, that were only going to bring legal uncertainty to the sector, we also knew. That this law already showed the shortcomings of a government that was not willing to address the challenges facing trade in the 21st century, we already knew. And that this law was born with an article on business hours without asking anyone for an opinion, without consensus with the sector and out of any commercial and labor logic, we already knew. We knew it only a year and a half ago, that was when this law was passed and when this article was adopted, among them, with their support, with the support of their group, with the Socialist Party and the parties that supported the Government. Not us, but you supported that article. Today we are brought with us this proposal of law to return to the outdated, outdated and restrictive model in which very few people already believe today. This is no longer going to close the large areas to protect small trade; that debate could have taken place a decade ago, but not today, not today. The great challenge of small trade is no longer small trade versus large area, but the great challenge of small trade is its adaptation to the emergence of large e-commerce platforms. For this reason, it is of no use to restrict the timetable even more, if it is possible, the timetable of small trade, of trade in general, when, behind the articulation of commercial schedules, a few exceptions are approved, some made to measure for some municipalities, which in many cases release from the obligation to comply with the timetable imposed on the rest of them. And you also approved this, you also approved all these exceptions, being a great contradiction, I insist, in your approach that you bring us here today. If we have an obligation as legislators to have and maintain the capacity to analyse the data that we have at our disposal today and, in this case, on trade, in order to be able to optimise and predict how trends in consumption and consumption habits that we already have today will be affected in the future. With this simple proposition of law, in our view, you do not have that capacity and ignore all the data that you already have at your disposal. And by doing so we are reaffirmed in the opinion that we have today about your trading model, because you just have to look at the city of Barcelona, which is the city where you govern, to see that you have the whole trade and hospitality sector angry with your policies. They reduce investment in trade, both in trade and in proximity trade; investment that would serve for modernization, updating, digitisation, the organization of trade axes, associations, training in e-commerce to optimize sales through web portals, in the era of big data. They also have a magnificent opportunity to boost trade in urban economic promotion areas, the so-called APEUs or the IDBs. We already know that this law mentions them in passing – it was a mention of the government's blessing – but it is that you, who govern, are not putting it into operation either. Two pilot testing projects they have, which would serve for the reactivation of many areas of the city, are completely asleep, to this day, in a drawer. Fines to the hotel store, sending the Urban Guard to dismantle terraces; fines to shops for having flowers at the door. They delay or eliminate Christmas lighting in some areas, with corresponding complaints from the sector. That's his model. In case it were little, let us not forget that we have the CDRs cutting paths like AP-7, nothing more and nothing less, which is the way that connects Spain with the rest of Europe, and we have to endure that the government also treats it almost like a little girl. If that were not enough, moreover, today we live under the threat, and the trade as well, that the commands for the 21st are going to organize some actions that make the trade theme for their Christmas campaigns, which are perhaps the most important campaigns of the year in time to income and the viability of their business, and therefore they can come to load jobs and life projects. And with all this, all you worry about is closing an hour before. Well, we're going to let this bill move forward, and this paper is created so that they can, so that we can listen again to experts, so that we can listen again to representatives of the sector explaining what we really care about everyone: how to boost face-to-face trade, already having a global phenomenon like e-commerce. How to anticipate and give the solution to possible labor conflicts that may arise during all this adaptation. Let us remember that the competence in labour inspection is entirely of the Generalitat, and that therefore much more can be done at an autonomous level. It is our obligation to protect workers and to preserve their rights always – always. But that is totally compatible with an economic activity open to progress. The more dynamic and stronger our trade is, let us not forget that it accounts for 7_% of Catalan GDP, the stronger and less precarious the employment in the sector will be. We cannot pretend to homogenise a sector as dynamic and as changing as trade is, because what we cannot forget here is also consumers, who have a larger business time which is a great advantage when they can decide more freely when to go to the shops, especially those people who only have the weekend, for example, to be able to make their purchases, and also speaking in terms of conciliation. And in these terms of conciliation, traders can also establish with greater efficiency and freedom when to open their establishments in the schedules they determine according to the data they handle from sales, in terms of their marketing strategy, in order to be able to optimize their resources better as well. And all that without neglecting the working conditions, which we have skills for, which can help make a more open model a success. That, by the way, you mentioned the hourly reform, and I have to remind you that in the presentation of the hourly reform it was the trade sector itself that asked us not to be the policy tractor on timetable issues. In Spain we have the example of the Community of Madrid. The balance sheet after the adoption of more flexible timetables is that they have created 15,500 jobs. Surely, with room for improvement. But, in addition, the report of international financial analysts, the community has added 2,682_million extra GDP. In short, they bring us a change of law so that only a few fulfill it – only a few fulfill it. They know all the detail of exceptions that come after them. It will not be fulfilled by the establishments of less than one hundred and fifty square meters; it will not have to be fulfilled by the tourist municipalities, understanding, eye to the data, as tourist municipality, any municipality that has a commercial area of great affluence, even some areas of the city of Barcelona. So, who has to comply with this law, in the end? To whom does it really benefit and to whom does it protect? As you will have guessed, we share a strategy with Europe, where a large part of European countries already enjoy greater flexibility, such as Sweden, Portugal or the United Kingdom, which is already a trend at European level today. In short, be aware of the century in which they live, predict – predict – what is to come, be consistent with the proposals they present, unplug already the fax, and let us work for a trade of the twenty-first century. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.240.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units for the Advancement of Mrs. Alicia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.241.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, good afternoon to everyone; also to the Secretary General and to the Director General of Commerce who are accompanying us today. Well, today we are talking about a sector, the commercial sector, which is an important sector and which we probably spend less time in this Parliament than it deserves, because of the importance it has in our economy. I'd like to remind you of some of the things I'd like to remember. At these times we have, according to the data of 2017, 73,890 companies, which represent almost 12_% of the Catalan economy, and this sector is a sector that has 325,000 people, also 10_% of the workers in the country. Therefore, they are important figures, and above all we see in the last data that there has been a certain resumé. Since 2008 and 2009 there has been no increase in businesses, no increase in commercial establishments, and we see how this 2017 is starting to see a small upturn in trade data, and this is an important aspect, bearing in mind that we have two years of a very hard crisis that has clearly affected the commercial sector, due to the lack and loss of consumption, but also for other elements probably linked to its own competitiveness. Therefore, we are talking about an important sector and sometimes we do not forget, because it seems to be a secondary element. I think it would be worth it if we gave him the import he has, not only economic but also social. The commercial sector has a very important function for the cities, the trades are to the lower plants of our cities and municipalities, generate a very important social dynamic. Very often it is the person who knows the veins, the one who greets them, the one who asks how it is, and the one who sometimes realizes that there is a person five days ago who doesn't go through there, and we don't know if he is sick or something has happened to him. What generates trade socially and economically is very important, and quite often we do not give it the importance it has, and I think that in this Parliament we are talking insufficiently about it. In July 2017, it was commented, the Trade Bill was approved, you serve and fire, a law that came late – I said it at the time. We've been asking for it for a long time. There was a government commitment to bring it in 2013 and it wasn't like that, we had to wait a few years, and the truth is that after we got there late we did it in a hurry, and the CEO who's here today will remember, because we were going to say it. She was a girl in a hurry. After so long without counting on a law that was fair and that we had to address the important challenges that the trade still has today, and some pointed out to them the deputies that preceded me, so we had to do more to correct it. Probably because they suspected that the legislature was over and we would certainly have to put some commercial elements, but it was too fast, and we were not able to address a lot of issues, which we liked, with depth: the precariousness in the sector; the new sales platforms; the likelihood of commercial formats that we have in the country at this time; the new buying habits; logistics, as a paper has taken on a lot of logistics in the country, and this has a very clear impact on mobility; the new professional profiles that do not need all these changes in the sector... It is true that as we approach them, and the law did not allow us to address them all. Now it would be worth it, after a year and a half, to ask ourselves, right? In fact, there is one thing that did give the law and that forced us, forced the Government, that is that in div_meso it is necessary to present a draft law on the APEUs, on the areas of commercial excellence. The splits are done to the genera, counselor, and we expect them to bring it to the genera, and if not, to the fever, but it was the government's commitment to do so in a split as the law says, and that would be worth it if we could complete it. The other issues at the moment have not been able to work any more, but this one would be nice for us to come here, because we think that we could address some of these challenges – I don't want to say problems – than at these moments live, and I want to say so, the urban trade, above all, and therefore also the large-scale trade, but the particular urban trade, and therefore it would be good for the generation or fever of this law to come to Parliament. We have the Catalonian group in Comú We can, so criticized by Ciutadans, that, I don't know, you looked like the demons, because, listen, Mrs. Vílchez made a criticism, that I want to say to you, I want to thank you that you brought this proposal of law to modify the business schedule, because if one thing we have added to this year and a half that brings to the march is that this new time didn't work. And I'm saying, I agreed with the government, huh? But I want to say one thing: the only parliamentary groups that have done research to change business times and adapt them more to the hourly reform we were the CUP, Catalonia in Comú – at that time Catalonia Yes it is Pot – and the PSC. We are the only ones who tried to make a symbolic gesture to try to lay down or rationalize business hours. We were the only ones, yes, and I went over the papers, which I have there, which they presented. Why? Because it seemed to us that we could, with a speech of hourly reform, with a pact to get 2025 to be a different country, so it might be worth it in this aspect to move forward. And it's true that we got one thing, so probably shy, that it was dividing the schedule in summer and winter, and closing at 9. We're going to get it in the winter an hour before. Well, it wasn't what we wanted, but it was true that he was moving a little. And we probably have, too, because we have been told, so different sectors in the commercial sphere, not just the establishments or entities, but also the workers and consumers, that it was not a good..., it wasn't a good solution, this winter and summer time, and so what would be playing is a single time all year. And this proposal that is today on the table and that will allow us to modify this is thanks to Catalonia in Comú, and, therefore, we can, and therefore, Mrs. Vílchez, so, look, thanks to them we can have a new time, wait, for the year 2019, right? And it will solve at least this problem that creates uncertainty between consumers, that they never know when summer and winter begin, and that also creates a lot of problems in the same commercial establishments, because neither... play with these times and with the time changes with the workers is the most positive, and therefore this element has to change yes or yes. Then we'll go into the other side, which is what time we're tanking. There was: new and new. The proposal made by Catalonia in Comú Can be closed to them. What I think we should do on this issue is try to generate as much consensus as possible on all those elements that play in trade, that are consumers, people who work there, also business associations and business establishments, but we should try to generate a certain consensus with what we have said to preserve the Catalan business model, that I don't know if it's that model anymore, but in any case we should preserve it, and therefore see if it's new, or it's a little later, or it's a little earlier. There are some things that give me a certain contradiction, and I want to say it here. While we're here talking about the nine, or two-quarters of the new, or two-quarters of the god, it turns out that the Hourly Reform Pact is working with a lot of pilot evidence across the country trying to, therefore, that the trades are campaigning for a slow trade, for a trade that before, for a conciliation, and we've seen as recently as Lleida, for example, so two-hundred_two establishments have signed Lleida's membership, right? City, say, of conciliation and hourly reform, and for a few days they have shut down at seven o'clock. All happy, I suppose the consumers finally adapt, but this starts to generate followers, that is, that every time there are more people than you say: "Why don't we tank before? But it's also true, for the other band, that if it's just the trade, so we won't get out of it, because if it turns out that we get out of working at eight and the trade closes at seven, if the children and the children do extracurricular activities and finish at seven, and no matter what the trade does, we're hurting a sector. This does not seem to me to be a waste, and therefore, if we are doing an hourly reform, that we have already extended it until 2025, so we should see how everyone has taken some steps to advance the timetables. If they just do some, I think we're hurting them. Still, I say that we did it at that time, we think we're in favour of going on a little more times, because when you say, "Home, we're in a country where we live, and it's been a long time, I say, "Yes, and in Italy and Portugal too, and the shops are tanking in quarters of a set. What is the difference between Lisbon and Venice and us? Or Florence? So there's no sense in the weather, and it turns out they do tank before, but all their times go before, too. Therefore, it is a cultural change that must have-been in all areas of our country, not just in trade. Nor can he punish himself, but I think we are living in a constant contradiction that we should resolve, and in 2025 I seem to trust him too late. But in any case, if we are to make gestures, and we are to make proposals, that are in many areas. Now, in any case, this Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú We can offer our business schedules. I appreciate it, because I think he's playing a single for the whole year. Let's see if he's new or not. We had already made the proposal for the new ones initially, but I think it's important that we all understand, and I told Mrs. Vílchez, because it's not all white or black. We live in this contradiction that I explained, and I believe that among all of us, therefore, we must try to reach a consensus in order not to harm the commercial sector, nor to harm the worker or the consumers. That, too, I say, we adapt to everything, because the months, these winter months that we tank to the nine, so no one is going to buy later. It is true that the sector says, however, that the times of maximum influx are between eleven and one in the middle and seven in the evening, but people are used to it. I mean, we get used to everything, too. But I think it's worth a little bit of a sit-down, that if we can do it in committee, better, and we try to reach the maximum consensus among all the actors in the sector, because I think it's a very important sector, which we sometimes don't give it enough importance. A sector that speaks more than ever, and just today has made a statement saying that, please, 21 December we are calm, because people have to buy, they have to spend, the trades have contracted people for this season of Nadal. And, therefore, what best we can do for our economy is calm and do the work we do, which is preserve security and preserve the rights of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.242.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidate for Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, of the Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.243.0	Good afternoon. The discussion we have at this point, formally, is about whether between the months of June and September the commercial establishments of general character cannot be open-minded and with sales activity between the twenty-one and the six hours, together with the period that we already had from October to May. I say that this is the formal discussion because of the background, surely, and as a minimum, three great discussions were going on. The first, and I can call attention, is about who has the sovereign: if the sovereign has some of the big distribution companies or the people vote. Or, from another point of view, if sovereignty is held by the one hundred and thirty-five deputies who will end up voting, if today is still in process, and it seems that yes, of course, this normal change, or if, on the contrary, who is running that big distribution center that even tells us when spring begins. This is the first discussion we have. Second discussed. The second discussion is in relation to which protection we have in relation to small trade. It's true that at the end of the day, this is what it ends up affecting, and it has to be so, that they are at the big malls, at the distribution centers, at the big distribution channels; but the fact that we have such large times as there are until today that it affects, basically, in a negative way, is small business. And it affects small business because, from a human point of view and from an organizational point of view, small business, that of all life, is impossible for me to endure under the parameters of not exceeding even the self-exploitation of these times that today we have. Third argument. Which is the reality of the workers and the workers in the sector. Certainly, when we are talking about the sector, we must not only think about the sector, from the point of view of the employer, but also in the sector, from the point of view of the workers and the workers, who are the majority, who are the majority in this society and those who like or dislike the regulation of this one. On workers and workers, when we extend or reduce business hours, obviously it also affects their lives. There's a speech, very widespread by disgrace, and it's the great neo-liberal dogma, it's to expand hours, that generates work. The only thing I'm asking is for someone to carry data that is not concrete but global from places where hours have been extended, how many more hours, not how many contracts, but how many more hours have been generated, and how many less hours have been destroyed through small trade. Therefore, the analysis cannot only be carried out in relation to contractions, but the analysis must be carried out in the hours that are generated by work in the little one, which is destroyed, and in the big one, which is practically not generated. And practically it's not generated for what? For a simple matter, because expanding business hours is not about generating a tendency to new contracts, but a tendency to job deregulation: days that were stable on days that became precarious. Also an indirect effect, and we already advanced it, the indirect effect that means the destruction of occupation resulting from the elimination of the small trade. I suppose you don't miss out on any of the trends that have occurred in the last thirty years in relation to the elimination and destruction of small business in parallel to expanding business hours and the establishment, rather than expanding business hours, of large distribution centres. And lastly, a general character effect, as we want our barrels to follow. If anyone thinks about what a working bar was like thirty years ago as regards the plurality of trade and how are most of the working bars of our country already, therefore, trade, plural trade, the trade of all life – I don't speak nor do I speak of traditional trade – therefore, it is on the verge of extinction. There is only one type of trade, not to mention two, which is obviously that of a particular monoculture and of a certain reality. And so we also think how it all affects the life of our own barrels: whether we want live and living barrels or whether we only want certain barrels and city dorms. And lastly, for the specific regulatory change that is proposed, we are in favour of it, we are already moving forward, and we will say so in the parliamentary debate. We also want to remember that our proposal was not for the 21 hours, it was for the 20.30, and so we made statements in the previous processing. But still, we appreciate the proposal that is being made, from the Catalonian group in Comú We can because we think it's a way to bet, for one band, for small business, and, for another band, for the stability and rights of workers and trade workers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.244.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.245.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members and Members, our group does not agree with the establishment of this bill. Because you get a proposal from law basically from the one and excludes from the clockwise rationalization point of view. And I think when we talk about trade, obviously we can talk about clockwise rationalization, but we also need to talk about the competitiveness of trade. And, therefore, this proposition of law is done, only and exclusively, from a point of view, and we understand that it is not the point of view. Now, we also agree that the current drafting of the law as to the timing of the shutdown, this duality of times as long as it is summer or winter, has created confusion, has generated misunderstandings and is a demand of the sector to try to unify the times. And, therefore, we are addressing this debate, this proposal for law without addressing the whole with the will to enter into debate on what should be the time, but with the objective and the intention that the time be one year-round and not two different times, that the only thing they do is contribute to the confusion. Now, said that, and speaking of hourly reform, reconciliation of work and family life, but also taking into account the effects on competitiveness, escort'm, the first thing that is essential because we can reconcile work and family life is that there is work life. If we take measures that they do is to restore the occupation, we are going against a part of working life. I therefore believe that we must bear in mind that, according to what measures they can take, it is a contrary effect on working life, on employment, on growth and on the generation of wealth, and, therefore, an essential element to take into account. But there's an important element, too, for what he does at commercial times, and it's that the law doesn't force anyone to close at the limit of time, it doesn't force. It's a margin, it's a limit. If there are establishments they want to lock at seven in the afternoon, as Congresswoman Alicia Romero said, therefore, because they consider that they have to lock at seven in the afternoon are perfectly free to do so. If I believe that the advantage of not imposing obligations is precisely this: that each commercial establishment can adapt to a schedule that is the one that considers most appropriate for its own interests and for the interests of its own customers. If that's... I think it's the main element of business hours: allowing this freedom in the establishments to serve. Because in the end, if we impose restrictions on these times, there is another fundamental element to the proper functioning of trade, that we are consumers, that freedom we have – freedom we have. And freedom is twenty-four hours a day and 365 days a year. And that every time in a more intense way. And with these we're not limiting their time. And, therefore, in the measure that we limit the hours of conventional trade, what we would be encouraging is to divert consumers to another type of trade that does not have the same limitations, that is already happening, that I am not explaining that in the future rare things will happen, there will be spatial naus... No, no, that is happening now. We all bring the botiga to the butxaca – we all bring the botiga to the butxaca – and you serve incredibly fast. I therefore believe that at the time of determining what limitations we have in commercial establishments, it is very worthwhile to take into account the competitiveness of commercial establishments, in which the environment is changing and which are the tools and elements that can be achieved by favouring commercial establishments without, obviously, as far as possible harming working hours and facilitating the reconciliation of working and family life. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.246.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Then, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word Jordi Orobtig deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.247.0	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. In this case, I cannot bring my thanks, which would not be parliamentary courtesy, to President Torrent precisely for his kind words of welcome this morning, and this thanks for extending it to all the staff of Parliament, who has always rejected me with the courtesy, cordiality and professionalism that has always distinguished them. Okay. I'm going back to this legislative chamber and I'm coming back with a certain number of things that I've seen because, precisely, this topic was one of the most important we've ever had in the last legislature. In this case, I had the opportunity to work together, in this case, with Mrs. Alicia Romero on this law, together, for what she does to my parliamentary group, with Members Joan Ramon Casals and Fabian Mohedano. And, from this point of view, as far as the current wording of this article is concerned, and the better it certainly assumed to comply with the previous regulation – it is better to be pleased that in this case the group of commons make clear in the exhibition part of this bill – we find ourselves with the usual one, eh? Victory has a hundred pairs and defeat is erphenous. And, in this case, Mrs. Alicia Romero claimed that this better hourly obedience, precisely, to her considerations. I will not deny you the reality of this talk, but, as you will understand, you have in Fabian Mohedano in the parliamentary group, obviously any pressure in this sense coming out of your mouth and in soc direct witnesses. Okay. With this purpose of law and with the commons we share many more things beyond the cold. We are fully aware that there is no response to a need for family and work reconciliation, that in this case, this claim that you are bringing us here, that you have to deal with the voice of the trade workers, is entirely respectable, lawful and that we need to act on it. But it is also true that it is necessary to reconcile all interests, because, indeed, our task as legislators is to look at the point of balance, the centrality, with those laws that benefit the majority and, therefore, to cause the least possible hardship. What is certain is that there is a general consensus. The consensus is that everyone believes that the schedule must be uniform and that, therefore, this hourly disparity that we have predicted between the summer and winter seasons should cease to exist. In this case, the workers of the sector believe that this time should be limited to the nine of the evening. The employer of the small and medium-sized company has already told us that they understand it should be at 9.30. Our will, as I've always said, is to consent, reconcile, and try to find the understanding among all of us. It is clear that the Ciutadans group has made clear that this is neither its reality nor its need. They have made it clear to us, they have made it clear to us that they do not believe in the trade of proximity, and that, therefore, all the trade of this country can already lower the blind, can shut down the parade and we can all put ourselves to buy in online plataforms. In the same way that, as Mr Rodriguez has just explained, for the People's Party, it seems that here we have to live in the Western, we do not have to have any way of regulation and to what is always said: the market will self-regulate and, therefore, the labor rights, the workers' rights and social rights, are the last to arrive with this eternal promise that when we have full occupation for deregulation, it is when we can solve all those social battles. If any harm is caused to us by this proposal which brings us today, it is that, as you well know, the Law 18/2017 was the object of an appeal of unconstitutionality on the part of the Government of the State, which, in this case, fortunately and, for which it is stated, by mistake or accident, happened, therefore, this article in concrete, article 36.2.a was not the object of appeals, but what was indeed the limitation of the hours to the maximum name of seventy-five hours per month. We understand that this proposal of law, the result of this, can generate, in this case, a new opportunity of the government of the State, in order to be able to institute an appeal of unconstitutionality, as it is obvious that if you are delimiting the hourly band of opening you are making an incidence in the maximum weekly time. Let us remember that precisely the regulation that was hard to finish the later parliamentary term in Parliament, therefore, because of the fact that the estimation of the unconstitutionality appeal, in this case against the Law of Commerce of Catalonia, implied that we did not go to the margin of ninety-five hours, that it was the one proposed by the state legislation; that they had an agreement and that they did not write, therefore, the large areas accepted this maximum of seventy-five hours, that it was the one provided for by the Law of Commerce, in front of the seventy-two of the previous regulation, and that, therefore, this solution, that today does not seem good to anyone, eh? What is this disparity between the winter hours and I am, at that time, in that context, in the framework of a much broader legislative debate than the one you have to see strictly with the commercial hours, seemed to be a salomonic decision that has all the salomonic decisions, that do not please anyone, huh? , because everyone is still doing well with their arguments and criteria. Therefore, let us celebrate the presentation of this proposal. We understand that we will have much more time, as the lords of the PSC and the PSOE do not approve a 155 in order to continue to discuss this, not only of this, but of many other things, for the sake of our society, of our trade and of our workers, and, therefore, I insist, this kind of dialogue, conciliation and concertation, that it is the one I believe that must preside over politics in this chamber, and that it is, if not, that the Republican Group, to which I belong, wants to rise, therefore, must be the means by which we must precisely find a solution to this problem, which obviously exists. Also by putting the focus on a question to which you fail in your law proposal, but which it is legitimate to remember. We are all talking about hourly reform, and we are all talking about hourly conciliation, but we are all oblivious to achieving this conciliation, and in this sense I think it is only fair to recognize that trade is right when it demands or claims that not all the balance of conciliation falls on it, and when it says trade in it, obviously, to the middle-class employer and small business. It is true that the hourly reform, the National Reform Pact for Hourly Reform, speaks of the need to reconcile, but it also speaks of mechanisms to do so. And he's not just talking about reducing the opening hours of commercial establishments, but he's also talking about that, in the collective bargaining process, huh? , which have to do with businesses, it is possible to find mechanisms that make it possible to focus on consumption habits, in short, of consumers, of citizens, as it is logical to think that, if everyone comes out of work, it is easier to advance their buying hours, and, therefore, that they can enjoy afterward, therefore, from a time of the oci, a much wider family time, isn't it? So, I think we'd be wrong if in this proposition of the law we focused exclusively, not just the ponies, huh? I think that we should go further than that, that the objective should be, precisely, to do something not only in the strict timetable of the commercial establishments, we should be more ambitious and, therefore, in the framework of this National Pact for Hourly Reform, to find the mechanisms and tools that allow us to influence those proposals of 7.5, if I do not recall poorly, and 8.6, which, precisely, between other measures, propose this, eh? , to influence in the field of collective bargaining. Therefore, I insist, we will work hard and hard with you to make this proposal come true. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.248.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. To finish this round of positions, has the word deputy Teresa Pallarès, for the Parliamentary Group Joints for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.249.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, Secretary of Enterprise and Competitiveness, Director General of Commerce, MPs, MPs, and I would especially like to greet the representatives of the sector who have also decided to accompany us today. Look, this is the last place I'm going to be, maybe I'm going to repeat some concepts, but I wasn't part of the pose, and so, surely for me, I've found a lot of new things, haven't I? But what I do know and believe that we can share all the members of this chamber is that talking about trade in Catalonia means talking about an economic sector that is a vertebrating element, as we have said, to our cities; more than that, it is..., I would say, it forms part of the soft bone of our society, and, even more so, of our configuration as a country, it is one of the elements that characterize us within the configuration of the country in which we want to live. It is also an important tool of social cohesion, for the intercanvi, for its day by day in the barrels, in the cities, and, obviously, an economic engine. We think it is the raison d'être of many entrepreneurs and locals in our home who have seen how the trade in different formats has been shaped by the need to buy users and consumers and, as we see, and as we know, they are very changing. But it has to be emphasized that the sum of the trade in the detail and the fertilizer has an impact of almost 16_percent of contribution to the Catalan GDP. We are not talking, therefore, of a whim but of the regulation of an important economic and social activity, also, because it almost supposes the contribution of a 15_per_cent in places of work, almost half a million people, of workers and workers of Catalonia. Therefore, by responsibility it is very important that we take care of this sector. Mirin, in the hundreds of commercial establishments we have a statistical tool, which elaborates the General Directorate of Commerce and the General Council of Cambras, which allows us to have up-to-date information on the commercial activity of the territory, based on statistical figures, such as name of establishments, sales area or even all the offer. So, according to this census, Catalonia counts with 103,214 establishments – data from 2017 –, which suppose an increment of almost 2_per_cent, a 1.87, compared to 2016, and a median commercial density of 13,66 establishments per thousand inhabitants, xifra that also represents an increase of the '1,4_per_cent compared to 2016. This same example shows that these businesses, most of them, have less than sixty-five square meters, and that each of them is located within the consolidated urban plot, which is a characteristic trait of our business model and of our city model in Catalonia. We see it's good news, it's increased, as it was said, the number of companies. That's good news, especially for the Citizen Group that we usually talk about this big economic crisis. The data gives us another feeling. I believe that we can therefore agree that this is important information that leads us to undertake public regulatory policies always on the side of the sector, unlike what has also been said before, always on the side of the sector. Look, the trade has faced very important challenges. One of them has been mentioned, which I think is this change, the technological environment that offers new shopping experiences and this idea of this omnichannel user, we have not talked about I almost all believe. And that means that the trade must also be adapted to these changes and the Administration must be at the side of the trade in this adaptation. We need to advance folds in digitization and big data. I think we all agree that this is important. He also goes through an intense training bag. Therefore, I think it is important here to be on the side of the Administration and awareness of entrepreneurs and the same workers to be part of this technological sphere that obviously sets us on all important challenges that are not of the future but are already present. But trade also had to face another important challenge that followed the eruption of the "top layer that has often posed local commercial strategies, especially in areas of more touristic influx or large clusters of commercial influx, such as the city of Barcelona. It may be pointed out that this is a reality that we must also face folded, face and advance in regulation so as not to harm the competitiveness of all those who do things as they are and have every day the responsibility to raise the blind of their establishments. We also ask all groups to stand firm to face up to those policies that arise to protect our idea of a Catalan business model. I would like to emphasize the importance of the approval that passed 2017, August 2017, of the law. I was able to read the Sessions Diary, and I was surprised by the good tune between the speakers. Mrs. Vílchez put a little question to me, but it seemed to me with the reading of the Sessions Diary that there was a very good tune. In all ways I think it will be very interesting to reopen this debate thanks to the Group of Catalonia in Comú Can, because we are there and I think it will be very interesting to talk about these issues again. In any case, I would like to say that the co-existence and co-existence of commercial activity, the provision of services and the residential use of the solo represents a winning bet in the formation of a model of trade that is propitious, competitive and sustainable, from the economic point of view, as we have seen, also social for the impact of the worker and of social cohesion, and also environmentally speaking, above all taking into account the adoption of urban management and resource-saving criteria. And here I'd love to have time to talk about the role of urban economic promotion areas, which I hope we also have an opportunity to do. Surely, and as it is after the exhibitions that preceded me and those that were held in the Sessions Diary, there were important themes left to continue working. Fears that they are and will be the result of constant social and technological changes which will not be alien to the trade sector, but I think that from parliamentary responsibility we need to set up and modify ourselves when necessary. The laws have to change when they touch and ask who they ask. So much good can be done with the Constitution too. This, always and in this case, with the support of the sector, which is ultimately better aware of the needs of consumers and the changes that it is necessary to apply and regulate so that this activity continues to be a trademark in our home. With the answer, let's say, from our parliamentary group, but I think, counselor, that I can also speak on behalf of the talks I have had with the Government, we now find ourselves here with this proposal for a law of amendment in which we too will find ourselves. We remain open to listen to the proposals of the different comparisons that could be made with the sector, above all in response to the demand to compact a single time, I believe that we would all agree on this. And to look for the formula that is most suitable to make compatible the criteria of competitiveness with family reconciliation, as has already been expressed in this chamber with the Hourly Reform Pact with a broad parliamentary consensus. And I want to end as I started, to talk about trade, to talk about the future and one of the important economic pillars of our country's construction. By responsibility, as I said, for our parliamentary task and also for the government's responsibility we will be on the side of the best measures that are proposed to excel in a model of quality, serve, cohesion and care for people. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.250.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pallarès. The debate is over and as long as you do not address the whole issue, this legislative initiative can continue its processing. [[Procedure relating to the General Accounts for 2015]] [[257-00003/11]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is item 10, on the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee of the Union of Auditors on the procedure relating to the General Accounts for 2015. Before I begin, allow me to greet, in the name of the chamber, the illustrious Lord Jaume Amat, the chief syndic, and all the members of the Union of Accounts who are accompanying us today. In accordance with Article 185.5 of the Rules of Procedure, the report on the General Accounts is presented by Mr. Jaume Amat, the major syndicate of the Union of Accounts, in this case without time limit. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.251.0	Good afternoon, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, appear before the plenary of this Parliament to present the report of the Union of Accounts on the General Account of the Generality corresponding to the year 2015. All right, as the president has already said in announcing, according to rule 185 of this chamber. This report was approved by the Trade Union Plenary on 13 September 2017. The ple of the union today has already approved the account of the following exercise, the General Account of 2016 and the general intervention of the Generality has delivered, has returned to the Union of Accounts, in terms, the account of 2017, which is with which the union is already working to tax it. The 2015 General Account, formulated and presented for the General Intervention of the Generality, is composed of three large packages: the General Administration Account of the Generality, the annual account of the Català de la Salut Service, the Catalut and the autonomous administrative entities, and the annual accounts of the consortia affiliated to the Generality. This is a change in respect of the other accounts and, even so, in respect of what was determined by Article 80 of Catalonia's public finance laws. Why? Because before he was told that he would have... in the Generality's account he added the accounts of the social security management entities. From these, the ICASS no longer exists, because it has been diluted from the corresponding department; the ICS has been requalified as a public right entity, then it is presented from what would be the list, at the level of assumptions and at the level of accounts, of public right entities, and the Cat salut is added, adds to the autonomous entities. This makes the account presentation varied. With respect to the third account, the consortia, above all from Law 27/2013, of rationalisation and sustainability of the local administration, where it is mandatory that the consortia join a given entity, both locally and in character..., as is the Generality, this adscript does, moreover, in the same law, that these consortia add their account to the account of the entity in which it is registered. With this change, there is a third distance from this general account that is all those consortia that on the date they closed the account were registered with the Government of Catalonia. Then, in the end, I'll talk a little bit about it, because there are some that aren't yet... they're consorts that don't have a mother and a father, so to speak, they're still not registered anywhere. But that was the first part of the law's development. That said, of these three accounts, which are the responsibility of the Generality's intervention, the union unites, to these, some others, which are the accounts of the autonomous entities of commercial character, the accounts of public enterprises, the accounts of the other entities of public law, and, still, because in the 15th is still, the general accounts of the four Catalan deputies, that already, more than once in this very same, we have said that it does not cease to be a reminiscence, as the Catalan delegations, logically, are local administration, but historically, are retained from the Generality's account. This has now changed, but in the 15th the rule still forced to unite it and to return 'jointly with the Generality's account. The purpose of this report? The objective of the general account, the report, is to verify the adequacy of the economic information and to finance the rest of the accounts, the accounting principles and also the compliment of legality, and thus to facilitate the approval of the general account for this Parliament, and as I have also said more than once, to close the presuppositionary cycle that began on March 11, 2015, which is when the 2015 budget was approved. In this report, we are also talking about limitations, some limitations that have been going on for some time, which are probably the most important thing that the union notes is the fact that there is a lack of documentation of costs and revenues from public services and the degree of compliments of programmed objectives, which should be prepared together with the account, if we follow the applicable rules, and which would allow us all to carry out management audits or operational audits, since if we do not know the objectives and do not know the costs, it is difficult to audit what is the result of this management. This limitation is what makes the report not go any further in this whole area, which would be the area of the operating auditorium. At the centre of the conclusion of the report we have the opinion, the opinion of the union. In this case, the opinion of the trade union expressed is: that it accepts for the possible effects of the limitations described, and in this case are observations 6, 15, 18, 20, 24 and 25, and for the effects described in observations 11, 16, 21 and 22, the general account audited, with the abst described in this report, expressed, in all aspects significant, the faithful image of the assets of the financial situation of the Generalitat at 31 December 2015, and also the results of the cash flow and of the budgetary settlement corresponding to the annual exercise completed on this date, according to the standard mark, of which it is not applied. From this long opinion to twenty-seven observations, that are the mark, those observations, that the union believes that it is either wrong or better, that it is this concept of observation that we use in all the reports we make to the union. From these observations, as you have seen, many are recurring from previous years. In fact, there are five new built-in, and two modified ones. The others are up-to-date. Logically, the 15's data aren't the same as the 14's, and what they've done is update the data. I also have to say, and it is important to say, and I want to complain, that in the report it is also worth noting six better, important better introduced for those responsible for the comptability of the account, in this case for the General Intervention, respect the previous account, it is to say, that there has been a positive response to previous observations, which have assumed, therefore, six important better respect the retut account, the previous one, that of 2014. If we go directly to make a summary of what these twenty-seen observations are, the first, the financing needs of the year 2015, calculated according to SEC criteria, were 5,879_million euros. This meant a deficit of 2.87_percent of Catalonia's GDP, before the target of 0.7, is that it did not complete the target of 0.7, up from 2.87. With respect to the public debt objective. The target was 34.5 and it was a little over, 35.7. The objective was not completed either, but in this case, the margin is relatively small. And it respects the third objective, which is that of the expenditure rule, here also did not complete the objective, since the increment was 10,3_per_cent, when the margin was located at 1,3_per_cent. Second. According to the criteria also established in the ESA, the IGAE, the State General Intervention adjusted 1,536_millions of the budgetary balance of the financial year 2015, because it considered that certain surface rights of the Administration of the Generality, formalized in years..., many years before, were to be considered public investment. In addition to these 1,536, there are also 419_million ATM, Metropolità Transport Authority, because they considered financing a series of train leases, which in principle appeared as operating contracts. As with other years, the liquidations of the General Administration's budget and above all of the CatSalut do not include part of the expenditure incurred during the financial year for the lack of sufficient budget. The expenditure incurred in the 2015 financial year and unaccounted for was 1,331_million, 726 of which corresponded to the CatSalut, while in 2014, it was recognised in 2015, it was 2,917. The Consolidated Romanesque State does not distinguish between the affected Romanesque State and the unaffected Romanesque State. The consolidated three-year romant at 31 December of the 15th was 2,408_millions negatios, which represents an increase of 20_per_cent compared to 2014. And, logically, this generates treasuries. The import of the downstream risk granted at 31 December 2015 was 3,785_million, which, even though it is lower than other years, is still high. The Administration of the Generality in 2015 continued to apply the General Public Competitiveness Board of the Generality approved in 1996, but it is true, today, that later, June 2017, the new General Public Competitiveness Board of the Generality, which is now being implemented, is approved. That is to say, in the 15th we were still living on the comptability board of 96, and in our reports we claimed this update of the comptability board, bearing in mind that the Administration of the State in 2010 already had a new comptability board, now, today, we can say that in the 17th it has already approved a new comptability board, which is what follows the Administration of the Generality. What I said before the consortia: only 38 of the 67 analyzed consortia had their statutes adapted to March 31, 17. All adaptations took place after 31 December 2014, which was the law's deadline. How do you conclude these observations? Therefore, the union recommends that corrective measures be taken to address the deficiencies detected, which continues to note the delicate financial situation of the Generalitat on 31 December 2015, taking into account the need for financing, the Romant of negative treasury, the pro-negative funds, and the high debt, as well as the State of expenditure commitments for future years. If, in short, we are talking about concrete data on what the General Administration account would be, which is the largest of all the accounts I have explained before, at the settlement of the account's balance sheet, there were liquidated rights, i.e., an income of €36,022_million, and a recognizable obligation of €35,853. At 31 December 2015, the staff of the Generalitat was 123,614 effective, before 121,306 of the previous year, of 2014. The working staff experienced a reduction of 2.9_per_cent, the indefinite workforce increased by 13.9, while the staff involved increased by 17.4. During the 2015 fiscal year, the Generalitat continued to use different extraordinary financing mechanisms created for the State – it could not do anything else – including highlighting the formalization of an ICO loan in relation to the FLA, the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, worth €11,293_million. Following the FLA, of the total debt financing of the Generalitat at 31 December 2015, which was 63,840_million euros, of these 63,840, the debt corresponding to the financing fund created for the State, was 43,343, i.e., already occupied 68_percent of the total debt financing of the Generalitat. The state of expenditure commitments acquired for future years amounted to EUR 103,521 million in 2015, with an increase of '1,9 compared to year 14. For the administrative contract, another of the apartments that in the general account also devotes part to its study, the contract due to term for the Generality and throughout its public sector during 2015, was awarded a total of 34,663 contracts for a combined value of 2,529_million euros. Finally, the report was approved, as always, a time-long review and reply to the annexes submitted to this report. And you can see it in your presentation, if you have a private vote. I also have to say that at present, the Union of Accounts, together with the 2015 general account, has approved separate, or determined, reports from the general government sector corresponding to the financial year 2015. That is to say, these are the ones who somehow make up for what the general account would be, which is the global account, with concrete reports, of concrete areas, all of which, in this case, respect the 2015 financial year. I would like to conclude this intervention by reiterating, as on other occasions, the need to resolve the observations that we have made in the General Accounts' reports a year later, and that, despite the limitations of our resources and of all, we are working to improve, narrow the deadlines, and give as much quality as possible to this report and to all that we present before this chamber. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.252.0	Thank you, Mr. Mayor. To fix its position, on behalf of the parliamentary groups, has the word in the first place the deputy José María Cano, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.253.0	Counsellor, vice president... deputies, deputies, deputy major and team accompanying you, audience assistant, very good afternoon to everyone. Today Mr Syndic presents to us in this plenary the report of the Union of Accounts on the accounts of the Generalitat for 2015. First of all, I would like to thank the Mayor and the entire union team for the work they have done. I would also like to note that the deadlines for the preparation of such reports have been shortened, which I thank you for, and I encourage you to continue along these lines. To say, on the other hand, that this report entered this chamber on November 15, 2017, as the syndic said, and I want to denounce that we see it today, when it has already been more than a year since its entry. A further example of the paralysis and blockade to which the separatist bench has submitted and submits to this Parliament, where something as transcendent as the 2015 report, the one analysing whether the economic and financial information of that year is in line with the accounting principles, takes more than a year since its presentation by the trade union to be dealt with at this plenary session. It must also be a result of the fact that you cannot be very proud of the outcome of this report, can you? The picture that shows us is a terrible picture of the economic and financial situation of the public accounts. To say that the report is also the subject of an analysis of compliance, no more or less, with the legality of the accounts, a principle of legality to which all public authorities are subject, and in this case ensures that any action of the Generalitat is provided for and protected by the law in force, a legality that protects citizens from abuses of power. Therefore, to recognize the paper of the Union having to analyze the accounts of those who gave a blow to democracy, of those who missed the Constitution, the Statute of autonomy and the Council of Guarantees, of those who trampled the rights of more than half of this chamber, of those who got into our houses and wanted to change our passport, and that today they continue to try to do, and above all, understand me, the accounts of those who have open causes, precisely, by embezzlement of public funds. Entering the content of the report, the union warns us of twenty-eight limitations to its control. The vast majority are recurrent, which repeat in the reports, as the syndic told us, year after year, without any response or will to resolve those on the part of the Government, a government that should take these reports seriously and, in an exercise of transparency, would have to solve all these limitations. That would be the best example, in our view, of gratitude and recognition for the work of the union. To say that the first thing the report shows us is the government's lack of rigour and honesty in calculating and managing budgets, a lack of rigour in meeting the goals that they set themselves. I want to remind them that the 2015 budgets presented them Convergence, late, as always, that yes, and were approved with the support of Republican Left. These were the budgets that Mr Pere Aragonès defined as those of the national transition. This lack of rigour that they were told led them to fail to meet all the requirements of the Budget Stability Act, failed to meet the deficit ceiling, failed to meet the debt limits, failed to comply with the expenditure rule. When they claimed that the deficit would be 0.7_per_cent, the final result was four times higher, it was 2.87_per_cent, and they stretched the arm more than the sleeve by almost 6,000_million_de_euros. And these financing needs obviously implied greater indebtedness that we will end up paying among all, and more than likely future interests that will entail fewer resources to implement social policies. Generalitat's public debt reached EUR 64,000_million that year, a debt that now exceeds EUR 77,000_million. That is, each Catalan has a debt parcel in the Generalitat's accounts that exceeds EUR 10,000. A debt that is qualified as a garbage bond and that we can only refinance through the autonomous liquidity fund, through the FLA. In short, what the union report shows is that the criticisms made by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group of the 2015 budgets were correct. The facts have unfortunately given us reason. In their day we warned them that the budgets they presented in 2015 were a fraud, were false, and the two groups that supported them, Convergence and Esquerra Republicana, were perfectly aware that they were not going to be able to fulfill them. Therefore, with these budgets, in the end, what they did was to deceive citizens directly. In addition, they were budgets that were framed within the period of which they applied the most antisocial cuts in history, with cuts above the 700_million_euro in health care, and above the 400_million in education. Moreover, these resources were not intended primarily to provide economic resources for the best public policies, were not intended for policies that guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens, improve social justice and enhance equal opportunities. They were not, in short, aimed at policies adapted to the economic situation of that year, a year, 2015, with the crisis very present, where many families were having a bad time and unfortunately continue to do so in the activity, where economic activity did not just go back and needed a budget to deal with incentivizing the, but, above all, as now, it needs not to be put on the wheels. In short, it needed politicians to think about citizens' problems, their well-being and the improvement of the economy and employment. But instead we find politicians who, instead of focusing, as I said, on those goals, focused and focus on disconnection, mortgageing, at the same time, future generations. They preferred to prioritise their state structures, put forward and put forward their national construction to the interests and well-being of the citizenry. And governance means prioritizing, choosing the destination of budget resources, which are limited resources and which feed on the taxes that we all pay. And you have prioritized, and in this case continue to prioritize, the separation of the rest of Spain from social policies. They prioritize propaganda against Spain, with embassies and the Diplomat, to contribute to economic revival. They prioritize subsidies to related media outlets to meet their commitments and pay staff overtime. And ultimately, they prioritize the chiringuitos, to end the schools we have in barracks. All these are their real priorities. And when they talked in that budget, for example, about own wealth, they did not mean improving the fight against fraud, which would have to be our priority; it was not about coordinating with the Spanish Tax Agency to be more efficient and effective; everything was limited to squandering resources in an attempt to clone the Spanish Tax Agency with the sole interest of usurping its functions. They cut and squandered public resources. And in the face of this waste they did not want or want to evaluate their policies, and therefore, as the syndicate of accounts rightly said, they do not include in the general account another of the union's historical claims: a memory of the costs and returns of public services and the degree of compliance with the planned objectives. Their policies are a collage that they never evaluate. They never analyze alternatives or results. And that tailgate gets worse with big management disasters, like ATLL, like Spanair, or like the 9_de_metro line. Or with a policy of friends like that of public-private opaque collaborations that deserve even a particular vote in the report, where the benefits are privatized and the losses we end up paying among all. In short, millions and millions of euros are going for their colliery. Nor is there a reform of the Administration that eliminates duplicity and chiringuitos, and when they lack resources to maintain their modus vivendi, they are indebted and put their hand in the pockets of Catalans. And, in the end, this great collage leads them to talk about funding, to talk about insufficient resources, about the relationship between the Generalitat and the General Administration of the State, as a constant complaint. But, however, they choose not to represent us, they choose not to defend their vision of financing, leaving empty the chair of our autonomous community at the meetings of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. And, let's not be fooled, they do it because they have no spirit of summation. The only thing that interests them is that their discourse sustains their project of separation, their project of division, a discourse that does not aim to improve funding, only aims to build alibis. I have little time left, and I will use this report to be constructive and to provide solutions to the bankruptcy situation that these accounts show us. Look, things won't change, things will get worse. Things will get worse if they persist in their division project that leaves more than half the Catalans out. Go to the meetings of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. Go in the spirit of summation. Stop squandering taxes and evaluate your policies by eliminating duplication. And they devote themselves to prioritizing social and economic recovery policies. Our vote, given the difficulties the union has in carrying out its work, will be to abstain. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.254.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. The words of MP Óscar Ordeig, for the Parliamentary Group of the PSC Units to advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.255.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor d'Economia, Vice President, Councillor, members of the department, to the union team, a greeting. Well, from the Socialist Group Unites per Avance, we will make a positive assessment of the report, as we always do, but we will also display important shortcomings that we believe are repeated and repeated, not only to the Commission of the Union, but also to the reports of the general account of one year back to the other, and that much of the responsibility for being able to put a line to the needle is of the Department of Economy. Many repeated in 2018, many repeated not only on the 15th, but the previous years, according to what we are debating. Therefore, first of all, obviously, thank the union assembly for the feta work, as always. Also, ask the Government to take concrete steps. We have also made proposals to try that the Department of Economics make a list of all the elements, recommendations, observations that were presented to improve the control of public finances also of the Generality, because we do not have to repeat the same many times and, therefore, we will repeat it again today, here. Secondly, we would like to point out some comments that are expected to go into the depth and detail of the report, and that, by addressing the Aragonese Councillor directly, we have a problem. We have several, but it is that the finances of the Generality cannot follow the trajectory, the photo we have in 2015 and that much has gone on repeating the previous years and also the subsequent years. Every year the same history of lack of control in some aspects, of tensions of treasuries in others, which are changing, is modulating, but obviously, we have an important problem, of growing worrying about the deficit, the debt, the Romanesque negatiu, the consolidation of the retails, and we enter into this circle that there is no way out. We need to increase the entrance level and we need to make decisions so that this is possible. In our view, the Generalitat's financial structure does not give in such a way that it can guarantee the state of welfare and the necessary entrances to guarantee the services in health, education, social services, etc. We believe that in the background we are trapped between its members of the old Convergence, PDECAT, Together for Catalonia or also the CUP and, therefore, if we move on one side or go to negotiate on the other side, as then there are tensions, it makes us stay as we are, so that we do not advance with new entries, with new negotiations. And with a new funding? No, this isn't his project. Improve current funding? No, this isn't his project. New budget with more than 2,200_million euros for Catalonia? No, it's not his project. Flexibility of the deficit with more than 500 million more? No, it's not his project. So, I say, listen, how do you think you're gonna get more tickets? And so, say, listen, we can't stay the same, because staying the same is going back, it's going to be worse, and, as we see it, obviously it doesn't only affect public services but the economy and day by day. Where are we coming from? What was going on in 2013 or 2014? So, from social detail, as I said, also disparate deficit, we talk about the out-of-control debt, we talk about the sale of assets as the worst of the negotiations that the Generality has made in the past years – fourteen immobiles that came under the cost price – and we also have a pending report of the 2018 debate, of the Balseiro syndicate, which we also say we don't even know the assets we have, we don't have a good inventory of the assets of the Generality and of the dependent entities. Therefore, we would work much better in this sense, as one might also be in favour of privatizing or not privatizing certain services, but what is clear is that there has been a bad governance of the privatisation of Aigues Ter-Llobregat, an unusual error, more than ideological appreciation of which is the best way to give this service, whether from a public or private point of view, but more, then, the compensations and judicial problems that it has entailed. Like the privatisation of the Vallvidrera and Cadí tunnels, there is no negotiation, as we have already said, of the improvement of autonomous financing, and therefore a management, in short, we believe, to say it in a fine, much better way. On the general account and what the major syndic has commented to us, of the 36,000_million euros, there are many, there are few, it is the highest assumption that we have discussed until now, higher than, at last, before entering the economic crisis, and, therefore, 36,000 to 15, the same 16, 37,000 to 17; therefore, there is more money than before the crisis, another thing is as we try to still more or as we try to manage them well. As we have said, it is impossible to manage on condition, if we have a deficit of more than 5,800_million euros, a 56_percent increase respect the 14. It has already been said: 2.8_percent deficit. A debt of 74,000_million euros, when in 2010 it was 28,000_million euros. When we are told that the tripartite has left so much debt, so much debt... even though we have left the debt at zero, in 2010, we would have a debt of more than 40,000_millions, now. Threesome Romanent? That it is true that we have improved a little bit, but in 2015, too, it took less..., with 2,400_million euros denied. The expense floor, it's said, 10_per_cent. Or, obviously, we have to make provision for the possible compensation of the Aigues Ter Llobregat. In short, counselor, it is obvious, we will all agree, that it is not the best of the circumstances financed to manage an autonomy. And so, so we can't go on, and we could refocus our finances, think about how we can focus our finances on our own years, how we can improve on tickets, how we can improve..., and, here, obviously, there are various lines, as we have already pointed out, of flexibility in deficit, of improving the expense floor, of improving the current finance. In short, each parliamentary group must choose its own formula, but we must also ask the Government to have its own, to defend it and to pull it forward. Observations and deficiencies that are repeated one year before another year. Home, the majority, as has already been said, were on the last year's report. Therefore, we ask, please, the advice: they do the dues, take note, resolve, correct the problems that are repeated one year ago, and we are not going to come the year that you see, here, to repeat a time more than the accounts are not consolidated, that it is not the reconciliation of the balances, that the German method or other forms of financing, European funds, payments of canons, etc., the supporting memoranda have been incorrectly counted. If there are any standards, they must be fulfilled; if you see here, in the plenary of Parliament, and you do the detail, then, man, you hope that you take the appropriate management measures, because this is not repeated. And, obviously, also other reports that we have also seen to the union of manifest and heavy and repetitive irregularities in contracting procedures, in control of public competitions, in control of economic concerts. This, any of the companies that we are at the Union of Accounts says: "Home, when it is already repeated and, above all, when it is very big imports and, above all, in the area of sanitation..., man, we take measures. And proposals have been made, in this sense, to try to improve the efficiency of control. Nine observations of 2015 that were not previously. Home, it is also said that different consorts have not presented the general account; therefore, stretched out of earrings. Of the sixty-seven consortia analyzed, only thirty-eight have the statutes adapted. And, with that, I turn to the private vote made by the Pons syndic: we need to be tighter in control, the assessment of consortia, entities, foundations that have public money. Why, you see that, huh? Whether or not we're in the public sector, so look, for one band, we escape, for the other, no. But, listen, the standards are very clear, one can lose sight of one year, but once a report has been made and it is said that it has to be done in a certain way, so, since the intervention of the Generality – but obviously, also from the government – the necessary measures must be taken so that this does not happen again. Other aspects of improvement respect the 14. As we have already said, the deposit of bank deposits of EUR 680_million is cancelled; lost, it is accounted for lost for the sale of 4 farms, we come under the cost price – we come under the cost price –, bad negotiations, another time, and provision of EUR 380_million. On the Pons syndic's vote, we, like we're tired of seeing it, which seems to me to be eight years old with the same recommendations..., man, so, some of us have already seen them, but I think we would need to do a more detailed analysis of the future expenses, which come from 2010 and which come before 2010. If it's the same for us! It has all changed a lot and we need to do a more detailed analysis of public-private collaboration, when it is justified and when it is not, of the remuneration of staff, of how we implement future spending commitments. And, therefore, all the recommendations they make, which we believe we will present, so as to make a more detailed study. In short, we will abstain, we will facilitate approval, but we cannot justify the political management that has taken place. We believe that the republic is not above, but we have to try to get the money from autonomy, and the best way to do it is to have a government with a will and capacity because it can do a better management to finance the resources of the Generality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.256.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. Next, it's the turn of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Podemos, and deputy Lucas Ferro has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.257.0	Thank you very much, President. Many thanks, to the members of the union. I think talking about the accounts for the year 2015 is talking about the end of a stage, it's talking about the arrival, probably, of President Arthur Mas, and I think that this is the biggest interest you have today talking late and late in the 2015 report is being able to account for the government of the best. And it has a double interest, after this late heat we have seen, that it is passing accounts with those who told us that, in order to contain public expenditure and deficit, it is necessary to apply fiscal austerity formulas, to retail and privatize public services, damaging the jointness of citizens and public workers, to devalue the living conditions of workers and, above all, to put a red cap on the highest returns of the country, to offer them opportunities for negotiations in the privatized public sectors and to provide them with bonuses and reductions of taxes on estates and on the higher sections of the IRPF. And today you will allow us, at a time when the presuppositional discussion and discussion about the model of public management in Catalonia is on the table, to account for Catalonia's government of the best, which has brought public servants and the citizenry of this country to a limit. Accountability and accountability is probably the only way we have today to make an honest dialogue on the impact of austerity and retail policies in Catalonia, and it is probably the only way to have an honest dialogue on how to reconstruct, presumably and politically, the state of welfare in our home. The government of the best, which allied the Spanish State on how it retailed Catalonia, while sending the young people of this country to London to serve coffee, justified – and, today, has also done so the business and knowledge councillor – fiscal austerity policies, basically, for two reasons: the need to devalue the conditions of workers in Catalonia to gain in competitiveness, which led us to the government's majority party, at that time, supporting the two labor reforms, and the need to contain public spending. From the first part, from the pay devaluation, I think it's better or not to talk about it. I think we see the success he has had in the conditions of life and the welfare of the citizenry, in the conditions of work and in the sustainability of the welfare state. In short, words to congratulate you on the two labor reforms. But, in what you have to see with expenditure content, I think that today the debate is interesting, especially at two levels: in your vote in favour, in this case, of Convergence and Union, to the Law of Presuppositionary Stability of the People's Party, which followed, precisely, the mechanism for the financing intervention of the Generality, last year, and which followed and continues to feel a chance to plan expanded assumptions, which allow us to reconstruct the state of welfare in Catalonia. I honestly believe that it is not enough for Catalonia to have voted in favour of its support for the Law of Presuppositional Stability. And, before I go into the analysis of expenditure, I would like to remind the group of advisors and advisors that, in all discussions about assumptions, they remind us of the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, which, with the same will and firmness with which they went to the Congress to give support to it, can apologize for doing so and work for it, but speaking strictly of the debt. What we see in this assumption is that the rhetoric that austerity and retail policies were necessary to contain the debt and to contain the deficit was a deception and a failure. Today, the public debt of the Generalitat de Catalunya, that of 2015, that appears in the report, respects that of 2011 is increased a 41_per_cent, the major increment of the democratic history of Catalonia. And it is true that there are elements that they have to do with autonomous taxation, that are important and that need to be filled; but, even in the small recovery of the assumptions that we have had these years and, above all, in the example of the cities of change, that have made expanded assumptions, at the time that they reduce deficit and that reduce public debt, we see the major example not of a regressive autonomous fiscal policy, but, above all, of the fracities of an economic gamble, such as austerity, that took place before the state of welfare in our country. That's right, today, there's still someone who doesn't give a shit about the importance and positive that austerity was. Probably, it's no longer fashionable to give yourself shots to the pit, pointing to how it's retailed to Catalonia. But there are still members of the government today who are blocking all debate about a progressive taxation, which should allow us to start getting out of the limited situation in which public services are in our country. I will not go too far on the consequences of austerity policies on public services in Catalonia. I think that late Catalonia's citizenry may have made a good idea. But I would like to highlight three or four elements that I consider to be claus: a 21_per_cent breakdown of the education assumption between 2010 and 2014, a 16.7_per_cent breakdown of the health assumption between 2010 and 2014 and a 61_per_cent breakdown of the housing assumption at an extraordinary time of housing emergence in the history of Catalonia and a 40_per_cent breakdown in the Occupational Service, at a time of unprecedented labour emergence in our country. I think these details and the management model that was imposed are still a loose one, in Catalonia. And it shows the fact that, in most concepts – in education, in sanitation, in housing – we are still half way back to recover the macroeconomic data we had before the crisis. And this is the picture of the 2015 report: a 2015 in which the FLA was at zero_per_cent of interest and allowed, after three years of destroying the welfare state in Catalonia, to take a little air and get out of a little of a disastrous economic and fiscal policy, ineffective and erosive for the welfare of public workers and, above all, the city of Catalonia. And, today, we're talking about assumptions, even though it's 2015's, but we're at a time when it would be nice to be talking about the assumptions of 2019, I wouldn't like to stop referring to the Jordi Pons syndic's particular vote, because I think it marks two management elements that are priorities in a discussion about the future assumption and model in Catalonia. He said: "The General should carry out a thorough analysis of the state of expenditure commitments acquired in the course of future exercises. The famous "shadow tolls", which were deepened during the political and presuppositional culture of the real estate cylinder and which allowed not to count as due the expenditure on public investments. A financing mechanism that, today, causes Catalonia to have a hidden debt of about 30,000_million euros, which, in particular, we could highlight in public works like the famous line 9 of the metro, which went from a assumption of about 2,400_million euros to an estimated assumption of almost 16,000_million euros. While Mr.Artur Mas remained there, when he was a councillor at the head of Mr. Jordi Pujol, he set up a work helmet and inaugurated the works on line 9 of the subway, taking advantage of the campaign to be a presidential candidate. It has come that they can last a decade, but I think it would be good to assume that the arrival of the retailers and of the unjustified costs to Catalonia would have an end point. And the second particular vote he makes, which I believe is crucial: "The union should analyse the forms of public-private collaboration, monitor whether they conform to the law and evaluate in each case its suitability before alternative forms, and make a serious warning about the cost of its use. We believe that this recommendation, together with the public hearing of the debtors, must govern the commitment of the previous Generality. The total or partial privatisation of public services has not only been a nil of corruption; it has also been a way to devalue public workers and the quality of our public services. You have to tell them, to whom still today from the government defend the arrival of the retails, privatizations and precariousness as a model for Catalonia, who take note of the president But and take a step to the canto, or two, and allow us to rebuild the state of welfare in this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.258.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now back to the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.259.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members, Members, Syndicate, Syndicate, the general account is the process, it is the last delay that closes all the presuppositionary cycle, after elaboration, approval in Parliament, execution and, finally, liquidation. The general account somehow goes to teach the final picture of that premise and, therefore, it's what allows us to evaluate the compliment of the assumptions, the presuppositional compliment. And in 2015, once more, the forecasts have not been met, nor much less; they have not been met. Neither the presuppositions nor the objectives of stabilization have been completed, that it is one thing to vote that there is a law of stabilization, but the other is then to apply it to the objectives of stabilization that some of them are the ones that pushed their approval. So no, that, not one, cap; there are the three phonementals, and there is absolutely not one. Are you surprised? No, it's not absolutely... for us, at least, it's no surprise. In fact, as I imagine all the people who have intervened, must have gone over the interventions in the debate on assumptions, the debate on the totality of the assumptions of 2015, and there as a minimum the People's Party already saw in a clear and clear way that those assumptions presented by the Councillor Mas-Colell at that time, those assumptions were a scam, because beyond what is said to be compliatory in those assumptions it could be completed. And now we see the general account and we see that, effectively, everything they give us is complete. For example, the deficit target – and this will also have to sound to the Aragonese Councillor, because we have not talked about it on different occasions – the deficit target for 2015, forecast: 0.7_per_cent of GDP. And the counselor said to us: "Listen, it is that he would touch us 1,62_per_cent. Reality: 2.87. That is, if the problem is not the deficit object, the problem is not the deficit object that you would want to have to spend more than you have! The problem is that at the time of truth they do not complete one thing or the other – not one thing or the other. Res, a small deviation of 5,900_million more expenses than no entrances. Indebtedness forecast: 67,200 at the end of 2015, according to the assumption. Real: 74,500_millions, consequence of the deficits, obviously, of the accumulated deficits. As a percentage of GDP, the debt target was 34.5; the real was 35.7. Well, let's just turn around. The rule of spending. Purpose: to increase as much as 1,3_percent of GDP. The reality: expenditure increases by 10.3_percent more than GDP. And then advisors come to us and say, "Listen, we can't pay the extra pay to the workers so we don't complete the expense rule. But it's if they don't fill it out anyway! If the problem is here! The problem is not the limits to the rule of expenditure; the problem is that the government is little strict with its assumptions, it is little strict with its expenses. Clearly, and that's why we find ourselves in this situation. Consequences of all this: deterioration of the romants of treasuries. If in the year 2014 the romants of treasuries were of 2,000_million euros negatios, in the year 2015 are 2,500_million euros negatios. It is an inevitable consequence of the lack of presuppositional rigour. Investments.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I quote because I think it puts figures in the dimension, huh? , of the tragedy in the matter of investments. Real investments executed for the Government of the Generality, year 2015: 330_millions – 330_millions. Previous inversion payments, deferred: 430_millions. But, of course, after they don't come to us they can tell us: "That's what's wrong, I don't know what I don't know how many. No, but if all this payment was from an Initiative government, it was a government from before Puem. If they were in the government! , just like the Socialist Party. This is the invoice of the tripartite, 430_million euros is the invoice of the tripartite. Displaced expenditure: 1.330_millions; has improved significantly. Let's just stick to two things, and I'm done fast. Importance – said the major syndic, we repeat – of the cost and return of the services to be able to make an assessment. And then, as concluded: little rigour in the elaboration of assumptions, little rigour in the execution; and put into evidence what is also in evidence in the report of the union: the delicate financial situation of the Generality, resulting in this lack of rigour in the elaboration of assumptions and consequence of the lack of rigour in the execution. Our group will abstain...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.260.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.261.0	... – I end by expressing the vote, President – it will abstain in the approval of the account, but we will vote in favour of the report of the union and the recommendations made by the union that are addressed to the Government. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.262.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Antoni Castellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.263.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Vice-President, Deputy Mayor, Syndics, Members, Members, in fact today's debate and the vote's motivation is above all the general account, if the general account is reliable and, therefore, also the report of the union. Therefore, this is what this Member will do and, in fact, give an answer to the different observations made by the union. Before I went in there, but... I'm saying because in the debate that we had anticipated, there's been more of a presuppositional liquidation debate than a general account in terms of how we're discussing it as a result of the union report. But in any of the cases it is surprising that, for a band, there are deep criticisms of austerity and detail, at the time that it is critical of the failure to compliment the deficit, knowing – and it is obvious – that the assumptions of 2015, exceeding 70_per_cent, were social expense. For that matter, or one thing or another. And of course what's found is that, of course, what are we going to find out now? , the Government of the Generality, the Administration of the Generality is poorly financed. And in a situation of poorly financed recession, intervention of public finances, expenditure limitation, but maintaining a presumption that its 70_per_cent is social expenditure. For that matter, or one thing or another. But in any case I will refer to it, and for the time we have, in the observations. The important thing is that from our parliamentary group we will announce in advance our stated vote both on the accounts and on the report of the union and on its recommendations. In fact, the relevant – the major syndic said – is that the accounts show a faithful image of the assets, of the generality's financial situation at 31 December 2015, but they do make a series of observations. And he's actually complaining if it's dues, and I'm advertising that yes, they're doing dues. In fact, if I quickly review the observations, with number 3, I find that the general account of 2016 already includes the pending payment of the emphyteutic censuses of the General Administration, of the CatSalut and of the consolidated. Therefore, this has already been done. With regard to the exceedance of the maximum legal deadline of thirty days, provided for in the legislation on late payment, which is observation number 12, it is also found that the general account of 2016 reduces a provision by liability for the import of claims for the administrative way of delay interested, and they have also registered as deserved the imports claimed by the judicial way. On the other hand, it should be noted that in the period of fiscal year 2016 these days of morosity are 28.9 days; therefore, much lower or a significant reduction before the fifty-four days of 2015. Also to note that the subrogated prestecs of the Cadí Tunnel have integrated into the general account of 2016. And respect the observation number 15, respect the lack of distinction between the affected and unaffected novelist in the state of consolidated three-time novelist, note also that in the general account of 2016 a new departure is incorporated in the memory of the General Administration related to the code of expenditure with affected and finalist financing, with the detail of the rights recognized net and the obligations recognized net in each funding code, and identify the correspondents positive and negative deviations of financing, which are also reflected in due course in the assumption result and in the novelist of three-time. Reference has been made, reference is made in observation number 19 to the new comptability plan, which, as you know, was approved by the order of June 29, 2017 and which came into force this 1st generation of this year. With regard to the recommendation to review the accounting of outstanding debts with the State of the negative settlement of the 2008 and 2009 financial years relating to participation in State entries, I also find that the outstanding debt has been recorded in the 2016 account. These are some of the observations, we understand, resolved in 2016. There are, for another band, other observations that, if you don't solve it, it does advance in the best in the same sense. The first and most important is observation in the field of..., number 6, which has to do with public-private operations, the German system. The year 2015 at the instància of the IGAE, as you know, adjusts the result on themes of national comptabilità for an import of 1,945_million euros. This obviously affected the deficit – we didn't talk about the change in criteria at the time. However, it must be borne in mind that in the successive years, and until the end of each contract, the budgetary expenditure derived from each contract will be adjusted for the part which is considered to be attributable to the ‘amortization of the activity, according to the same financing model calculated for the same IGAE for each operation. But beyond that, and with reference to the Pons syndic's private vote, you know that pre-tax measures have been introduced in any operation that is likely to be considered a public-private association. And this was done with the amendment of Article 76 of the Tax Measures Act 2017. Tanmateix, for which it makes the need to register in the economic comptabilitépatrimonial these acts, is previewed its integration coinciding with the entry into force that this year was in the new accounting plan 2018 and, therefore, in this exercise. With regard to the expenditure not charged, which is mostly in the field of salvation, although we share that it is an inappropriate practice, it is that it is a matter of identified expenditure which is in the register of invoices and the generality's financial comptability and which is obviously taken into account in the calculation of the national comptability deficit corresponding to the exercise in which it is carried out. In observation No. 18, which refers to the lack of recourse to the elaboration of the cost-reasoning memory, cost comptability, also reflect that general intervention is very conscious of the need to deepen in the cost comptability and, in fact, with this objective you plan to boost the current mode of evidence that is being managed in the Interior Department and in some autonomous bodies. But it is true that, until there is a mandatory character application at the joint administration, there can be no full cost memorization. Despite that, the new wording of Article 81 of the Public Finance Act no longer provides for this memory. This does not take the will of the Government and the intervention to advance in the development of an analytical cost comptability. In observation number 20 he was aware – and the General Intervention is aware – of the need to advance in the integration of inventories managed by the General Directorate of Heritage and comptability, and he planned to attempt a greater integration between the economic information of the inventory and the accounting records. We also know the honourable Members that, respecting the lack of agreement between the material immobilization area and the assets of the Catalan Health Service and the ICS, we understand that we also need to put in place the conciliation work done until now in the framework of the Accounting Commission established for such an effect at its time and which has advanced for which, as I said, to consolidation between..., the lack of agreement, as I said, with the Catalan Health Service and the ICS, especially. Finally, two more observations in which here we would probably have a discrepancy. It is the 24, respect to the reference that the Administration of the Generality has not registered any pass to cover the deficiency of the contract program with the ATM, the Authority of Metropolity Transport. Caldria comment that the obligations, in our opinion, are not generated by the agreement of the beneficiaries of the transfers. There is no requirement to register a pass until the corresponding administrative act is produced, in this case, by the Administration of the Generality. Finally, in comment 25, in relation to the accounting impact of contractual changes on the road routes of C-31, C-32 and C-33, in this case, the general intervention understands that there is no need to register a provision, provided that, if there are possible modifications, the Administration will compensate them by mitigating the setting-up of an additional period of contract duration and, therefore, very likely will not involve any type of disbursement. In any of the cases, Mr President, I find that we will vote, as I said to the original, the report and the recommendations, still have announced that most of these recommendations are resolved or are well on the line of better to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.264.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return now, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Narcis Clara.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.265.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members of Parliament, Major Syndicate and other members of the Union of Accounts, after attending various meetings in parliamentary committee, I can say that the reports presented by the Union show excellent work and great professionalism. As the General Account of the Generality is related to the economy of the country, from the outset I will examine very briefly what was the economic context in Catalonia in 2015, and then, in one part, I will make a more specific reference to what the General Account is, trying not to overstep the arguments given by the Member before me, even though it will not be entirely simple. At the global level, the price of oil this year, in 2015, is considerably lower and the euro is depreciated in relation to the dollar, and thus helps the competitiveness of Catalan companies in the face of foreigners. After the crisis that erupted in late 2008, the macroeconomic data of 2015 will show a better respect for those of previous years. The Catalan economy, with a GDP growth of 4.1_per_cent, shows a greater dynamism than the Spanish and the world; in the current situation, it certainly increases at a rate of 3.1 year-on-year, it respects 2.5 of the Spanish. The industry grew at a rate of 2.7_per_cent; today it does it at a 2.0, it respects a 1.3 of the Spanish. The exports of goods and services will increase by 4.8; in the present time it does so to 1.8, it respects 3.2 of the Spanish, although it should be noted that in 2017 Catalan exports represent 25.57_percent of exports from all over the State, and the percentage of the population was only 16.1. Tourist spending increases by 4.1 – I am speaking, obviously, of 2015 – but at present it does at a rate of 6.3, it respects 2.7 of the Spanish language. In the end, the weather is down by 9.1 compared to 2014; at present, the weather rate has dropped by 16.5 and is 10.63, for 14.55_percent of the Spanish, almost four more points. In Catalonia, one of the most significant events, that year, was the restoration of the extra pay, which meant about 600_million euros of external expenditure, with a medium salary increase of 6.4_per_cent, which, added to a 1.6_per_cent that assumed the return of the fourth part of the extra pay of 2012, meant a medium salary increase of 8_per_cent for public sector staff. I mean, there was a great effort. In the section on fiscal stability, express that the deficit of 2015, certainly, crazy 2.87 of GDP, and surpassed the prefixed shield. Now, who's responsible for this diversion? This is due to the fact that half of the deviation respects the crazy forecast deficit due to the extraordinary adjustment of investments in public associations deprived of previous exercises, which is related to the payment in different inversions. This procedure does not only allow postponing the payment, but also does not account for it as public expenditure until it is paid in the future. Commitments for future services can be mitigated or even cancelled, but in change, the structured ones are commitments with the investment carried out, and it is much harder to deal with the effects. Just one example: the concession of the C-17, which had a clause of patrimonial responsibility of the Administration. To the payment for structured investments we have to add the non-recurring operations, like now the Planic of Works and Services of Catalonia, which they generated in years before 2010 calls for help that were not held in presuppositionary credit forecasts. In short, 2015 was attributed to the Generality deviations with a long-term origin. The conclusion is that, without these two factors, the recurrent deficit would almost be the same as 2013. In the fiscal sphere, the State sabotaged all of the Generality's intentions to get us tickets from our taxes, with the manifest objective of holding the monopoly of taxation, so that the Government of the Generality is seen in the obligation to make more adjustments and, on the other hand, that of the State may even increase the expenditure. Today we know that the trend of the public deficit is clearly positive, given that 2016, mad at 0.95_percent of GDP and 2017 at 0.58, is to say, a reduction of 67_percent and 39_percent respect the previous year, respectively. The public deficit has been reduced with a great deal of effort, reducing current expenditure and with strong budgetary control. Another possibility, figurative people, but very real, would be to increase admissions, because our country, Catalonia, generates these resources. All of you have understood that I am talking about tax balances, that is, the difference between what we have in transfers, infrastructure or services and the taxes that citizens and businesses in Catalonia pay. This difference, always negative, causes the fiscal deficit in Catalonia to become structural. There are various methods to calculate it and, consequently, to evaluate the same concept, it does so by calculating it with different algorithms. Natural language, which each of us uses to relate and communicate with its surroundings, is not always in biunivocal correspondence with technical language, and this is not a case. The method of monetary flow with the neutralised deficit is a very objective method, since it considers that the only beneficiary of expenditure is the territory where it is made. Moreover, it is very credible, as long as they use the European Union and the United States of America, for example. With this method the Generality fixed a fiscal deficit for 2014 at 16.570_million euros, i.e. 8.4_percent of GDP. In 2018 data, and assuming that this percentage is maintained, the deficit would be around 18,746_million euros. Taking the given, even though out of date, from 2014, every day of Catalonia leaves about 40_million euros. Only if we stop this flow for two weeks, can we build enough educational centers as to eliminate all prefabricated modules. After this brief description of the economic state of our country, and before going over the 2015 general account in a nutshell, I would like to express an excited record for political prisoners and exiles, and especially for Joaquim Forn, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull and Jordi Sánchez, four men of integrity. [[applause]] – three are councillors and three are deputies – who have decided before so much injustice, and twelve days ago, to declare themselves in a place of fame. As I said before, a record for all of them. With regard to the 2015 general account, a lot has already been said; I would like to add, therefore, that four observations of 2014, of 2016 have been resolved, as well as partly another one, have been corrected. It's been getting better, year after year; maybe not at the speed we'd all want, but the effort and the results are there. The complexity of the comptability makes it possible to state that progressing properly is already a very important value. Perhaps there has been no comment, and I will say this explicitly: the report also points to the best that has been achieved with respect to the previous report. The refundable beasts of the General Administration of the Government of Catalonia have been included. Two: the import corresponding to the tax on deposits in credit institutions has been cancelled. Three: have been incorporated into the Generality's comptability the subrogated presets of Tabasa, Infrastructures. as well as Serveis of Mobility. Four: the general intervention recorded the loss of financing produced in the year 2014 for the purchase of four farms. Five: CatSalut has reclassified under the heading ‘Non-presupposed creditors 271_millions. And yes: the general intervention has provided a provision of 380_millions to deal with possible compensations that may arise if the contract has to be settled with the current concessionary of the management of public services of the Ter-Llobregat network. Well, some other improvements that have been implemented during 2016 and 2017 are that the adjustment is being made corresponding to the multi-year commitments corresponding to the outstanding shares of equipment leases, as well as the consolidation of works worth 850,3_millions, and only remain to reconcile the works of the Hospital Trias prior to 2018. To conclude, reiterate that our parliamentary group supports all the recommendations and observations made by the union in order to improve the General Account of the Government of Catalonia. That's the way forward. Obviously, add that we will vote affirmatively on the accounts and the union report. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.266.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Rodriguez, you asked to vote separately, I understand that the 1st point for a band and the rest of it, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. [[(Long break. Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.) Tell me, Mrs. Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.267.0	Also to ask for a separate vote, but it would be the 1, on the one hand – i.e., 1.a, 1.b, it will have to be – and the 2, on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.268.0	Okay. Therefore, in accordance with this, we will take three votes: 1.a, 1.b and 2. [[Pause.]] Let's get to the vote, then. We will vote on the two subpoints and the point separately; that is to say, first we will vote on point 1.a. The vote begins. Point 1a of the Opinion on the General Accounts for the financial year 2015_has been adopted by 61 votes to 56 abstentions. Let's just move on to vote point 1.b. The vote begins. The 1.b_point was approved by 81 votes to 36 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point two. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously, that is, 117 votes in favour, against and abstentions. There are no more points to vote. Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. Before, however, to aggravate the presence and the work to the Union of Accounts and to the Chief Syndicate. Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the status of squadron and bomber body seedlings]] [[300-00050/12]] The next item on the agenda is the question to the Government about the situation of squadron and bomber body plants presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. Mr Joan Josep Nuet's speech. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.269.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good night, deputies and deputies... "I'm a hit. I'm a botifler. I'm a hero. I'm traitors. That's what I was told a few days ago, and I went on to say: "We're just moving and we want to do our job. This is a brief summary of a move, but I'm sure we could talk to a lot of the moves that took place this late at the Gran Via de Barcelona, and maybe they'd say things to us like that. The squadron moves are in sight. It's a fact and it's a reality. And in this inquiry, counselor, I want to speak under two points of view. The first, the political background, this morning we treated it a little, it's worth deepening-there. And the other, the work situation of the moves and the bombers, which I don't know how the meeting went that they had with the various departments to the Generalita this late, and I'm sure they can tell us now to see if we've advanced a little in their claims. Let's go to the political arena. A few days ago he presented this book to Barcelona. The book is said Our Police. The author is the company Jaume Bosch, who is a person who is deeply acquainted with the history of the Mosso d'Esquadra and the policies of security and its evolution in the various years in Catalonia. In this book company Jaume Bosch reminds us of the history of the Squadron Mosses, and tells us that not always the Mosses were like now, there was a time when they weren't there. And at that time that the Mossos were not there was a debate to the Catalan society, Mossos yes or Mossos no, if the Mossos were to be formed in the police of Catalonia or in Catalonia the police would have to follow the National Police and the Civil Guard. In Catalonia there were then thirty years ago minority opinions that said that the Mossos were not the future, and also more majority opinions in the Spanish State that did not want Mossos in Catalonia, flying to Catalonia National Police and Civil Guard. Some say Mossos in to folkloric yes, for the president of the Parliament or the president of the Generality, and Mossos may also inside Catalonia, but this from Mossos to all Catalonia as the integral police of the country, of course! And, therefore, all of us here, deputies and deputies, but also the government and the various councillors who, at the length of these thirty years ago, have been interior councillors, bring this history to their grave, because the Mossos have turned into something that they were not, but they are now, the police of Catalonia, perhaps the one who says the title of this book that has various intentions: Our police. Therefore, this is a fact with which some are not comfortable. Some would like to return to the police models of thirty years ago that we inherited from the Franco era, a repressive police and a militarized police. And, sometimes, we have been reminded of the managements of Mr Jorge Fernández Díaz in front of the Ministry of Interior of the People's Party Government creating a political police and aiding the Mossos of the CITCO and also of Europol in full alert 4 anti-terrorist. What a big irresponsibility! Now, counselor, we don't understand – and I am telling you with all the sincerity of the world – we don't understand that we are in this debate watching public statements by the President of the Generality and the Councillor of the Interior asking questions about the professionalism of the actions of the Squadre Moissos. Because these statements fuel the planned and premeditated contempt, I repeat: planned and premeditated, against the body of nostalgics who would want the loss of these powers on the part of the Government of the Generality, whether it is via 155 or going back to the police model of thirty years ago that the extreme right likes it so much. Therefore, there is much to be watched by what is said, counselor, I hear counsel from the Interior and I feel President of the General when we talk about public security policies we have to count up to five before making controversial statements. That didn't happen to you, it happened to more counselors, and it happens to deputies and deputies. Therefore, it is a human error, and I am pleased that you yourself, before the commandments of the body and the same president of the Generality, have recognized this error and made a public correction because it is wise to rectify. And, therefore, the Mosses, we must remember that they achieved two things. In the times of Barcelona and Cambrils, the world recognized them as an effective police force, and the Moisos before the world became an integral police force, also before many people who put flowers in the cars of the Moisos d'Esquadra and who this book, if they put this title of Our Police is because many people said at the end of August that that was their police force. But I have to tell you that a lot of people were very envious of this, and that some people in Madrid who still had the idea that maybe one day the Mossos won't be there and will make the National Police and the Civil Guard look good. And also October 1st, because the proportional action in which he prioritized coexistence on the part of the Mossos also launched a message from the world, and the message was: "There is a democratic police in Catalonia, and, in change, there is no other person who wants to vote that is not democratic. And I can assure you that a lot of people also did a lot of harm and a lot of envy. And there are people who don't forgive them, at the Mossos, these things. And if Major Traper and the other Commandments of the Squad are as they are, that's why, for a model of success, for some pretty girly things. And so, please, this government doesn't make a mistake at the time of helping to put the Mossos in the middle of the target, which will already make other political forces and other interests. We, with our police and defending the Mosso d'Esquadra, although obviously the Mosso d'Esquadra can make mistakes. I'll talk to you about it now. Public order, it is the responsibility of the Government of the Generality. Public order, we don't have to see it as a repressive theme. The public order in a democratic society is the guarantee of rights and freedoms, and the police have an obligation to guarantee rights such as that of assembly, of demonstration or of expression. And "they're all the opposite of guaranteeing rights and freedoms, it's conceiving the police and public odor forces as an element of control and as a political element of control of people's opinions. And so, obviously, we can't afford that. The Socialist Party, which is not mistaken, intervenes with the Mossos d'Esquadra, and it will sink into the joint venture of the Catalan society. This is not the solution. I'm glad that, from the card exchange between the minister and the councilman, you've re-elected the dialog and you've re-elected the agreement, as it couldn't be any other way. And, therefore, we defend this path from the tension that we should never have reached. The operations of September 29, October 1, Girona and Terrassa have been reviewed. But the moves have internal protocols and procedures to do that. And, therefore, what you do – what you do – with the delicate hand you need. And, if there are moves that must be removed from the service, let them depart, because they have not done so well. Like all the work, if you don't do well, you're in trouble. Now, to pose and say that the conjunction of the Squad Squad Squad is the problem is a hard mistake, or to make it clear that it is not meant to say. Because this way we don't help the service. In my second intervention, I'll talk about the work situation of movers and firefighters, because I don't want to leave, and because it's a very important issue, but in this first one I wanted to focus on this story. Whoever loses the history of the Mosso d'Esquadra doesn't know where he is or where he is going, and the government of the Generality can ignore this history.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.270.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.271.0	I'm starting with this first package. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.272.0	Thank you, Congressman. Counselor of Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.273.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Actually, the proof that we haven't called is that I ran more. First I'll talk, because I'll have a little bit of an agreement that we have jobs, spell them out, explain them. And in any case, I would then make political appreciation. In any case, on our arrival at the Department of Interior, last June, we found ourselves with two already open labor negotiations: the correspondents in the field of firefighters and in the field of movements. Despite the precariousness of the presupposition situation and before we got out of 155 and with a casket tank that was all produced just after this summer, we resumed these negotiations that were already done months ago. After a whole series of meetings with the union representatives of these collections, the situation at the date of today is the following, and the detail – the meeting with the bombers was yesterday, precisely –: for what it does to the bombers, the Interior Department presented yesterday to the union representatives of the Bombers Cos a proposal or relationship of working conditions of the functional bombers of the Generality of Catalonia. Yesterday was the session of a negotiating group of the agreement between representatives of the Directorate General and the trade union representatives. In this line of negotiation, I myself, as the Internal Advisor, the Adviser of Digital Policies and Public Administration, as well as the Secretaries General of the Interior and the Department of the Vice-Presidentship and Economy and of Hisenda, have attended some meeting. The proposal presented is part of the recognition of the heavy faults of the body, and aims to normalize the situation of the Bomber Cos by the year 2022. Mitigating the revenue of a thousand new activities, the implementation of other better organizational and work careers, as well as the renovation of the clothing and equipment, the mobile park and the infrastructure. The government is committed to realizing within the corresponding budget framework and for the next four years, calls for access to the Generality's Bomber Cos, concretely, 250 seats each year until they reach 1,000. In the same line, he offers the coverage of the internal promotion to various categories: 216 corporal seats, 98 sergeant positions, 100 officer positions, 25 subsinspector positions, and 7 inspector positions. The proposal included other measures for the establishment of an organisation, such as the repeal of Decree 74/2014, by day and hours of the Cos de Bombers. With regard to working hours, it is proposed to maintain the annual working day of 1,688 hours for the next three years, with the commitment to settle the 1,640 annual hours, the year 2023. To compensate for the structural deficit, the voluntary realization of additional days is proposed to the mandatory day, in three trams, to choose for each worker, with a remuneration for an additional hour of a 17_per_cent over the day or the ordinary hour. The proposal also includes aspects such as the better pay for overtime, the professional career or the reactivation of the Commission from the second activity, among others. While these areas are not included in the Agreement on Working Conditions, Interior accompanies this proposal with the appropriate compromise and renewal of the changing room, the mobile park, the equipment and the infrastructure and realization of works in various infrastructures, which, taking advantage of a similar session tomorrow, I suppose I can explain myself more and better in this chapter. This set of measures will allow the implementation of Project Bombers 2025, of the General Directorate of Prevention, Fire Extinguishing and Rescue. The union representatives of the Bombers took on the commitment to move the proposal to the body and give an answer as soon as possible. This is the proposal we made to them. For our part, we understand that this proposal is the result of the joint work of all the negotiators, representatives of the Department of Interior, as well as of the trade union organizations of Bombers, with the shared intention of overcoming a stage in complex management and recovering quality standards in installations and equipment that, as a result of the crisis of the past years, have been affected. So, too, I consider it essential to appreciate the collaboration and effort of the Department of Digital Policy and Public Administration, and of the Vice-President, Economy and History, who have participated in the whole negotiation. For what we do to the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S Since our arrival, we have held a total of thirty-seven negotiating meetings with different formats and representatives of the Department of Interior, with the union representatives of the representatives of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Last September, the Consell de la Policia celebrated that month, the trade union representatives presented a joint proposal for negotiation, composed of fifteen claims related to the working conditions of the collective. Of these fifteen claims, there were some that were direct competence of the Interior Department, but there were no others, the vast majority, that could not be resolved by the Interior Department alone. Despite this reality, the Interior Department took over as its own claim platform and proposed working together with the unions to ensure that this fifteen-point reality was a solution. Since then, a series of meetings have been held so as to advance in some of these points, and, on the other hand, the Department of Interior has directly promoted, with the collaboration or action of other departments of the Government, the actions necessary to make this platform a reality. As of today, I can report that the situation of these fifteen points of the platform is the following. For what makes matter the solution of which do not directly depend on the Department of Interior, which do not depend on us, but have a direct affect to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra: early retirement at fifty-nine years. The Department of Interior addressed the Ministry of State of Social Security in order to activate a procedure to allow this retirement, following the model that is being processed by other police, for example, local police. This secretary has given an answer that they are working on the reports, and an information that must be brought to us, and that we, as it were, have passed on to the unions. With respect to the lack of effect. The Interior Department, together with the government departments that are linked to this process, has begun the procedures to incorporate the 750-seat access call for the next year, a public offer that we trust is a very short-lived reality. She was accompanied by the petition we made to the minister at the September Security Board. Participation of the trade unions representing the Mossos d'Esquadra in the General Bureau of the Civil Service. This petition has been transferred to the competent organs of the Government, although at this time it is not a reality, to question, on the part of these organs, the possibility that in the legal framework the Mossos can be directly part of this table. However, the Interior Department will continue to work because this presence can be a reality as soon as possible. From the second chapter, from matters of competence to the Department of Interior, I can tell you that the payment of the Area device, was paid– 3,5_million euros– this month of November, and this month of December the corresponding imports will be paid to the inspectors. For what it does to the payment of the late payload train pending from the agreement 2008, it is in the phase of compliment, according to the preview in this agreement, since it has already occurred to the assumption of 6,7_million euros to do it the year that it sees. Setting up a Q5 quadrant for the whole thing – one more petition they had: it's closed and already signed with the unions. Actually, it was the traffic specialty that needed to get into the Q5, and that's it. Thus, the agreement for the Area is working on the ARSET, the Appen, the ARIC that are pending signature. Compensation for nights and holidays. The Department of Interior is paying the overnight price set to the agreement and compensation for week-ends by the end of 2017. Specific compensation was offered to the USC, the Citizen Security Unit, depending on the actual work, and work on all turns, especially rejected for all unions, but the negotiation is kept open. For the professional career plan of civic security units. The compliment of this claim, shared with the Department of the Interior, is of complex application, as long as it can carry out a background study of the issue and have a presuppositional availability. At this time, the study's work has begun with the hope of realising the presuppositional availability, but it is a compromise of the department and of this councillor, to pull forward this race plan and increase the import of the extraordinary time. As of today, there is a 32_per_cent increase proposal pending from the government's competent agencies. Third. Materials that jointly affect all of the Generality's functions and functions – it was that of the third white of these petitions that they made to us. The cent_per_cent of remuneration in case of IT, recovered from October 19th. The recovery of the extraordinary payments of the 13th and 14th, approved by the General Bureau of the Public Service, the recovery of the pay of 2013, to the 19th and 20th years, and the payment of the 14th, in the 21st and 22nd years, with possibility of reduction to three years, as announced yesterday. Recovery of the social action fund, pending agreement of the General Bureau of the Public Service. Complement of productivity, approved by the General Bureau of the Civil Service, the recovery of the years 2021 and 2022. Vals de menjadors: pending the agreement of the General Bureau of the Public Service. Personal assumptions: in negotiation from a possible internal specific solution for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. In summary, beyond the public positions that someone can lay down, I consider that the facts that I represent today are clear; they are not words, they are made in these five months, and they show the bargaining will of the trade union representatives of Bombers, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the Department of Interior. This is the proposal with the forecast of resources for the presuppost 2019 that we have. It's not what I want, obviously, or what the unions want, but it's one more step, and now it's all going to depend on what contributions you can make.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.274.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the return, again, of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.275.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, you know this intervention is on record, huh? And that a few days later we'll get the record back, we'll be back together with syndicates and non-union moves, because you know that there's a very important move, we could say, from ‘movements undertaken, to say in some way, that's what it is, in some way, being part of these moves. First message: you have to agree, you have to negotiate and you have to agree, and in order to agree calen calers, therefore, you have to support the government's joint venture, because, obviously, there are aspects that go beyond the first competitions of the Interior Council. But to the political fact that he explained before, if we add the fact that after six years of freezing plants and retailing, we add this, we have a Molotov cocktail. And we need to deactivate this fact, because we're in front of an element, the Squad Mousses and the Generality Bombers, which are a foundational structure, which is in the political vantage point. And, therefore, not an effort, they must make an over-effort. Obviously, of the fifteen points of the union platform, we could say, now I could remember some things, and I'm going to remind them. We're going to follow up, because they won't be able to make it, but they can't get out with the empty hands of this negotiation. They must have the assurance that they can conclude an agreement on their own weeks, and that the government will guarantee that agreement. And obviously, on the part of this parliamentary group, in this presuppositional aspect, they will have our full support. Because we're already carrying a load and compromise, which obviously, Councilman Jané, on his day, tried to pull forward, the application of 155 stopped, and at this point we have to grab this witness, because six years is a long time. Of course, we're talking about unpaid foreign payments. That, not just the moves and the bombers, but the conjunction of you will work. We're talking about the spread of hours for good subjects, which is something that sticks a lot to the template. We're paying the price for the foreign hours, you've already made a proposal, I won't mention it, it's a negotiation and end up agreeing, because we need foreign hours. And until we have the template for these 750 moves, which won't come to us right now, but we're going to start typing it in between a year, we have to pay extra hours, because we're still on alert 4 anti-terrorist, and with a template that has a much less effect, and so on, than the operating moves, because we have a lot of low and in situations that can't be working. We're working with 14,000 moves, a little more, when we need more than 18,000 moves, and that means we're already, in many places in the territory, in col·lapse situations. And that when there are three accidents, the Mosses may be able to attend to one or two, not three, because they no longer arrive. And, therefore, this time of hope means that the staff of Mossos and Bombers will be asked one year, or two, or three, to reach a point of normality in their labor relations. How do we make them last one, two or three years in these conditions? With an agreement, they are economic aspects of better working conditions. That this move, that has a grain that is twelve years old, that has made it a thousand times, gives it a new grain. He doesn't ask anything more than to give him a new grain, because he deserves it to do his job. That this move, that when in the morning it pushes to the car of Mossos, and this car already has the wheels that can be taken, and that would not pass the ITV, it has a new car to the police station, because it is essential to do its work. And this move, that they trick him and say to him at any time: "You have to come, you have to turn around, you have to go here, you have to go there..., have compensation for these holiday days and for these hours absolutely sketched out, with a situation of insufficient staff. And the bombers, the same one. Maintenance of fire stations. Necessary. Some of them are pretty fucked up, counselor. You know that, don't you? Vehicles and equipment, but also helmets, gloves, pants, shoes, air equipment. Things that look small and aren't worth so many calers, but a bomber, if he doesn't have them on condition, so, really, he finds it very bad. Of course, you know that the moves require salary equipping with the bombers. I have to say. And you know that in the strategic plan approved the year 2016, in the topic of bombers we predict an investment of 207_million. I'm not talking about new commissioners anymore, I'm not talking about our bombardment parks, which have major words, but we shouldn't talk about that either. But these things are necessary. I'm done. The journalists' union makes a claim to us that the Mosso d'Esquadra operatives also think that there are workers who are photojournalists, and that there is no right to be in the middle of a conflict doing their job and doing good photographs. Counselor: "Facts and no words...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.276.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.277.0	He's the one who's asking for the moves, he knows. And, therefore, this phrase of the moves I make today my own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.278.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, it's the counselor's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.279.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. "Facts and don't say I think that's what I've tried to explain, right? Of the fifteen points of claim, concretely in the case of Mossos, twelve are already resolved or are in lives of resolution, and three remain, and it is precisely the three that..., three that do not depend on us. Then, when the fifteen-point proposal was made to us, we separated them into three: one that fell on us, on the Interior; one that fell on the Government of the Generality; and a third that fell on others, for example, on the State. Of those who depend on us, on the Interior, all are resolved or in lives of resolution. And there's three of us left, which we're not hanging on, which depend on others and other decisions that I've tried to detail before. I... I have to tell you the truth, as we have found it, it was very, very complicated, and as we have found it is very complicated, and the more we have had the opportunity to manage the assumption of Sant Joan from this year until October 3rd, that there was the boxing. So let's just say we've had a little, a little bit of execution, huh? , presuppositional execution time. However, there is a figure that I remember, which is 5,300,000 euros, that we have invested in one month; that of Mossos I don't remember, but we haven't been standing; therefore, there have been facts. Therefore, before the labor claims there have been facts; before the material claims, which are not only labor claims, because we can only say that the Bombers Cos and the Mosses Cos only think of their self. It's not true. Think of your son, but also think of all the needs they have and all the infrastructure they need to give a better service to Catalans and Catalans. Therefore, they are concerned, they and they are obviously concerned about working conditions, but also about all the material and tools they need. I admit to him that it's true that here for a long time he's been asking himself about the whole Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. And, if you look at it, let's just say that we've been in political groups for a long time, especially in the Spanish State, that attack four pillars of this country, right? , which are: the school, the teaching, the idiom and the Squad Mossos. And, therefore, they felt alone for a long time. Plus, right now we have seventy-four police officers prosecuted for October 1st, in an unfair way, I believe. But you already know that on this subject, I look at not intervening-there, just like what happened yesterday with the prosecution, with this complaint or apparently complaint that there is, because I think I'm doing a little favor to Cos, and here I don't look at getting in there, I just remember. But it is true that, if the security and emergency of this country, of Catalonia, the Squadron Mosses and the Bombers were to be judged for the work they have done and the precariousness they have had at the length of these years, I believe that what we should do is to put all the pressure on ourselves and applaud them all and every one of them, because they have made an effort with spectacular pressure. Let the local police, the local police, and the civilian protection people. People who, like us, are public servants but they do more, that they are willing to give something more than we give each day, that is their vital security. And they are... they and they are able to face the adverse and complicated situations ahead of their lives to save the lives of others. And they've done this long ago with a precarious work situation, with a situation of tools and instruments that they need to do their job, precarious, and more they've followed and given their faces, and they've had all the media pressure, including judicial pressure in the case of Rocket Mossos, spectacular, and they've followed and they've continued to give their faces. And they and they are the people who today guarantee the safety of everyone and every one of us for a lot that some, and I said this morning, want to create the false relationship that they are political police or that they are a system of political emergencies, it's not like that – it's not like that. They're people who are serving everyone and every Catalan and Catalan and I personally have no pride in them. But I think that all of us should feel very proud and give them infinitely thanks to all of these people who have given their faces to us, who have saved our lives, who are old for our security with a situation in which the Administration has not been up. Therefore, to all of them many thanks; and thanks for the question he asked me. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-12-2101.280.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more to deal with today. We suspend the session until tomorrow at two-quarters in the morning. Thank you very much.
