ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.1.0	Let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government on fiscal policy]] [[300-00032/12]] The next item is the question to the Government on fiscal policy, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The question is put to the honourable Member, Alicia Romero, when she is present.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Vice-President, Councillors, Members and Members, I hope I will not abhor you in this debate on fiscal policy. As the counselor told me the other day, they're there... repeated records, right? because it's true that these dates are coming and we're all thinking about the assumptions, and so also, in which fiscal policy the government will present us at... at this new stage. I wanted, before I started talking concretely about this, to talk a little bit about inequality. Surely one of the most troubling problems we have in recent times, not only in Catalonia or Spain, but also in the world, is inequality, isn't it? It has grown a lot during the crisis, it is true, and this element, which is affecting society in a very comprehensive way, so it has been a matter of study for many economists, has it not? Surely, therefore, the most recognizable was Piketty, which began with a study that ended with a book of more than seven hundred pages, which talked about inequality and how inequality affected equal opportunities and the economy. But from him, that it is true that he also had, therefore, constructive criticisms of his theses, so other economists and also other international organizations, have begun to study and work on how inequality is affecting society in a very general way. And, in this sense, the affect of different ways, the most unfair, and we will see, and I will explain later on, about the difficulties that there are, or how social mobility, that has been produced with greater ease, today is not so. And they're already telling us you're studying, like the OECD. Also inequality generates a more insecure society, not to say dangerous, but more insecure, and we see it in other countries, such as, for example, the United States or some of South America; it generates less democratic quality, too, less equality of opportunity, in a very clear way, but also less economic growth. That is to say, there are social and economic reasons that would lead us to work and fight against this inequality. The OECD's latest data put Catalonia in a very delicate situation, under Poland, under the middle of the European Union, and a lot of countries in which we are always admiring each other, right? : Finland, Sweden or Belgium, right? Much closer to us. Give the last studies we have 350,000 children in a poor situation. I mean, it's a very important number. Above all, why does this mean that it will be very difficult, if we do not make policies that attack this, that these children can get out of this situation in which they are and can have equal opportunities; opportunities that allow them, probably, to jump, to change class and to have access to a quality education, and then, also, to a good job that you then allow them to start a long, rich and happy way, right? To say the least. Some data tell us that the social ascent, which had worked in the 1970s and 1980s, no longer works that way. Spain is one of the countries with the lowest social mobility at this time. That is to say that inequality has clearly affected this. In the daily studies they have presented..., and the last one was that of the OECD a few months ago, that we will need four generations because those children who need in 20_percent of families with fewer resources can jump out of class. Four generations. That hadn't happened in a long time. Therefore, there are elements that should be reflected on how to fight this inequality, as I said very well, for social and also economic reasons. Inequality generates a very high level of inequality, which produces more social costs. And, therefore, more social spending. And this is an element that needs to be taken into account. It also reduces the prospects of the labour market or undermines consumption. Taking into account that 70_percent of our economy, of the modern world, has to do with consumption, so, obviously, this inequality is not positive for a country like Catalonia, and, obviously, therefore, neither for Spain. Therefore, we must fight against inequality, from the economic and social point of view. Piketty said, and so did his economic father, that the level of inequality is not an inevitable feature of a society, it is a political decision. I would like this Parliament, not just this Government, but this Parliament, to make the political decision to have, every once in a while, a less unequal society. And, therefore, what generations more equal opportunities for everyone. And that certainly means a lot of things. It means strategic investments in education, research, research, universities, intelligent infrastructure; it means employment policies; it means better than the minimum interprofessional wage, and it means, too, that it is what I want to talk about today, a more equitable, fairer, more efficient, more progressive tax model. Surely some of the answers that should be given to fight against inequality, are these. Today I will focus on fiscal policy, on the tax model, which seems important to me; above all, because in the last few years, unfortunately, we have not seen the Government of the Generalitat, in the later years, making a proposal for comprehensive tax reform. We have not seen a bold or ambitious proposal to change some taxes in the line of this progressive, which is being demanded, for example, by the OECD when it asks the countries with inequalities: "Please, better, change, reform your fiscal policy. And, therefore, this is one of our proposals and our requests, which we have made to the Government of the Generality for a long time. We could talk about two things: one, it would be the fight against fraud, and I would like to congratulate in this sense the councillor and the Tax Agency, who recently submitted a report on the tax gap, on the difference that we would have to collect tax, through taxes, and what we receive. Let's stop charging 800_million euros, that's a 26_percent difference. That means that there's a lot of margin still to work for the fight against fraud, to get those 800_millions that don't know– that don't know– because there's obviously someone who doesn't do things right and tries to evade tax. And they do, for example, only in the case of estates or estates, around 40_percent of people who make statements, right? And they do so, normally, because they end up, so, under-declaring – under-declaring – what they have or what they inherit. I, therefore, evade tax. Can this be solved? Surely, with more tax inspectors. Before, 100_per_cent of the shippers analyzed the property loggers. This is internalized to the Tax Agency, we hope that now also the cent_per_cent will be done by the Agency's inspectors, because it is very important that we review the cent_per_cent. Because this means 800_million euros, as the study commissioned by the Tax Agency said very well. This, obviously, is a matter that we must tackle in a very clear way. And the second, which we wanted to pay, is, on the part of taxes; but, in concrete terms, we wanted to talk about the imposition of inheritances. The inheritance tax is a tool and an instrument, for us, essential to fight against inequality and, above all, to fight for what this tax entails. Many times there has been talk of double taxation, inheritance tax; we do not agree, it is not a double taxation. He who inherits, pays once for that tax, is the first time he pays for that which inherits, therefore, there is no double taxation. If not, it would be the same thing that when we talk, for example, we pay VAT on a product, we would say, right? But it's just that I've already paid IRPF and I've already rejected less than I am in the vicinity of my own, so now I don't pay VAT. And we're not talking about double taxation here? So neither in the heresies. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's what economists say. Yes, Mrs. Pallarès, don't say that, I don't say, expert economists say, who have studied the inequality related to inheritance tax. And, therefore, there is no double taxation, heretofore this immobile and payment, on this for the first time. But, above all, what I believe for... I believe in a government of lefts or parties of lefts, like the Socialist, what really matters to me, of the inheritance tax, is that they do not generate equal opportunities. From the beginning, some people are born, or appear or have a wealth that will end up conditioning him to the length of his life. If we also want a fairer and more egalitarian society, what we have to try to do is that the equality of opportunity lies with everyone, but the one who has the most opportunity. And the students say that, too, the one who has the most, is easier to have a better education, a better cultural and social environment, that will allow him, too, to know his way to life better. Much more than the one that needs to be in a much more difficult and vulnerable situation. Therefore, the inheritance tax should be used to redistribute this wealth, to generate more equal opportunities. And this, for us, is the ultimate sense of the inheritance tax, so much so that it's spoken, to eliminate it, right? , mostly by some parties. A lot of economists say that, don't they? ,herences and donations between lives are the most important mechanism of perpetuation of inequality. So we believe that this cannot be allowed and, therefore, what we want is that this tax, somehow, can be modified. Moreover, this tax affects a very small part of the population. You think that, the richest 10_per_cent in Spain, has more than 50_per_cent of the wealth. I mean, when we talk about inheritance tax, we're not talking about everybody, we're talking about, in the end... if with the bonuses we're aware that the middle class and the most vulnerable the pay, so that a very small part of the population, but that much, whoever pays this inheritance tax is who. In part, this is already happening in Catalonia. I suppose Mr. Aragones will tell us that. But I think we need to make an effort to modify and analyse well the bonuses and exemptions that this tax has. Not just to recap, but to generate less inequality and redistribute it in favor of this. This is one of our proposals. Then I'll keep talking, but I think it would be worth thinking about a little bit more, beyond, many times, the pim-pam-pum, which we all do when we talk about fiscal policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The question is answered by the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.4.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It will advise, councillors, deputy, certainly, inequalities in income, which end up reproducing and ending up having consequences in the form of inequalities in opportunities, inequalities in the social sphere, inequalities in the field of salvation, is one of the elements that most concerns all governments, and obviously also concerns the Government of the Generality. For this reason, the Government of the Generality is responsible for a whole series of services which have as their object this reduction of inequalities, whether in the form of public services or in the form of monetary services, as may be the guaranteed income of citizens, the most outstanding, which has been approved in this Parliament, and which is a generational compromise, we can say, with those in our own right who do not have sufficient resources to lead a dignified life. And, obviously, it's a presuppositional compromise, guaranteed citizenship income. In fact, it is the services in the form of services or in the form of money transfers that makes it possible to reduce inequalities, doing so in a 28,93_per_cent. Taxes only reduce the market income by 2.5_per_cent. Therefore, it is in the area of expenditure that there is more capacity to reduce inequality, not so much in the area of revenue; which is certainly important, from the point of view of fiscal justice, which contributes more to the better, but what is important is to be able to spend. And, in this context, the spending capacity of the Government of Catalonia, as, therefore, is known for all of you, is strongly conditioned by the model of autonomous financing, a model of autonomous financing that, every year, the Government of the State calculates downwards and which then has to liquidate us. Let's get three or four exercises in which the outflow of finance – which is first forecast and after liquidation – is more than 1,000_million euros, and 1,000_million euros is more than the Department of Interior, it's four times the Department of Culture, it's... so the half of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, isn't it? Therefore, this is one of the first elements that condition the Generality's ability to spend: the bad forecasts of the General Administration of the State. Because he's been in different governments. When the 95_per_cent of your tickets come from this finance mark, both those that come first from the transfers of the State as those that come from the taxes that we have transferred, linked to the financing model, therefore, the ability to move, the ability to make the tickets more flexible to meet the expenses... And we need, we need to recover the current spending capacity, the investment capacity in this country. Obviously, we have this totally present, but when the margin is reduced, then we need to see whether this margin has been exhausted or not. And what we say is that, in good part, yes. Obviously, as in every presuppositional discussion, we are willing to talk about everything, also about the inheritance tax – also about the inheritance tax – and, therefore, we are willing to talk about whether some minor corrections should be made. It means that the inheritance tax, which is normally the Socialist Party's battle horse against the opposition in Catalonia, is often not when it governs. And I quote the agreement of this August passed in a neighbouring community, Aragó, in which there was an agreement between the Socialist Party, PP and Citizens, to reduce, precisely, the tax on successions, especially to higher returns. And, therefore, here the tax competition between territories is a problem – it is a problem, certainly. I'm just saying, uh... We think it's good to compare it to the last decisions of socialist governments in the matter of inheritance taxes. A inheritance tax that changed the year 2014, which was recovered for the higher assets, and which is not a winged element. When Mrs Romero said 'there was no tax reform, there was no tax approach in the past few years in Catalonia, I do not agree. And I don't agree because maybe what I was expecting was a law that contained everything. But, look, everything that has been done: the asset tax has been recovered, the asset tax has been recovered and the types have been pushed down, the minimum exemption has been reduced, we receive 40 per cent of all the property tax paid to the Spanish State. Surely, therefore, some Members of this chamber must consider that this is totally excessive; but, for another band, you see clearly the determination to make who else you have to pay: the 40_percent of the property tax that is returned to the Spanish State is done in Catalonia. And that was the year 2014. The year 2014 is recovered the tax of successions for the higher assets; the tax of capital transfers is increased in the last assumptions, precisely for the transmissions of housing or immovables, the higher ones, the superiors to 1_million euros; it does not affect, let's say, what these days is talking about the values of mortgages, eh? , from the people's commu. That's not it. But large capital transfers pay a higher rate to compensate for the non-distributive nature – on the contrary, which can precisely encourage inequality – of indirect taxes such as capital transfers tax. They've been pushing themselves in the environmental field. Therefore, the appeal, even though it has not been in the form of a tax reform presented all at once, but if we look at all the tax figures that have been planted in the past few years, then God does not have the appeal that we have made. I, in fact, can find formulas to continue collaborating in the Parliament of Catalonia. To the Parliament of Catalonia, if it is necessary, we can review some figures; we are not closed, to review them, are aware of the margin there is, are aware of what the impact recaptator over time is, that it is probably not immediately in the proper exercise in its major part, and that the major returns would come in 2020. But we'd be willing to talk about it. Second of all, we're also willing to talk about some changes that can be made that affect us. For example, the estate tax, which was abolished by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero and which later postponed this suppression, this insecurity has to end. Therefore, we have the opportunity to say: listen to me, the property tax is restored, and we do not have to depend, every year, that it is widened again, and this depends on the Congress of Deputies. And I think we can come to terms here. The other place where we have to agree? Taxes that are approved for this Parliament, that at these times are to the Constitutional Court appealed for the Government of the State, and that the Government of the State can withdraw the appeal. Some of these taxes claimed by the Socialist Group to the Parliament of Catalonia. Therefore, we can agree; therefore, the urge to agree, to exert its influence on who can withdraw these remedies before the Constitutional Court and, therefore, we will have more tax resources, that is, we will no longer have recourse to the Constitutional and we will have tax resources, resources in the form of money to finance public policies. So, we, obviously, are willing to talk to everyone about it. Now, there are some things we'll have to do if what we want is to have the most expenditure capacity. The first: we have to exclude from the spending rule some quantities, some quantities, which at these times are included, and which the People's Party has done with its Presuppositional Enabling Law. When you return debts, for example, to the staff of the Generality, you cannot compute this as a rule of expenditure, you should not compute, and therefore I believe that we must take a compromise of all folds, and we will bring it here to Parliament – yesterday the Conseller Puignero announced – so that he will exit from the computable expenditure, to the effects of the rule of expenditure, which, translated by commu of mortals, means: this topall of 2.7_percent increase in the maximum expenditure imposed on us by the State for the year you see, here is not to count the return of the external payments of the Generality. Let's get him out of here; let's get him out of here, and so we can free up a few resources that at these times, even though we have a better economic situation or a better finance model, we can't include. So, let's bring this. In short, we have a lot of way to go, and for this reason we will start a round of contacts with all parliamentary groups in the coming weeks. Let's wait, therefore, long enough to..., begin the week that you go to explain the concrete figures of the assumption of the Government of Catalonia, because precisely all this fiscal policy that we have been talking about must serve to give the state of welfare, to give the security of our country, to give the necessary investments in our country, and, therefore, we will go into detail in the next few days, of the concrete figures of each area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.5.0	Thank you, Vice President. It's the congresswoman's turn, by the way. Mrs. Romero, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.6.0	Okay. You said a lot of things, Mr. Aragones. I would like to say that when we talk about the inheritance tax or about inequality, the fight against inequality, how to generate new equal opportunities, we talk about a model of society. It is true that the way in which inequality can be attacked, I have already said, has different lives, but one is this, through taxation or through inheritance tax. We believe that it is important that there can be a reform, that we can... you have opened up to talk about it, and therefore we are happy, so that we can set up a table for ourselves, because we had not been so far, and that we can see what margin we have so that this tax can actually fight against inequalities, and can allow a redistribution. It's true..., he says: "Home, obviously, we won't get 2,000 million euros more. It's the same, it's not the subject. That is to say, the object is not to recapitulate more simply, but as we do, in a way, the origin and origin and the equality of opportunity of the one who does not represent an inheritance in relation to what the answer is, is it not? , which, obviously, plays with a very clear disadvantage. And that's what a Social-Democratic party has to want, right? , may everyone, though I see or see where I am, therefore, have the same opportunities. And that doesn't always happen, does it? To put it a given: 69_percent of the children who have pairs with university students go to college, and in change 56_percent of the children that their parents do not finish the cycle, the second cycle of primary, have a low level of education, right? It's adier, that, obviously and condition where you need to be. And, therefore, what we would like is to match it as much as possible because everyone has equal opportunities. And that, the inheritance tax clearly affects it, beyond what we can retrieve. So, it's a more modeling issue. Now, are we talking about entrances? Yeah. Finance system. We don't have a home because we've been unable, here and there, to negotiate a new system that should have entered the market in 2014. Now there's a working group out there, you know, counselor. You will not participate, he said people will go from his department, but it is important that if you work for a new model of Catalonia funding, then, while it does not happen to what you want, we will continue to work to improve the tickets that arrive, so, in this case of the State, for the benefit of the better quality of life of Catalans, right? The fight against the fraud is very important, when I said it before, in the study that you have made about which is the difference, isn't it? , the Bretxa, say, on the subject of taxation or recaptancy, clearly, with the tax of estates we are talking of 277_million euros that are getting away, a 41_per_cent. I in the case of assets 340_million euros. Yeah, we do get a lot, but, uh, that's a lot of money going on, too, huh? Or come on, here's a job to do, Mr. Aragonès. That is to say, only to put tax inspectors to see what system the tax agency has in order to be able to analyze each of its consignors, as the registrars do. I mean, here if we come in, right? , between the 340 and the 277 we do not go to 800_million euros without tax reform. Therefore, here too it is an element that we must attack and that should probably be prioritized in the proper assumptions. We would also like to talk about the IRPF, because we have probably made a lot of effort during the crisis to those who have less. And I say, for example, that we have talked a lot about this plethora, when you will work. It's a collection we've been working on and we've been working on. And even lower classes or more vulnerable workers could also improve that, right? , modify the IRPF and see if we can generate one more tram in which we ask for more effort. Why haven't we asked for more effort from the one who won the most, too? It is also a reflection that we want to pose on the table and that we hope, therefore, that we can talk about it. Of course we will help, as we are helping me grow many months ago, in everything that is in our hands because from the Government of the State Catalan requests are being listened to. And in this sense they know that we have withdrawn two resources of unconstitutionality. I think that's how it's gonna go. We have voted many of the taxes that have been approved here, for example, of bank deposits, I mean that we will obviously defend what we believe in, right? Now, we have to bet more clearly on green taxes, on environmental taxes. That I don't think they've prioritized so much and it'll be hot here, so make it a little bit of a hug. You also spoke later, Mr Aragonès, about the subject of the expenditure rule. He knows that the Government of the State wants to change the expenditure rule, it also wants to do so with this agreement that it has with Podemos, to make this expenditure rule more flexible. It's also true that the times are who they are, but I do want to do it, which I don't know is if they're good enough to get there in time. If the day is up, I hope – it seems that it will be debated in fifteen days – that you will support it. And I hope that the PDECAT Group too, of which the Councillor has joined. And, in any case, you said: "I will bring here a proposal to change the spending rule so that you can pay double payments. Look, I think with the 1,600_million euros you've announced you won't have any spending to spend, we could prioritize a part of the payments. I can't change that, we could already do that, like the gatherings, other communities, and so could the State. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore, prioritizing these 1,600_million euros we could already pay this and not pose...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.7.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.8.0	... surely in a very long-standing situation in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To replicate, again, the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.10.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, well, actually, the questions in the tax field are a little like the ballots that come back in this time of the year at the time of the assumptions, aren't they? In fact, very opportune, because then we'll have the place where we'll try to pose a problem to most of the government, won't we? , therefore, with some proposals. In any case, we're obviously putting him to work. I'm sure he'll introduce us to a young man. We're committed to working there. All the way, I'd like to make a few specifics. I want to remind you that Catalonia is in the territories, at the top of the territories, with more fiscal pressure from all over the state. Actually, if we look at it in terms of an autonomous community, it's the third. And that's it, if we look at it in terms of IRPF, if we look at it in terms of the estate tax and if we look at it, too, in terms of the estate tax. The inheritance charge is to the autonomous community of Aragó, who was in the capdamunt, and now the socialist government of Aragó has decided to make a down payment, huh? So, we're on a higher level. And if you don't believe me ask the deputy that his right hand will probably have a vision, not like my own, let's just say, very, very, very – more preventive before any increase. [[Widow's remorse.]] Second place... – I'm saying it because I was going to say things and see that Mr. Swordler did it with his head. [[relays]] , and it means that we have a lot of distance in tax matters with Mr. Swordler. Mr Mirin, some members of the government who, since these agreements, have taken a lot of action in the field of environmental taxation, CO2, in the nuclear field. Then we have to go for the residues in the nuclear field, gasses in the atmosphere. Only to speak in the environmental field, where the asset tax has been increased; where the inheritance tax has been recovered; some levels of IRPF have remained in place for us at the level of the IRPF tariff of the state. Do we have to go to the IRPF area? On the tarif sobre l'estalvi. We have the legal capacity to set a fee on the general basis, on the returns of the work, but not on the scope of the student. And over the scope of the student we have to keep moving forward in this sense. Second place, fighting the tax fraud. In the later years 557_millions in the later three years have risen from tax fraud by the Tax Agency of Catalonia. And we need to keep working on this, so we're asking for more resources for the Catalonia Tax Agency. For this reason, for example, we ask to access data in order to be able to implement some taxes on, for example, emissions..., taxes on CO2 emissions that affect vehicles, to be able to dispose of the hundreds of vehicles that the State Tax Administration does not facilitate us. In any case, let us hope that we can vote in Congress on this modification of the Presuppositional Enabling Law to lift the veto in the Senate. Actually, let's wait so long, we signed this proposal. To sign that it will be flexible with this modification, because it was a proposed modification for a very concrete theme, is the procedure so that there is no veto of the Senate; or so, the veto of the Senate is not defined. But the rule of spending, the state government doesn't want to change it. And I think it would be very reasonable – I don't want to change it –, what is said, and it is in the minutes of the Joint Economic and Fiscal Committee, it is that when the Generality is over, then it will be possible to make some financially sustainable investments, as it is in the case of joint ventures, they don't know that the Generality is providing the basic services of the welfare state – in the field of health, in the field of education, in the field of social protection, in the field of citizen security – and that, therefore, trying to maintain the zero-deficit dogma in an administration that provides these services has no sense. Therefore, this is why we want to change the rule of spending. A rule of spending is good; it's good to keep, not to stretch the arm more than handcuffs and to acquire current spending commitments in the times of fat cows. But there must be exceptions, and we must not be able to put some, in the area of some investments, they must be able to put in, and in the area of return of debts they must also be able to put in, because it is obvious that the return of one part of the payments is done and then it is not done again, the part of that payment. Therefore, it is obvious that this should be excluded. In any case, we insist: open to talk about always reviewing all areas of fiscal policy, also the imposition of estates; look, therefore, what can be improved [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , while the appeal is very exhausted, and obviously we'll start this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.11.0	Vice-President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.12.0	... round... – and I finish, president – this round with the groups to be able to explain details of the assumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.13.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Question to the Government on the consequences of the rules imposed on financial markets in line with public policies]] [[300-00034/12]] Let us turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the consequences of the standards imposed on financial markets in accordance with public policies. Interview submitted for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. The honourable Member's statement... [[Ramon Swordler and Partners ask to speak.]] Yeah. Say'm, Mr. Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.14.0	He asks for the word for an obvious allusion of the Vice-President to this Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.15.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.16.0	I'm sorry you didn't see me. No, as the Vice-President of the Government has rightly said, I am at the right, to all intents and purposes, of the Member of Parliament. [[the timer riu]] who just made the inquiry. In any case, yes, I would ask... – no, and I am saying this because I believe that it has been very constructed, from this debate – yes, I would ask you, therefore, that you, with the parliamentary group that together support the Government, do the same exercise that we have done, and probably here we will find a good point of finding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.17.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now yes, Congresswoman Maria Sirvent, when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.18.0	Okay. We have seen that, in view of the fiscal year 2019, the Generalitat's receipts will be increased by 2,700_million euros. They are tickets that in their main part come from the increase of economic activity. The same President of the Government, in the proposed Ple, stated that there are Catalan entrepreneurs who generate wealth and are very important. So let's see how this generation of rich impact on the working class. We see it with examples and concrete realities. Mirin, the data from the National Institute of Statistics show us that the workers still have the same salaries that they pay years ago. In fact, more than 20_percent of the employed population in Catalonia collects less than 1,000_gross euros per month. 25_percent of assalarial women pay less than EUR 11,792 per year and, therefore, their monthly income, at EUR 842,5 per month. Think of an lloger in Barcelona for less than this amount. The share of wages in gross disposable income has fallen by 0.5_percent since the year 2000 until 2016. Workers' remuneration has not yet recovered from the 2000 levels. Nevertheless, the benefits of companies in the Spanish State grew, in 2016, a two-cents_per_cent respect the previous year, while wages remained stagnant since 2012. Since the beginning of economic recovery – that is to say, more or less by 2015 – most of the euros from economic growth have ended up in the pockets of the most wealthy, who have made up four times more money than the poorest fringe of the population. More concretely, since the first quarter of 2012, productivity per hour worked has increased twice as much as the average wage; that is, we pay less and we work much more. We see how the subs are paralyzed, since the companies have chosen to gain competitiveness at a lower labour cost; among them, the companies of the friends of the president, those of the friends of the Czech Republic, who commented the other day to the plenary. We also see how the outsourcing of services and precarious jobs are, at present, a currency and that we are the women and young people who always end up paying this bill. The annual sound of a twenty-i-sis-years worker, today, is a 33_per_cent lower than in 2008, according to what the data of the National Institute of Statistics explain to us. A woman of twenty-i-sis years, today, charges a 33_per_cent less than 2008. In change, life's attachment is a constant in aspects as basic as transportation, habitating or communication. And we are the women that we need to stitch up your details and that we always get to where the public services can't get. You have been able to secure health services, you have been able to secure social health services that do cover socio-dependency and aging tasks, healing tasks. Why? So why are women always behind us, holding on to these healing tasks, taking care of advice, children or sick people, and many, many women know what we're talking about today. Let's see if, at least, with these 2,700_million euros more, so we can reverse a little of this situation. Let's see if we can do this with the assumptions, which, according to Mrs. Albiach, are the most powerful instrument the government has. President Torra the other day assured us that the presuppositions would talk about life, that the presuppositions would lay people's lives at the center. So let's see what we can do with these tickets, what we can do for the working class. In the first place, we must start from the premise, which the Vice-President has already explained to us, that the Government has no intention of disobeying the rules that the troika marks for us and that, therefore, they mark the financial markets for us, and that, lastly, they impose on us the state assumptions. And, therefore, if we want to comply with the fiscal objectives of debt, deficit and expenditure, we must also explain that of these 2,700_million euros we can only dispose of 1,600_million euros. Why? Because that's what sets us the rule of spending. The rest of the money where they're going? So we always: to pay the interest of the debt that has contracted in financial markets, on many occasions, for inversions of doubtful general interest. Money to go to the bank, to go to the people who have robbed us in mass, to go to the people who are the protagonists every day of hundreds of denunciations, to go to the bank that has been rescued with public money and to the same bank that defends the Supreme Court. With these 1,600_million euros we can dispose of, what can we do? What can we do? Are they destined for the development of courageous social policies? So, no. No, because if we want to maintain the welfare state, as we know it today, we will face the rising demand for social services. Because, although economic activity has increased, demand for social services is still growing. Think about it. Think about it, why this is happening. Why? Because we've got to keep the gears. Because we have to assume the presuppositional agreements that were agreed with the CUP: guaranteed income. We need to take on the increase of teachers. As you will, then, make a proposal of assumptions for the 2019 fiscal year that contemplates all the sobrieties, as the president said, if you have 1,600_million euros to spend and you have already spent 1,700 to keep things as they are? How will you make assumptions that contemplate educational sovereignty, health sovereignty, having a decent job or the right to decide, as the president said to answer a question from Mrs Albiach? How can the president say they're going to make a assumption that he's talking about life, that he's putting people in the center? This would mean, as a minimum – as a minimum – reversing the retailing and dismantling of the public sector. And you, Mr. Aragones, have no policy of betting on the internalization of services, no resources to cover social services as we know them today. How do you think you're gonna do it? Have you thought of permanent measures of revenue that can compensate for this situation? We're talking about something as simple as the redistribution of wealth. That tax policy rewards capital and not workers? It's a reality no one can deny. We talk to them with data: the 83_percent of the tax collection, the year 2016, came from VAT, the IRPF; in change, the tax of companies so alone contributed a 12_per_cent – certainly, a 10_per_cent less than the one that contributed the year 2007. That the generality's powers in this matter are almost non-existent? So it's no secret either, but the CUP made various proposals to them, but they didn't want to go in and explore, for example, the increase in the IRPF's higher returns, or any other tax change. This year, maybe, without the support of the CUP, they'll have to do it. But they'll have to do it not by will, but by necessity. For the sake of need, why? To endure, at least, the situation as it is. Maybe it'll be up to them to do what they didn't know to enforce the sovereignty of this Parliament, which is to ask for engrunes to the State; to ask for what is at least, for the State to return to what it gives us to the citizenry: 350_million euros of what was being talked about yesterday by Congressman Cid. The increase in the suspension of the tax on luxury goods which they approved with the CUP. It is that these are questions of the least, are questions of democracy and are not to serve as the currency of change. It's that we want to exercise rights, not market them with anyone. We want to exercise them, and we want to exercise them from now on, because there are people who can't wait. Maybe you do, but there are people who can't wait. And so, when Mr. Iceta yesterday told them that you were ruling and that you were taking on their responsibilities, and that you were doing there for what they are entitled to, that it is managing the assumptions, he told them – well, perhaps the correct word was the "warned" – that you already know that it is the best for Catalonia, that you already know what you have to do: that you have to approve the assumptions of the State, because, if not, you will be left without resources. And this is the constant chanting. And that's what the PSC does, so, look, it doesn't surprise us, but that Mrs Segovia and that Mr Cid, from Catalonia to Comú, are aiming at this chanting and encouraging parliamentary groups to give support to state assumptions to get more resources and that they are subject to negotiation of assumptions not to the content of a concrete proposal, but precisely to the approval of state assumptions, so, look, we didn't expect from a parliamentary group that talked about sovereignty constantly in this House. Because sovereignship is capable of deciding. Soberania is that we can govern ourselves, that we can decide over everything that affects us. And do you really think that sovereignty is dependent on these fiscal objectives? You know perfectly well that within the current mark, within the 78th Regime and under the watchful gaze of a corrupt monarchy it is impossible to apply its electoral program, it is impossible that we speak of assumptions that lay the center in life. And that's precisely why we're independent. Mr. Aragonès, we made you a proposal that talked about legislating in favor of the people, that went to bet on a real transformation of society, to break with the chains of this 78's rule, to stop enriching those who get rich at the expense of the poor of most workers. But you've decided to walk hand in hand with the usual. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.19.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Deputy President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.20.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies... Deputy Sirvent, I agree in many of the statistical figures that you have placed on the table in your intervention. Certainly, the returns of the work, not only in the Catalan economy but in the combination of the economies comparable to ours, have diminished their weight in relation to the gross domestic product in the later years. And, certainly, the economic recovery in Catalonia has been based, as one of its factors, not on the sole – not on the sole – wage content; wage content that as prices increase, while the dynamism of the economy is developing, obviously, what it does is that today, today's wages, in the same name, in the same quantity, are worth less than the wages of two years ago. Other factors that have helped economic recovery, from the global point of view, have been the best of energy prices, the facility, right? , or the lack of access to finance difficulties, and obviously also the context of the markets where we target our products, right? But obviously one of the competitiveness factors of the Catalan economy has been wage restraint. And this we must not allow, that I continue to feel this way, for a reason of justice, but also for a reason of effectiveness. The next crisis that comes, and at some point, then, will come some, because capitalism, as in the system, there are recurring crises, and that's how it's going to take us better prepared. In a better-prepared environment, and we have one... economic growth is much more balanced at this time. It is not just in one sector, but all sectors of the economy contribute to growth. There is also a much larger outward orientation, not focused on a single market, but on various markets, and that also makes us stronger. But, obviously, we must be competitive, not only with low wages, but we must be competitive in other areas, in the area of energy costs, capital costs, being able to generate innovation, to avoid competing in low wages and, therefore, to allow a wage recovery that is unattainable, and for this reason the Government of Catalonia considers absolutely insufficient the increase in the minimum wage proposed by the Government of the State to be 900 euros, for many reasons, but among others because the cost of living is not the same in Catalonia as in other areas of the State, and it is not the same 900 euros in Catalonia as in Extremadura, where the level of price and the cost of living is lower, and, so much so, the loss of money is much less. Therefore, a minimum wage adapted to the price level of the different territories would be an adequate enough measure and would be very interesting to boost the social agents agreed in this area. For what he does, then, to the presupposition of his own assumption, repeatedly, with the Candidature of Popular Unity, we have this debate, which we ask: "You must disobey the remedy of deficiency, you must disobey the fiscal objectives, you must disobey the rule of expense and the goal of debt. The question is that in both presuppositional and non-administrative matters are not dealt with, from my point of view, whether or not to disobey, but to administer. And to administer according to political principles, obviously, because it's that we can say that we are disobeying and that we will have more deficit and that, therefore, we will be in debt to cover more expenditure than we can do, but someone has to leave this money. And, therefore, someone leaves them to us, and leaves them to some interested, interested, that if you do it and you are in debt recklessly, or they force you to do it, they end up having a very high volume that limits, on their return, your ability to decide. What is the difference between Islam and Greece, two countries that have experienced a debt crisis. The difference is that Islam, with its resources, can assume all the current expenditure. Therefore, he does not need to borrow to finance current expenditure, and this allowed him to face a negotiation with the funded markets in relation to his debt. Greece did not, in Greece, until two years ago, it was still necessary..., they had not reached the primary current surplus and, therefore, they needed, in full negotiations of when the Syriza government entered, in full negotiations with the troika, their problem was that they had to restructure the debt but they also needed to continue to be indebted to pay current expenditure. And, obviously, this is not the fault of Syriza's government, they found the economy they found. What's going on in Catalonia? We have a solvent economy, we have an economy that, with the tax receipts generated by this economy, we could cover all the basic services in this country and we would not be in a position to ask for money, to be indebted to keep current spending in this country. Our problem is sovereign. Our problem is not in the economy. Our problem is in the sobriety. And here we agree that we need independence in order to be able to manage... – among many other things – to be able to manage the resources that are already generated in this country. Therefore, the difference between one and the other. We would like to assemble more, in this aspect, the model of how he faced it, of how he confronts himself in the financial markets, Islam than not Greece, right? Then, with regard to the generality's assumptions, you painted it very black. I think we need to be optimistic, and I think there's a point of contradiction he raised. Because he says: "Home, these assumptions, of course, are that between what they agreed with the CUP in 2017, a good part of the increase is already taking place. So votes 'n' them, votes 'n'sa these assumptions. If the assumptions that we present, this part of the increase much is already going to complete the agreements with the CUP, that we will complete them, because the presupposed agreements of 2017, once are agreements, already ours, obviously, don't support. Or is it that keeping that good deal with the CUP isn't worth it now, in front of 2019? Or do we have to go to the default of that agreement because he didn't want to agree on assumptions? I understand that you challenge the Government of Catalonia's overall policy for other reasons and, therefore, it is not a question of assumptions. Permanent Ingredient Measures have no feces– no feces. This is the Parliament of the whole State that has created more taxes in the past few years, that we have innovated more in the environmental field, that we have recovered the property tax, that we receive 40_percent of the property tax of the conjunction of the State, that we have recovered the estate tax. We have the IRPF tram, the highest tram, the highest, the highest, with the highest type. Therefore, the margin that has been reduced – it is reduced – can always be changed, but the margin is very reduced – it is very reduced – and there are also effects of displacement of certain returns that must be taken into account, and that the mobility of capital, in the marque of a market like the Spanish State, but also in the marque of a financial globalisation, the mobility of capital today makes it difficult for sub-state or state governments to also be able to impose taxes that they would touch and that we would certainly agree, within the scope of capital. For this reason, we have always defended the harmonisation of the tax of societies, as in the case of the European Union, which would allow us to avoid the fiscal dumping that some states are doing in the area of the European Union; but, obviously, on the margin, if this is a discussion of the European field, I think that we can understand that in the face of the assumptions of 2019, that this can be solved all at once by a country that is administratively an autonomous community, a country that is under a deficit protocol..., a state that is under an excessive deficit protocol supervised by community institutions, man... I believe that asking the Generality of Catalonia, which, I repeat, administratively, is a sub-state government of a state that intervenes by the protocol of the European government, is an ex-government system. This government... we can do a lot of things, but in this sense, I think that in this... go on, we don't see each other in the color of being able to do it. We will also present good assumptions and assumptions, because these assumptions will remain in the social sphere, in the field of health, in the field of teaching, in the field of social services, in the field of security, in investments – some very necessary – in order to increase competitiveness, such as optical fiber. So we'll bet on it. And, therefore, what we ask of all groups is that, from the outset, there is no will for a veto, but we discuss the assumptions, we discuss the assumptions that there is, and we do not subordinate these assumptions... – and I agree with you on this – that we do not subordinate these assumptions to the assumptions discussions in other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.21.0	Thank you, Vice President. Again, and by the turn of the line, Mrs. Maria Sirvent has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.22.0	Miri, Mr. Aragones, I'll say it backwards: pretend that an anti-capitalist organization approves of capitalist assumptions, maybe it's mass demand. We've approved them, some assumptions, based on a chanting and we'll never fall back into that chanting, which I made very and very clear to you. When the president says yesterday that we all need each other, I guess I'd also like to count on the popular and hardworking majority of this country. When Mr Sabria spoke yesterday of a people willing to decide, I suppose he wanted to ask this popular and hardworking majority as well. But, Mr. Aragones, who wants you to feel questioned? Who wants to feel questioned in a society that has gone to the poor? Look, we, the one who asks you, that we believe it to be of the least, is that you are being honest, that you explain to the people what is there, and that you clearly explain that these assumptions do not reverse the details that you have starred or consolidated, because this is not your political will. Explain that they are not willing to reverse the privatisations, and that they continue to defend that they can negotiate with public services. Explain, clearly, that these, if they arrive, will not be the assumptions that most of this country's workers deserve, as we explained in 2017. And they won't be, despite the negotiations to make the rule of spending more flexible, and you know it perfectly well. Explain that yes, that we have to be indebted to someone, but we also have to explain that they are absolutely stuck for the FLA, that they do not have the capacity to control autonomous finances, and that control has the financial markets. Explain that the royal decree regulating the FLA states that a portion of the generality's debts pay them directly, without passing through Catalonia, the Institute of Official Credit, on behalf of the Catalan Government, and that the bill for this payment goes directly to enlarge the generality's debt with the State. Explain that the rest of the resources that are transferred to the Generalitat and that it pays directly to suppliers and commercial creditors, must be reported monthly to the Ministry of Finance, that the Generalitat has to deliver, monthly, financial reports to the State that specify where the resources of the FLA have gone, as well as the evolution of the adjustment plan. Explain that the FLA regulations imposed for the European Union absolutely limit the possibility of issuing with the markets or of borrowing with the banks, always requiring an agreement with the Spanish State. They explain that they are prevented from issuing debt and credit operations on a long-term basis and without Madrid's authorization and that the financial conditions of credit operations are to be communicated on a short-term basis, and that all applications, all applications, must go through the general intervention, which must ensure that the conditions laid down in order to do so are fulfilled, in order to be able to respond to the needs of the financial markets and, therefore, that the rules of the Law on Presuppositional Stability of 2012 are complied with. And explain also that you have decided to continue to manage the little autonomy left to the Government and Parliament, while robbing us, to a worthy people that was put before this 78th rule, the ability to decide, and that this has some very concrete consequences. And we don't talk about sobrieties, we don't talk about putting life in the center, when you're talking about the mid-market assumptions, the mid-market assumptions of the sacrosanct Constitution and the state of retaliated autonomy. For us, Mr Aragonès, the independence claim is an opportunity to overcome this mark and to improve the living conditions of the majority of the people and workers, and we have not come to this Parliament to make autonomy, we have not come to this Parliament to manage the wreaths of an autonomy intervened for the rules of the market, of an autonomy that what it does is an instrument of assurance of capitalism. And no, we would not participate in a return of elites or a second transition agreed by the latter, nor in a new fit in the Spanish State, because this, of course, would condemn us to follow the path of poverty and precariousness in the march of autonomy that has proved to be inviolable in order to guarantee the rights and needs of the working class, which needs urgent answers, and needs them already. Because it looks like we're living in a dumpster. It seems that we are in this Parliament without knowing who the real reality of society is. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I remember them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.23.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.24.0	... that the 25_percent of women cover less than €840 per month. Think about it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.25.0	It's the return, again, of the vice president of the government. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.26.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, I can agree with many – and many – of the complaints you have just made. I can agree with the description of the financial intervention mechanisms of the State and the mechanisms that accompany the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, these control mechanisms, information reporting mechanisms. I can agree with that. The question is, what do we do? What do we do? Do we keep our arms folded or do we have to work to change it? And, obviously, do we set out to work to change it to change the political bases that allow this? Yeah. And while we're not changing, do we get to administer it? Do we pose to give response to immediate reprehensive demands from the people? You talked about the majority of the people and the workers. I think that most of the popular and hardworking people in this Parliament are represented by a lot of groups, not just the CUP, I guess, because if it wasn't the majority, huh? Therefore, it is represented extensively by many groups. And today you need them on the table, and we need you on the very assumption that we need to make. In these moments we have a negotiation in the field of health, for example, to improve rights, to recover rights that were detailed in the field of health in the working conditions of doctors, nurses and the rest of the health personnel. We are committed to doing everything possible for the better of these rights and for their recovery. I'll bring me my own presuppositions. There will be measures in this area in the proper assumptions. Not everyone we want, we will not manage to change it all at once, but we will always be fighting to improve, in every area – in every area – of management, the conditions of the majority of the people. We need them in the educational sphere. The deployment of the inclusive school decree: it is fundamental – it is fundamental – to attend to diversity in the field of our classrooms. Are we looking at what's going on outside Parliament? We have classes in our schools where the work of the teachers, of the educators went much further than sharing an assignment. Social cohesion, and they need more resources: inclusive school decree. We need to increase the number of students in the field of Batxillerat, and in the field of ESO, and in the field of Vocational Training. And that's why we need to put more teachers there. We need to pay teachers so there's someone in the classroom when the student goes. And that's why they'll also be in our presuppositions. We need, as I said before, in terms of inversions. There are investments that can't be postponed for competitiveness, because when there is a complicated situation again at the global economic level – because it's complicated, every day you have a lot of people in this country, a lot of people in this country – we don't have to compete only in low wages. And, therefore, we need infrastructure adapted to our time. We may not need the great highways, but we do need digital motorways, the optical fiber that is driving the councilman Puigneró, to set an example. And we also need to attend to immediate needs in the field of security, that security is not only the Squadron Mosses – it is also obvious. The renovation of equipment, we also need it in the area of safety and emergencies, in the area of firefighters. Or don't we know all the demands that the bombers make us, and that we share, and that we want to assume the proper assumption also measures to be able to change it? We'll put it all down, and we'll do it all, and we'll be aware that we'll also question the political framework in which we find ourselves. But let's not give up on the steps we can take right now, and we fully know what the state government will do, which is not to share the political project that we defend. Therefore, this is a government that has reversed the details, that is reversing the details and that will just reverse them. And that in the proper assumptions we are in current expenditure figures for 2009 and 2010. And that with ATLL we could have done, and it would have been the easy solution, a new concession, and we didn't. A public company has been set up to administer, in this case, the water supply network. And yesterday we presented the law of service contracts to people precisely to avoid that that part that the Administration does not and that delegate in the field of the third sector, cooperatives or also small and medium-sized enterprises did not stop, because of a_marc thought only of commercial criteria, to large international corporations, vagina to stop to the subsidiaries of the IBEX 35. And that's all we're doing in this government, and obviously we're going to do it. And we'll never give up. We know the difficulties you have described, but we set the path, which is to work every day – to work every day – and not to put up with it to improve people's living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.27.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Interview with the Government on the National Compact for the Digital Society]] [[300-00035/12]] The next question is about the National Pact for Digital Society, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya. Asks the honourable Member Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.28.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you, President Torrent. We cannot see that we live in a normal situation, as there are reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State calls more than two hundred years in prison. That's why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. We won't give up. Today we present this inquiry to Councillor Puignero on the National Pact for the Digital Society. First place, then, we're happy, aren't we? , that this is a strategic policy of the Government of the Generality, because today – we are on 8 November – we all have a mobile phone, that we have a few telephones and many other things: of xats, videoconferencing with people who are at the other end of the world; we can buy, reserve, localize services, know who is the state of the traffic, know if there is an electric storm, and even control us – all in all, if you like it – which salvation we have and which sport women. Today, November 8, 2018, our cars, motorcycles, bicycles, habitats live the revolution of the Internet of Things. It's all different. It's just like it's been three years. Today, November 8, work places, classrooms of a school, teaching methodology from an institute or university, all changing for the digital repte. We are living a fourth revolution that is working in the use of technologies such as big data, robots, blockchain, virtual reality or the internet of things. This revolution is an opportunity, as highlighted by a report issued by the Enterprise Department, the 2018 generation that calculates the impact of digitalization on businesses and points out that it will generate more than 13,000 job places by 2030. Catalonia is a country with an innovative, transformative tradition, which has always been characterized because people are our best action; our ability to transform – our ability – is the best presentation card. The sector of the new communication technologies has grown by 29_per_cent in the last three years in Catalonia, and is working for a 3.9_per_cent of the occupied population. In fact, in the 2017 report of the Barometer of Innovation in Catalonia, 21.8_percent of innovative companies has allocated resources to the training of their workers in the field of new technologies and digital transformation. Catalonia has always been at the forefront of innovation and, in this case, also of the challenge of digital society. We have Catalans and Catalans leading and taking responsibility places in world-class tech companies, innovative in products, transforming and adapting to this revolution. There will be more than 100 Catalan companies participating in the next Mobile Congress. Is that crazy? Faced with this reality, I do not understand how Members or Members can be mocked or not aware of this opportunity. We want a republic, also digital, but not as a fi in itself, but as an instrument in favor of people. Because the digital republic is not an illuminating one: it is a reality in a country like Estonia, which is the world's first digital country, and in any congress of innovation, of electronic administration, of new trends in administration, Estonia is cited. And you are a resource of these digital policies, but we have other governments in the world, such as the Republic of Austria, with a Minister of Digital and Economic Affairs; for example, also a Minister of Digital Governance in Canada; the Minister of Transport and Digital Infrastructure in Germany; Minister of Science and Technology..., and Estonia, in the case of the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technologies, and also in the area of Sweden. Therefore, Catalonia and its Government have a Digital Policy Council, adapted to the world, adapted to these challenges. You, in the government program, refer to these reptes of digital city, cohesive territories, an efficient administration, a cybersecurity country, digital innovation... We believe that all these reptes are necessary. This revolution is also coming to our cities, our towns, our territories. We see how social networks are used to plan the use of cities in urban planning, serve to care for large people through mobile applications, or can control irrigation systems to save water in public places. And this digital transformation, how will the government deal with it? Mirin, urbanism came to an end from the industrial revolution, basically to regulate the health of cities. But today in this regulation of cities, territories, there is a basic aspect, which is access to fiber. Today we have recognized political rights – some –, social rights – the right to health care, the right to education, the right to health – but, as Professor Jordi Borja said, ICTs are or can be today a democratizing instrument of democracy; the social uses of ICTs are today an instrument of resistance to dominant powers and of political, economic and cultural alternatives. And we saw it on October 1st with the violation of digital rights, which are not right to privacy, right to freedom of information, right to access, freedom of expression. For all this we understand that it is necessary to guarantee this right of access to the fiber because, as Mr Cid said, for us it is not a minor issue, it is not an earthly issue. The right of access to fiber is a question that affects equal opportunities, cohesives the territory avoiding there being first-class and second-class citizens. Or isn't it important that all the citizens in Catalonia have right access to fiber to ensure their equal opportunities if, for example, they want to open a business? The right of access to fiber is an opportunity: social equality, cohesion. We do not allow them, we do not like that it is mofin of the right of access to the fiber or of these digital policies, because we are the territory. We have people from the bar, don't we? , for example, from Gràcia, or from Sarrià de Barcelona to Santa Coloma de Gramenet, from Mollerussa to Reus, from Mataró to Jesus, from Vic to Sort, from Besalú to Lleida, from Valls to Salard, from Waterloo to Lledoners, from Escòcia to Geneva or from Puig de les Basses to Mas Enric. And that's the territory, and all these citizens have right to fiber access. For this reason, in this sense, we want to propose to him and ask him to do it and explain to us who are the active policies, who are the assumptions and who are all the actions that have been wanting since the council, because, as the vice president said, affect competitiveness. All these aspects are extremely important. But there are also some others that I believe fall within the scope of the National Pact for Digital Society. Beyond the right of access to fiber, who are the technological infrastructures, let's say, what does Catalonia need in order to face this reality? Who are the Government's concrete digital policies? Who are these policies in the field of digital policies related to this effective administration that we are asking for? We think we need a job in all of this. I think the counselor will be able to explain it to us. And in this sense, like the Parliament of Catalonia, we feel questioned and put ourselves in their disposition for everything that affects these policies so that the Parliament continues to form part, as there have already been different actors who are working with the Government of the Generality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.29.0	Thank you, Mrs. Geis. To answer the question has the word Jordi Counselor Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.30.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, deputies and deputies. Thank you very much, Mrs Geis. Miri, in the first place thank you that allow me to today power, therefore, explain, from the perspective of the Government, how we will focus this challenge of the digital revolution. I think that given the importance and transcendence that it has in these moments, in this century, that it will be digital and citizen, therefore, to be able to have digital policies and to explain them and that in this Parliament it is possible to debate..., I think that they are debates that should occur more often in this Parliament. I'm saying this because it's the first time that, after four months, I have the opportunity to intervene in this sense. Look, one of the greats of Spanish literature, Jorge Luis Borges, said that things are happening now but we don't understand them until many years later. For example, we understand the importance that they have had, therefore, from the steam engine or the discovery of electricity, in which they were the first and second industrial revolution, revolutions that have had a very important impact in our country, and which are today in the forefront, huh? And let's explain, to put it this way, how important they were in our country, unlike what happened in this case to the Spanish State. What we have lived, and now we understand its importance, is what we are also living now. This new revolution, in this case, the fourth industrial revolution, the digital revolution, huh? ..., surely a few years from now we will hear the importance of some of the initiatives that perhaps today are still not very understandable. And so, in this sense, I think we should put all our senses. Look... and, therefore, stop referring to this revolution as a casserole, as some Members have done or as some Members of this Parliament have done. Look, the government has a plan, huh? The plan, obviously, drinks different documents. First of all, as it could not be otherwise, I drink of the electoral programs of political groups that support the government and that chose this government in this Parliament. I wouldn't feel like it wasn't like this. But, also, and with an annihilation to assume, therefore, other political realities, to assume also other territorial realities, the Pla de Governo also drink of the National Pact for the digital society which was approved by the last legislature and which was a great country agreement between the Government of the Generality, the assemblies, the municipalist entities, the AOC Consortium, the Localret Consortium. Therefore, a large platform in which a lot of people took part, a lot of actors took part. With this cross-cutting, territorial, too, we have decided, say, to build the foundations of the Pla de Govern of this Government, which is based on five great axes, eh? The first is related to the city. Because that's all we do for the citizens. And if we want to tackle the great challenge of the digital revolution, we need to have a new digital citizenship that allows us to put their hands in order to be able to take more decisions about what is happening in our country, in all its spheres – in the national sphere, in the municipal sphere, in the area of the territory – and, therefore, to attend to the reality of participation and to involve the citizens much more in what are the political governance decisions of our country; digital tools will be a must. I, therefore, take over the citizens must be one of the first bases of politics, of digital policies, of this government. Obviously, too, digital training policies. Because if we don't form them, if, since they're very small, we don't help our babies and babies develop in this digital environment, they'll surely have fewer job opportunities in the future. And so, training, education in this area... we're not in favour of banning furniture in classrooms, all the contrary, what we need to look for is to use it well, huh? because they will be the tools they will use in the future, and therefore we cannot have a policy, in this case, of prohibition, but of regulation. And here are different programs that we are driving, from the Stemcat Program, together with the Department of Education, as well as the Bitbot. cat, in front of the extracurriculars, or also all the policies related to the sphere of the woman. This is an eminently masculine sector, so far; we want to reverse this situation. The ICT sector cannot dispense with 50_percent of the talent of its society. That would be a weakness like society. And, therefore, here you will see, and we are seeing, different policies active in the field of fostering the incorporation of the woman into this very important and strategic environment for our country. And, finally, also, protect our citizens, because the events that took place the weeks before October 1st, when we saw closed websites, when we saw press releases... This cannot happen again in our country. And, therefore, we will work for a digital right-and-rights card to Catalonia that follows the vision of the digital society that we want for the future, not just here, but the world. A second element, very important, that is to have a cohesive territory – the deputy, also the vice-president, referred to it – and a cohesive territory means a territory with digital infrastructures, a territory above all with optical fiber, where the fiber comes to all the rights and to all the municipalities of our country. We don't want a country with first and second citizens. In fact, there are different indicators that already measure... or competitiveness indicators. Until now we knew that the distance between cities was measured, as a factor of competitiveness, with the distance that there is, therefore, a municipality in Barcelona. This measure is ugly, so first in miles and then in hours. We will probably also have to start measuring in megabits, with the ability of cities and their cities and their access companies to the network. And, therefore, this will be a phonetic element. With this proposal we will continue to extend and deploy the Open Channel of Catalonia as a fundamental instrument for territorial cohesion. We have already deployed nearly four thousand kilometres; our goal is to finish 2020 the deployment for which it makes access to all the region capitals of our country. We have, at these times, already 29 connections; 4 that will be connected properly, and we will have 9, that I hope that, with the money that we will put in the proper presupposition, and that you, therefore, will have the responsibility to vote-there or not in favor, we can finish the deployment and completion of this connectivity to all the points of our territory. Third element: to adapt, obviously, our Administration and our Government to the concept of a new administration: a more digital administration, an administration without papers. Look, so far the great governance pillars have been... – of the administrations, of the institutions –, they have been, above all, obviously, the assumptions and the people. This will continue to feel that way. Managing money and human resources have followed two phone lines. We need to incorporate into all levels of the Administration two more levers, which are the management of technology and the management of data. These are two fundamental elements that will change many of the governance elements as we have so far: we work models, we space, we surround, policies of coworking, teletreball, etc. This is also moving towards digital administration. Obviously, also the impulse of digital competitions, for which he does to the same workers of the Generality. And, finally, also, the announcement that we are already working on the reform of Decree 56/2009, to adapt more quickly to Acts 39 and 40, which are the laws that, in this case, deal with the matter of Administration. Fourth. A cybersecurity country. It seems to me that there are no examples of what is happening in the world that respect the need we also need to protect ourselves in this environment. Just as we have team movements to protect the physical environment, and it's a public policy, so cybersecurity becomes a public policy of this country. And that's why we pushed the last legislature to create the Cybersecurity Agency. Certainly, with a very broad consensus of this department, with votes in favour of Junts for Catalonia, of Esquerra Republicana, also of the Socialist Party, also of the commons, and with the abstention, at last, of the CUP and of the People's Party. So what we have at this point in time is an absolute irresponsibility on the part of those who could, at this time – and I am now referring to the Socialist Party – to help us raise this suspension when, moreover, this party gave support in this Parliament and it is an approved law with broad consent. In this sense, I have to say and I have to say that Minister Batet has shown favorably to start and study this possibility. I hope, therefore, that they will also accompany us on this journey. And finally, this must also be a country of employment opportunities in the field of the new digital economy. There is no more important social policy than helping our citizens to work. And, therefore, investing in an innovation ecosystem in our country, in a reference area, for what it does to digital policies, in being a digital hub at the level of southern Europe, I think it must also be in the DNA of digital policies. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] This is why we will work very intensively in supporting the reference technology centres in these digital technologies. I am talking, therefore, about reference technologies, for example, the internet, the Centre de Visió per Computer, the Centre de Telecommunications de Catalunya, the Barcelona Supercomputer ; encouraging also events and driving events even more...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.31.0	You're out of here, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.32.0	...as hard as the Mobile World Congress can be. Therefore, an active policy in the field of digital policies that I hope will have the support of this Parliament through the National Pact for Digital Society, which is already an instrument of which we have given ourselves the last parliamentary term. And what I hope... and what's missing, even though we've already done the meetings...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.33.0	Time's up, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.34.0	...meetings to incorporate..., the Parliament, also feel ratified by this chamber. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.35.0	Thank you, Mr. Puignero. To make the reply, the word Gemma Geis has now. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, do you give up doing it? Congresswoman, Mrs. Geis? [[Gemma Geis and Carreras give up using the word.]] Okay. [[Question to the Government on the working conditions of workers in the tourism sector]] [[300-00036/12]] Let's move on to the next point of the order of the day that is the fifteenth: the inquiry to the Government on the working conditions of the workers of the tourism sector, which presents the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose the question, the honourable Member has the word Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.36.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Catalonia is the territory of the Spanish state that receives the most tourism. Catalonia is also the most occupied territory in this sector. The profitability of the hotel park in Catalonia has grown by 49,7_per_cent respect to the data of ten years ago, which has meant a great increase in revenues in tourist brands in global terms. Today's talk about tourism is about an economic sector that has strategic importance for the economy as a whole and a direct impact on Catalan society. However, the boom and wealth generated in the sector has not meant any improvement in the work of its workers. While the hotel parks are increasingly profitable, the housekeepers continue to charge €2.3 per room. These precarious figures are most often marked by the outsourcing and temporaryity of their workers. In addition, it adds severe working conditions that could be considered in some cases typical of modern slavery. A panorama that is highly troubling. This is confirmed by the data of our Observer of Treball i Model Productiu, based on data of the EPA, where it is emphasized that the temporality rate of the tourism sector has risen a 30,6_per_cent. That is to say, nine points above the Catalan economy as a whole, with women once again being the main victims. Today 30_per_cent of women working in the tourism sector do so on part-time days. On the other hand, the outbreak of the outsourcing of services in the tourism sector and the creation of multi-service companies that meet the needs of hotels was developed largely ad hocly when this niche market was opened as a result of the labour reform of the People's Party, to which its partners, councillor, set aside, voting for abstention. But the worst part is that most of them were created by companies that already existed. Multiservice companies, with presence in the sector of hotels, restaurants, catering like Grupo Constant, Rank 10, Selecta Services for Hotels, Suit Hotels. So, what are these? Screen companies, created with the aim of reducing costs, have come to save more than 45_per_cent through the illegal transfer of workers. However, what have been the benefits of these outsourcings for these workers? Exactly, none. On the contrary, the extension of the outsourcing model in the apartment departments of many hotels has had multiple negative consequences on the collective, which was already experiencing a sharp deterioration in their working conditions. Among these negative consequences we find: reduction of wages, wages that have been reduced by 30 and 40_per_cent. This has therefore also contributed to the reduction of social security contributions, of workers, which will have clear effects, or which is already having clear effects on the public pension and health system. It has also led to an increase in the workload. The 2008 crisis and unemployment, together with the mechanisms for unprotecting the labour reform of the PP Government, have acted as a disciplinary mechanism to promote intensification in work, insecurity and fear. It has also meant insecurity and fear. Multiservice companies cause workers to live with an internal anguish and insecurity about the duration of their employment, making it difficult to organize trade unions within the workplaces. And increased health problems, associated with increased workload, in the face of a lack of staff, make job risks intensify and, as some evaluations have shown, increase the pain and discomfort of workers, especially of housewives, who mostly consume drugs in order to be able to continue working. A series of deteriorations arising from scheming strategies exercised by some tourism companies which contribute to the dismantling of the welfare state, condemning workers, and especially women, as have been reported by collectives such as the Kellys. Counselor, do you see it normal that the work of the housekeepers should be outsourced? Inherent works, which are truncated in the companies themselves? Does your normal government see that hotel workers are not entitled to early retirement despite the fact that it is physically impossible to reach the age of sixty - five as a housekeeper? Counselor, to govern is not to come here to the plenary, to appear in some photo... To govern is that the administrations put a stop to the precarious work of workers, and in this case those of the tourism sector, especially the housekeepers. To govern is to put in place measures and require economic actors not to be engines of inequality, but of equity and progress. It is necessary for the Generalitat to commit itself to promoting quality work, generating dynamics that penalize companies that use subterfuges to violate the rights of their staff. It is necessary for the Generalitat to commit itself to building a model of tourism and employment that respects the citizens and the workers. There is a need to demand causes that justify the use of temporary contracts, the form of discontinuous fixed in the tourism sector. Social dumping must be brought to an end by banning outsourcing in the sector, which the wealth that it generates has an impact on those who work. There is a need for companies to respect the collective agreements in the sector in Catalonia. And there is a need for measures to enforce the labour risk law, with necessary audits and inspections. Counselor, women don't have to fight all their lives for the Generalitat to look the other way by allowing women to charge 2,3_€ for cleaning a room. Either you legislate to recognize the rights of these women or women will pass over. I guarantee it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families responds. It's Mr. Chakir The Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.38.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors..., MP Lopez, I think he has placed us in a context and made a diagnosis of one of the most worrying realities around one of the most important sectors in the time of generation of occupation, of paper in the GDP that this country that is Catalonia has. In the elements that have been in place, most believe that we are absolutely in agreement. I mean, I think you've made it clear... because, aside from that, you said it yourself: they're data from the same observatories. We have introduced the fact that the observer can make a specific analysis of the situation of tourism, because it is a sector that concerns us and is already a sector that, by the very dynamics of the sector, is very seasonal, but that with the data and with the follow-up of these data it is shown that there are some indexes of higher temporality; that there are some indexes of partiality, of part-time, higher; that we are on a medium wage of between four and five thousand euros less than the average in Catalonia, and we are absolutely aware of it; that there is a reality that it is a sector..., and this is usually one of the priorities of this department, it is only one of the priorities of this sector that has been before the government in 2018. And this is a reality, and I suppose you know that it is one of the priorities that we are addressing from the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, and it is one of the aspects that we want to deal with especially from two areas: the area of the Labour Relations Council, which is the area of concertation that allows us to work together with the workers' representatives, the unions, with the corporate fabric, the employers, and to look for that concertation element that helps to be able to do it, working also in which way we ensure that equal plans are registered and that there is a mechanism that accompanies all the business fabric, to ensure effective equality, real, around all the product theme. It's one of the things that worries us the most. And you have also placed one of the key aspects around here, which are multi-serve businesses, which is subcontracting. Of course, I was listening to him and I said, "Yes, yes, I share that, but I think you also know that there are... The subject is very complex. I will now explain to him what we are doing, because you said that governing is not coming to Parliament... Home, I believe that any government should be able to go to Parliament, taking control of the Government; if not, bad reason. I assure you that governing is not just coming to Parliament, but unfortunately if a government does not see a parliament. I think, out of respect for you, that's bad news. But besides that, we're doing a lot of things, but I think you're aware and you'll agree with me that it's as simple and as complex as two actions that you can do, and with these two actions you've already addressed the problem, the root of the problem, the delays of the problem. Because, if not, we're not addressing the background and milestones of the problem. And the two aspects are these: Article 42 – and I don't need to be told, why do we all know that? – the preponderance of convenis. Labour reforms, because I am talking about labour reforms. You have spoken about labour reform; I am talking about labour reform. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, but you only talked about one. I say to him: the problem is with the various labor reforms that have occurred. And since June I've been waiting for a move by the state government to respect. I have already said this publicly, so I am directly in favour of bringing these reforms to an end. But, man! concrete things around these reforms can be done, and they are basically these two aspects. The 42 is not reform; it is a change from the Staff of Workers, which is a long-standing issue that we have been debating, that there have been proposals, that proposals have been put forward, and that is the way in which we will control the issue of subcontracting, which is the big issue. The preponderance of the agreement. With these two aspects, so simple and so complex at the same time, because they have a very large size, we may have solved much of the diagnosis you were making, and a clear diagnosis. From here, what will I explain to you? So I will explain to you aspects that we are working from the department around these two aspects, that we would already like to be able to do so; I would like to say, to me, if they give me the opportunity and the power to change Article 42 of the Staff Regulations, and no longer say'removal of labour reform', but as a matter of priority, and that sector agreements are about business agreements, which is what multi-serve enterprises are going to do to precarise the same labour market, only with these two elements I, if I can do it, already assure you that I have done it. From here, I want to explain some of the aspects that we are working on from the Labour Relations Board, from the Labour Inspectorate, from the Catalan Institute of Safety and Health at Work. Why have you also placed one of the aspects that the collection, in a fully conscious society, the collection of floor-rooms, because they are usually women, the most publicly known collection as kellys, okay? From the Labour Relations Board, what are we working on and how are we working on it? Miri, here's one thing that's key. In the Interprofessional Agreement of Catalonia, which is the agreement signed by the trade unions and employers representing the country, which was signed in July, which was done the formal act on September, in the same agreement, trade unions and employers, there is a specific point about multi-serve enterprises. That is to say, it is an aspect that is absolutely controlled, that we all share the diagnosis, that is the problem. We are helping in the application of this internal agreement of the AIC, we are helping to enable, from the work group of the Board of Labour Relations, through the concertation, the same agents, to mark the limits around the use of this type of company while not changing 42 and not changing the prevalence of agreements. The application priority of the business agreement has eliminated the application priority of the sector agreement. On the other hand, in the area of work inspection, I believe that you are aware that in the work plan of the Catalan Labour Inspectorate, if there has been one aspect that has been vertebrate in the last two years and continues to feel it is the work around subcontracting, the illegal cessation of workers in the various fields. The work that has been done since the Labour Inspectorate around the false autonomies, especially in some telecommunications sectors, which were very well known cases, has been very visible, where the activities of the Labour Inspectorate of Catalonia have given their fruits. We are aware that the other great area we have been working on from work inspection..., and it is another area where subcontracting and a law-based subcontracting – because things have to be said for their name – we have also treated it very directly, with specific inspection campaigns, which is the meat sector. I think you share it; apart from last year's legislature, we agreed to amend the Cooperatives Act to deal with this element. And we've introduced all the work around the inn sector. From the tourist sector... because you told me about the flatbeds, the kellys, but here I think we are all aware that there are also problems in other areas of the tourist sector and that we need to address it. So that's the priority element we're working on. And I give you a few dice, because I have them, because I think they're interesting, and because I think that... Look, the job inspection, this 2018, in the first two months of 2018, has ended a total of 7,348 orders of service, okay? , in companies in the economic sector of the hotel industry, traditionally included in the tourism sector. These 7,348 represent 16.5_percent of the total activity of the inspection system; i.e., in excess of the pes in GDP. What's the result of this? I told you to do it, didn't I? I think we're aware that one of the problems that happened at the time of the inspection was that it didn't take into account, when one went away, as the replacement. That's what Mrs. Bassa agreed to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.39.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.40.0	In the reply I just gave him the information and we just placed the various areas of reptes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply you have the word, again, the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.42.0	Thank you, Counselor. Yes, we agree in everything, in the diagnosis; perhaps what we do not have is the same forms, because, perhaps, we could see that we could do a little more. For example, we can support the Kellys in Congress, because the government does not present a..., it is not that I will defend the state government, but it does not present the modification of labour reform, because the PDECAT has said that it will not vote for it, its governing partners. And, well, and I would like to talk to you and I would also like you to explain to me the amendment, what has been done about the convention that will come into force in January to stop these outsourcings or to equate the wages of the Kellys, these modifications... It is in your hands that this is retroactive, because the small letter of that convention says: "The entry into force will take place from 31 December 2018 and will not affect those companies that have already outsourced the services before the date; it says so, textually. That is, if a hotel signs a five-year contract with a multi-service company before January 2019, its maids will continue to charge less, until the contract is renewed or concluded; that is, if it has been five years, for those five years longer. We know this, you know this, as you also know, as I have already told you, that you are the only ones who have the power to apply this measure for retroactive purposes, to go back. Both the Government and the Members of this House know that the hotel chains have already been put to work in order to avoid this. I would like you to specify to me a little more, apart from what has remained, this, the modification that has been made. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.44.0	Deputy, quickly, I will just complete the information, but quickly around what was around the new convenient... The autonomy of the parties is important. Of course, no..., I come from this background, some time I have had a lot of discussions here, about the autonomy of the parties in collective bargaining. We will continue to press and all the elements in which we can ensure the best conditions, we will accompany in this process. I think that we will find it, in the following motion they will present, I think that it is possible to visualize directly in the group of work of convenient collections of the Board of Labor Relations where, it is the same Administration, together with unions and employers, that says: "In the field of multi-serve enterprises, we must jointly analyze how they take advantage of the business agreement in order not to complete the sector agreement. And we have the specific work group, with this element, on which this year's work plan is, and we've placed it. They're always respectful of the autonomy of the parts, because I... like they come from this area, I don't think... I think when we skip the autonomy of the parts we skip the final sense of collective bargaining. Now, we'll go with each other and keep with each other to guarantee something that's key, that's decent working conditions, because it's key. Why is our first concern now: how can we have 400,000 workers at risk of poverty? That's breaking the basic social contract, and that's what we'll keep doing. Which I was explaining, I'm going back to the inspection: I'm saying that because I also have the whole map, and I think it's also interesting that we know it. Of these 7,348 orders of services, 15,146 have been confirmed in various subjects: safety and health, labour relations, occupation and foreign affairs. Here, too, there is another aspect: there are various vulnerabilities, there is a vulnerability linked to being a woman, and when this vulnerability is added to the other, which is a woman and of various origin, strange, it is when there are all the possibilities of vulnerability that exist in our world of work. And this is one of the elements that also worries us about inspection. We have made 5,597 visits to centers in this sector. As a result, we have generated 3,791 high in social security, i.e., people who were working and who were not high in social security; we have converted 2,157 temporary contracts into indefinite contracts, i.e., contracts that were under the law; we have managed to liquidate almost 10_million euros in social security contributions; 609 workers and workers – which is also important, because you have identified it, that it is also one of those aspects of precariousness – we have managed to increase their working day; that is, the day they had declared in the contract was not what they were doing, they were doing much more. It is this work that we will continue to do and that we are very clear that we will prioritize. And around this point, I think we'll all have to help each other. You said: "They have not presented it, because they do not guarantee the support of all parliamentary groups. That they present it, and they will surely be able to modify this element. I believe that there have also been direct messages from the same government of the State, which does not want to..., says: "We will amend it in part. But they clearly said not to withdraw it. I, in this..., who present it, believe that the whole Parliament is aware of which is the position of the Councillor and the Government of the Generality respect the situation of the prevalence of agreements, respect the need to amend Article 42, respect to which they have assumed, of job insecurity, the last labor reforms. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Everyone's not aware, and I'm telling some of this Faristol to introduce her. I'm sure, introducing her...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.45.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.46.0	...we will take a step forward in the best of the working conditions of the workers of the Spanish State, because we have no problem in that all better...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.47.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.48.0	...and, especially, Catalonia. Thank you. Thank you, President, for your apologies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.49.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on social deprivation]] [[300-00037/12]] The next question is about social deprivation. The formula of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and, on behalf of itself, presents the question to Mrs Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.50.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, counselor. I suppose you will recall that, in June 2017, I called on your predecessor for the great social unprotectiveness to which she had subjected us. And more than a year later, then, the situation has not only not reversed, but has worsened. Poverty risk indicators have worsened. According to the Idescat, one_of_each_five Catalans, live at risk of poverty. And the disastrous management that is being done of guaranteed citizenship income, as it has not helped to alleviate this situation. Violations of the law, such as positive administrative silence or improperly justified denials, are repeated. I suppose you will also remember that, on the same day that I called on your predecessor for social unprotection, the managers of the residences and the workers who care for our elders were protesting at the doors of this Parliament, against the management of the Generalitat, asking for a little dignity for the sector and the users. And at that time, Catalonia was the second autonomous community in Spain with the highest waiting lists in dependence, which was already to put itself red. But, a year later, we became champions on waiting lists, being Catalonia the region of Spain with the longest waiting lists in dependence. And it is that the neglect of the addiction sector is one of the bloodiest and that is due, among other things, because you fail to comply with the Social Services Act, which obliges you to update the social services portfolio every four years. And it's been 12 years and we're still holding the same wallet. And people who follow us from home will wonder why some of us are stuck in this update of the social services portfolio. And it is because of the fact that we have an out-of-date portfolio that, among other things, professional ratios are not adequate and economic modules are out-of-date. And in the meantime, everything has gone up: VAT, supplies, and residences do not cover expenses, workers see their jobs precariously and users of residences have seen how the quality of care they receive has fallen. And there have been cases, in residences, where a caregiver was responsible for up to thirty people. And yesterday, in those moments spa of the control session to the government, in which the members of your parliamentary group, because they ask you those massage questions, then..., of course, right? , I'll give you a..., I'll touch you here, counselor, that I know you're going to like it, but not here, because I can kiss you, and of course, they asked you a custom question, so you could go to the Ubeda Hills, but today you're not going to escape, counselor. Answer me: when do you plan to update the social services portfolio to meet today's needs, and to meet the needs of users? And I would also like to ask you, Counselor, if you are going to follow in the line of your predecessor, to be interested in the sector only because of the process? Because, of course, I suppose at this point you should already know that the former Government, not only was content with harassing officials, but they also dared with entities and residences, calling home directors, to enter their taxes into the Catalan farm. And we'd like to know if you're going to do this, too. I'm afraid they're going to stay away from reality, and unprotecting the citizenry. And set the distance between your reality, the reality of the government, and the reality there is, outside these walls. Because... last Wednesday, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we voted on a proposal calling for an increase in the number of places in the day centres of a municipality in Tarragona, Roda de Berà, and his parliamentary group voted against it, arguing that the council had informed him that there was not enough demand in the people. Well, let's see if you're away from reality, which gave the chance that that same morning, neighbors of that town, Roda de Berà, were registering in Parliament more than 1,200 signatures of citizens asking for the extension of places to care for the elderly, huh? A few meters, huh? Where were you denying that these squares were necessary, huh? What world do you live in, counselor? Get out of the process and pay a little attention to what's going on in Catalonia and, get out of the process and look beyond. And see how the disability sector is doing. Is this the legislature in which the sector of special employment centres, which gives work to persons with disabilities, is given tranquillity? Because as to divide they are given very well, with their cuts, with the modification of criteria of distribution of aid, their violations of the state rules of subsidies for which the entities have taken them to the courts, because what they have managed to do is to leave the sector in half, because to come from trade unionism, because they make too much use of the old tactics of the employer, making belonging to that of: divide and you will win. Can you state that you are not going to implement any policy that will lead to the loss of jobs for persons with disabilities? Because those of us who closely observe the movements of the council, are terrified, terrified with the cuts of the sector. Because in order to protect groups with special difficulties, what needs to be done is to raise to 75_per_cent the interprofessional minimum wage subsidy and not cut the remaining 25 people with disabilities, which is what you have done. Are they going to deploy the Catalan Sign Language Act and provide it with a sufficient budget? Have you stopped to think about the situations faced by deaf people because of the lack of interpreters? Because in Lleida there is only one interpreter, for the whole province. And of course, if a deaf person... we're gonna put ourselves in a position, he has to ask the doctor for an hour, he has to call to ask for an interpreter, right? Or, well, you have to ask him. Waiting for the interpreter to have a space to accompany him to the CAP, to request that visit from the doctor. Once you already have a day and a time to visit, you have to ask for an interpreter again, to accompany you on the day you have to go to the doctor. If that day, the interpreter has no gap, which usually happens, because there is only one in the entire province of Lleida, because he has to ask another interpreter again, to accompany him back to the CAP to change his appointment. And do you realize the institutional abuse that this entails, that such a situation is unsustainable? Counselor..., is he aware, too, that we are champions in child poverty? Why do parties supporting your Government vote against any initiative calling for increased investment in children? Why has this permanent paralysis of the Government in all matters related to children been compounded by the increase in the arrival of unaccompanied minors, which has already collapsed the miscarriage of the child's guardianship system? And look, last year, when the opposition groups asked him about the outbursts of that legislature, which were countless, the dismantling of a network of sexual exploitation that captured underprivileged children; the union criticisms; the case of Ricardo Calvo; the oversaturated reception centres, with children who were already sleeping in the corridors of the centers; the case of the children of the tail; for you accused us of yellowing, so that we would stop talking about the subject and stop focusing on something as important as child care. And by then, the center directors warned us that they were getting calls from this council, urging them to put mattresses on the floor, huh? And with this background, we're not surprised what's going on with unaccompanied minors. And look, some of us already warned him, huh? My parliamentary group presented, at the beginning of 2017, a proposal to increase resources for unaccompanied minors, because the increase in the arrival of these children was evident. And you know what you did? Nothing, huh? And it is not surprising that the chickens that ride in the centers, which are titular, day and day also, are assembled, and it is not because we do not have professionals capable and well prepared, but because their counseling, therefore, has them in conditions that are at all adequate, because they lack resources to be able to carry out an efficient educational action. Think, too, of those professionals. And look, of course, the intimacy of minors is sacred, but in the alarming cases of minors who have slept in the City of Justice and in the police stations, having to eat, in many cases, the charity of the Mossos, which provided them with what they could; in the face of this alarming lack of protection by the Administration, which should protect them, the opposition has the duty and the obligation to react and push you to take action, so that these things do not happen. Counselor: Are you going to get the minors off the floor of the police stations, yes or no? Because, even if you deny it, the information that comes to us is that many of them continue to sleep in the police stations. After years of promises and powerpoints, in Catalonia we have a chronic problem with the various governments, because in this Parliament very necessary laws are passed, some which have been pioneers in social rights, but which remain on wet paper, because after taking the photo and leaving in all the headlines, they are kept in a drawer and do not deploy, eh? , since the Government is on other issues that have nothing to do with protecting the citizen, because it seems that this Government is more concerned with turning the Generalitat into the headquarters of choirs and dances than with deploying the approved laws. And dancing is very good because it is very healthy, but, counselor, between dancing and dancing, are you going to update the portfolio of social services? Will they deploy the Accessibility Act? Are you going to deploy the Catalan Sign Language Act? Between dancing and dancing, are you going to find a space to deploy the Children's Act, which since 2010 has no regulations? Because there are no external enemies here that make it difficult, these laws are the competence of the Generalitat, it is the responsibility of its councillor, and if they do not it is because it does not give them the will. And the laws not only have to be passed, but what needs to be done is to create them, to believe them – to believe them – and to provide them with the human and economic resources necessary to guarantee the rights they collect. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.51.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.52.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors..., street deputy, no..., yes..., she was fully aware that they were making this inquiry on July 27, 2017. Just like..., see if he was aware that I will say a phrase to him – I don't know if he will remember – : « One thing is that they don't like how we manage the public policy of the social welfare of the country, but it seems totally out of place that you want to make the citizenry believe that today, in this country, the system is a disaster, people don't respond and you serve and that there is no type of institutional support. Does that sound like that? Does that ring a bell? Counselor Bassa answered it. Because, as he was not fully aware, I have looked at him and I see that we are not coming out of a frame; from a frame that I believe is delegitimizing a very important part of the work that has the obligation, it would just be missing! all opposition, government control, parliamentary initiatives. But, of course, when what you're doing is a very linked exercise species... it's been impossible for you not to talk about the process, yes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They always tell us that we're only talking about this, but you, in this inquiry, didn't have to talk about it; I suppose it's usual. But, at the same time, they do so from the very perspective that when we talk about the right collection we have the citizens of this country who can win a democratic collection project for the ballot box; they do so from the same logic, which is the logic of the confrontation, which is the logic of trying to polarize as much as possible. And it's not... – and I think you know me – it's not the kind of politics I do or the kind I support. From here on, you have been placing various aspects. Even so, it has had the ability to donate little importance, to minimize... – I suppose it's because they don't have municipal responsibility –, to minimize the social service program contract. He did. I suppose that's it: because they don't have any municipal responsibility, they're not able to value what it means to make a commitment of 814_millions and to end up with a commitment of over 900_millions. They do not know how to value what it means, for all the assemblies of this country, that they are the first line that the citizens of this country have reached, the increment in the contract program. I understand that I don't..., because they're not aware of it – they're not aware of it. In all your speech, you haven't told me anything about preventive policies. This also forms part of the political difference between you and us. We have an obsession that the best social policy is preventive. And that's why we're strengthening basic support teams with more than 850 people. You can say that it's nothing. It's legitimate, it's just lacking, all the criticism. Now, minimizing the import of the program contract is minimizing the import of local spaces; of the political color that it is – because I assure you that I find together all the political colors, except for their why they don't have them; but I find myself with all the political colors. And I am very aware of the importance of the basic social services work, of the importance of promoting aspects like SIS, which is a better investment in preventive policies for children, with the importance of introducing programs and new strategies around families, with the importance that educators and social educators, workers and social workers have of having a support on the part of managers and can devote one hundred_percent of their work to work with vulnerable people. Also, you told me about dependency. What he hasn't said is how finance depends. You're funny, aren't you? because they have this great ability to forget about it, and not explain what it is that we invest in dependence and who invests it. Because, of course, you've been supporting a government in the state, and we haven't seen any change. It has not been possible to explain that the dependence, for every 10_euro, 7_euro is on the Government of the Generality, 2_euro is on the people who have these services with the co-payment, and 1_euro is on the Government of the Central Administration. That's not a good way to explain it. At this time, they haven't done it either. Of course, he placed me: "You have done nothing, only think about the process. From March 2016 to September 2018 we have passed, in dependence, from 137,610 beneficiaries to 168,518 beneficiaries, in all their areas; a 22,5_per_cent. And we could go into active benefits: an increase of 19, 5_per_cent; we could talk about day centres for people with disabilities, with an increase of 18,1_per_cent; we could talk about living space, with an increase of 21,6_per_cent; we could talk about mental health habitats, with an increase of 207,1_per_cent. And that's not to say that it's the first one to say here that we have many reptes – that we have many reptes – in this environment, that we have the strip of reptes in this environment, with people in the center, and that we are aware of the difficulties in the deployment of dependence. Now, we are also aware of why these difficulties are generated and we are also aware of the efforts we are making. It's just like the special work centers. Look, I can discuss whether or not they agree with the model we're planting. They've got all the right, I'd just miss it, not agreeing with the model we're setting up. There's all the right, it's just missing. Now, of course, let me know what you're telling me, when we're from the few territories that make us close to support the special work centers, that we're always close to... we're always compared to 2010. Ah, so, in pro bono, 2011, we did 29_millions, almost 30: 29,8, and now we're in 33_millions_i_mig of pro bono. Ah, let's go see the Sectoral Conference. 2011 was 56_millions, now at 50. We see that, don't we? - We see. Finally, he says: "Workplaces will be eliminated. Curious, because, of course, with this drama that we've done..., they've increased, work places in special work centers, this past year. And that doesn't mean we're betting on a model change, we're already working with the sector, and we're aware of the difficulty, but we're very clear – we're very clear. We're a different society every time. We are a society that addresses very different situations of the people to whom we belong, of the people who form part of them. Having a unified view..., uniformer – I don't know the word –, uniform of people with disabilities, disregarding the special difficulties, I think it's a mistake as the government. And that's what we do. Ah, but I've never listened here, have I? , claim that this 50_percent of the minimum wage, with the sectoral conference arrives, which is what should be done. Well, we won't. He told me... – he told me about so many things that I can't touch everything – he told me about MENA. I'm not talking about Menas. I'm talking about teenagers and young migrants without adult or family references. Because the MENA word is a species of category with which we crucify, it's a way to situate it. It is curious that I did not reflect on these 38_millions of the decree of the State, of which only 2 came to Catalonia and which did not take into account what, for us, is the key criterion, which is: the young, the children who are in the protection system..., not the register of arrivals, because in the end we have those who are in the protection system. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] About childhood...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.53.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.54.0	Yeah. On childhood and guaranteed income, in the reply I will just explain, as at least, to lay my vision on what he has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.55.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer is the return of another round of the congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.56.0	Well, as I told you, of course, you're used to those massage questions, and of course, when they give the government real control, well, of course, it happens to you that... you haven't answered me because you can't answer me. Poverty indicators have increased in Catalonia. Dependent, despite all this data you've given, we've become champions on dependency waiting lists. And in child poverty, therefore, we are, as we are also: at the head of Spain in child poverty. And, look, you tell me about the municipal world. Start by listening to your councillors from the big municipalities; councillors who are in the government, who complain about the management of your council, eh? He hasn't answered me. Will the social service portfolio be updated? Is the Accessibility Act going to be implemented? Are you going to deploy the Catalan Sign Language Act and provide the budget? Will the loss of jobs for persons with disabilities be avoided? And excuse me, look, you said I talked about Menas. Take my intervention and see if I have said the word MENAS. No, I said, in any case, 'unaccompanied minors. And you know what? , who categorizes it is his government, which calls us « mad beasts. So, please, be a little careful. [[Greetings.]] Childhood. Are the staff of DGAIA going to increase, staff who are very abandoned? Are you aware that the situation in which the workers are in..., how are they suffering in those centers for the abandonment of the Generalitat? Instead of having children under guardianship parked in resourceless centers, will they conceive of them as therapeutic spaces and equip them with infrastructure? Will they make the work easier for the professionals and put in their hands the necessary tools to enable them to carry out their work? And look, don't tell me about the Dependency Act, we all know the underfunding you have and we recognize it. But there are other autonomous communities with the same economic constraints that have put everything on their side and all the resources needed to reduce those waiting lists. And here in Catalonia they have increased. Now we're champions, I remind you. When will flexibility in ratios be eliminated so that those caring for our elders do not see their dedication to supporting their users and having to care for just one person to thirty? What are you going to do, to break with that wage freeze to which the care workers are subjected by their continuous cuts? Last year, in the interpellation I made to Constellera Bassa, a delegation of residential workers came and had to leave without an answer. Nor will they have it today? And with regard to disability, look, your model is the sector's defaults. And, look, when we asked you about these defaults, you've always blamed 155, because, of course, that is, they're very good at making excuses, not so much at making solutions. But it's just, look, this is the model, this is your disability model, this is what you're doing with the sector. Look: "Special employment centres protest the cuts of the Generalitat – this is from last year in September, huh? , before 155 –, « The Generalitat owes 33_million to persons with disabilities– Catalans–, « The non-payment of aid faces social entities and Generalitat – 2015–, « The Government left without paying 16_million to five_ thousand persons with disabilities. This is your model for disability care. Look, in Catalonia we are well below the average of the spending that communities invest in social services and social promotion. And this is your decision. When you start making the budget, you decide what percentage goes for social care, and in Catalonia only 6.79_per_cent of your budget went to social services and social promotion. It's way below average, and we're talking about so many percent. So let's not talk about "no funds coming in. No, of the funds that we have, the Government of the Generalitat allocates..., that is, the percentage that it allocates is below the Spanish average, we are in eleventh place! You cut into meetings, protocol discussions, sub-contracts – now that you are going to put the budget –, in expenditure on publications, on institutional advertising, on high-ranking positions, on advisors to your finger, on the IT bubble of the CTiTI – which we all already know for what they want it for –, you delete the departure of the former presidents of government, you delete the CAC – that quiringuite enchufapoliticos in disuse – you delete the Cesicat and the procedural propaganda of Mr Maragall, who has already announced that he will open the embassies again... Get money out of there, you dedicate what really matters, to what can improve people's lives. Look, finally, today you have the opportunity to start telling the truth, to stop shielding yourself always in 155 to cover the disastrous management [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] of the council, of recognizing that while they were building their imaginary republic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.57.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.58.0	...dismantling the state of well-being.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.59.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.60.0	I want to finish my speech in the same way that I ended in July 2017 and that, unfortunately, it is still necessary to remind you: less to embezzle the money of all Catalans with their independence performances...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.61.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.62.0	...and more attention to disability, poverty or discrimination, less money for independence and more money for attention to dependency. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.63.0	For the answer, counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.64.0	Thank you, President. Look, Congresswoman, you're getting something that's very... that's very... that's fine with me, huh? Because... it's that I look at the five minutes and it's already four fifty-three, and I say, "How long do I have to beat a little bit of this idea that you have – apart from the fact that education doesn't keep it, but well... – the idea that you have... Because in the background it's the same..., in any of the areas, the speech is the same, it's prepared. That is to say, Members and Members: did they hear me talking at some point during my intervention in 155, in the first intervention? Did they hear me talk? Hey, what's up? Okay. They felt me talking about the republic – and, yes, soc republic and defending the republic in Catalonia – did they feel me talking about the republic? No, no, Do you see how much it's all written? That's the thing that's worse – and I feel like it – is what's hard for me to know, that it's the use of reptiles with the most vulnerable people in the country to maintain a political relationship that they have very clearly, and that won't change, and that, in response to what they answer, they care enough a little. And I think that we should think about it. From here, my dear, do you know how many millions of contingency funds we have approved since June, in what form is this government constituted, so far for the care of infants and adolescents migrated without family references? Do you know? No, because you're not interested – because you're not interested. EUR 30 million. Look, I have virtues and I have flaws, like everyone else; but one of the virtues I have is an interesting enough language word. And this allows me to go to the centers where these young people are, that 85_per_cent are of Moroccan origin, I talk to them and I can talk to them directly and I can ask them: "Why did you come? How was the trial? How are you? , etcetera. I do this exercise, I have this advantage, I can do it – I can do it. And, look, I know we have a lot of faces. Now, I can tell you that these guys, from the protection system in Catalonia, don't talk about it badly; that in many cases they make it clear that it's a good system, and in many cases, in their migrating project, they have decided in which system they want to be. And that's it. And soc aware of passing from a few three hundred, four hundred young to pass..., the 1st of October we have surpassed three thousand. This tensiones the childhood system, it is clear that it tensiones the childhood system, it is clear that the generation of places to give answer... Because what we have very clearly is that we do not differentiate the youngest by origin, with which the generation of places in the childhood system, with all that this generation of places entails, is more complex. Now, everyone's entering the protection system. And we're doing it, and it's with the professional effort, it's with the effort of those gatherings that you don't know, it's with the effort of the entities, it's with that effort. You were talking about politics to people with disabilities. Yes, that's why we are the only ones who will now do something that has not been done to the Spanish State, in no way, that is to evaluate legislation and public policies according to the United Nations Disability Rights Convention, which will be the diagnostic element that will enable us to cope with what is to be the full route for people with disabilities. That too... but they won't do it, they won't value it. Just as they did not value the work that has been going on from 65,000 beneficiaries in the minimum income of insertion to 115,000 with guaranteed income, and with the problems that have occurred in the deployment. Why? Because you, who was a layer of the law, also know that a progressive deployment has been agreed until 2020, but we do not forget quickly. There are so many ambits, so many ambits in which...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.65.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.66.0	... I could discuss it, I am aware of... – yes, President, I am now finished – I am aware of the reptes, I could discuss his report. But in the background, as I'm aware, what they're doing is a report, and it's the same report they're doing in all the political arenas, which is the story of confrontation, it's the story of not looking for solutions, it's the story of some people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.67.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.68.0	...that they have never taken responsibility for government, nor do I care too much for not having been able to do it in time... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the treatment of inmates of Catalan prisons]] [[300-00038/12]] The next question is about the treatment given to the inmates of the Catalan penitentiary centres, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The formula is Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.70.0	Yes, thank you, President. Bon dia MPas, MPas, Councillors, Constellera Capella. We repeat; we repeat because already in the previous plenary I asked you this same question, which I also made very precisely, very concisely, and I told you whether you could assure me that the prisoners of the trial are receiving exactly the same treatment as the rest of the inmates. Of course, one, naively, thinks that when he asks such a question, precise, concrete, that the answer, then, will be in the same line. But no; it's just that you didn't even answer me. One thing that seems to be fashionable in the ranks of his government; yesterday we saw him with the president of the Generalitat, with that show that he gave here, regrettably, that he asks to appear, but then hides behind the vice president in order not to answer. Wow, snotty. That is what he did with the invaluable help of the President of Parliament who interprets the Rules of Procedure in this way, as he sees it, is it not? A little like you do with the prison regulations. I'll explain the prison regulations. Look, with the regulations in hand, Mrs. Capella, putting us in the best of scenarios, interns have five vis a vis per month at most. That is, five visits to the maximum is what any intern can aspire to, any intern who is not a party partner of his, so it seems, you go to the earth or you don't go to the earth. And I'm telling you this because of that message that Mr. Basté sent me from Junqueras after visiting him in prison. Oh, look, I guess this visit would count it, wouldn't it? , within these five vis a vis, because as you tell me they're so strict with the regulations... but, of course, what's going on? Which doesn't square the numbers, Mrs. Capella. Up to twenty - one visits, we have seen, twenty - one visits in the same day! That this doesn't need to be confirmed or not, because we've all seen it, headlines with their corresponding photo next door. So, on the basis of what rule of procedure are you allowed up to twenty-one visits a day, Mrs Capella? Because I guess the rest of the interns will be interested in knowing this article to use it too, so they can receive visits to tutiplen. Come on, you're going to be the most beloved counselor for the prison population. As I was told the other day in the parliamentary seat, right here in plenary, Mrs Capella, those visits – up to twenty-one visits on the same day, which is what is said soon – are made within the framework of a right that tells me they have the authorities. I read exactly what he told me; he said to me: "Yes, in Catalonia, like the rest of the democratic countries, the authorities have the obligation and the right to visit the prisoners and to visit the prisoners, and he added: "What no one from his parliamentary group – no one – has ever done, visit the prisoners. We're going to go through parts with the phrase, because it's not wasted. I'll start with this last part, huh? , « nothing that none of your parliamentary group – no one – has ever done, visit the prisons. Man, counselor, don't lie, it's ugly, huh? , why is it that my parliamentary group..., myself, huh? I went to visit the Catalan prisons. But you also know perfectly well, Mrs. Capella, that in the first meeting that you and I had with your chief of staff, moreover, when they appointed you a counselor, the first thing I did was express my desire to go back to visit the Catalan prisons. And you know what they said to me? That he did not ask for it individually, that we would come up with a proposal that we should go together to the groups to visit the prisons. And he tells me, he reproaches me that we have not gone! Man, you gotta have a face, huh? Mrs. Capella. But I go on, I go on with the analysis of the sentence, because it has crumbs. It says that ‘here, as in other democratic countries, the authorities have the obligation and the right to visit prisoners. Look, if for the rest of the democratic countries it refers to Narnia, then yes, there must have those rights and obligations, because what is here already I tell you no, eh? For starters: journalists, businessmen, trade unionists... what kind of authority are they, Mrs. Capella? What kind of authority? I'm telling you, according to the prison regulations, none. We go with the authorities: Torra, Torrent, advisers, deputies who are going..., what the prison regulations allow are visits by authorities to the prisons; not to the inmates: to the prisons. And, look: « Diada's institutional visit to Carme Forcadell in the prison of Mas d'Enric, « Torra, Torrent and Aragonès visit the prisoners in Lledoners to prepare for the new political course. That's not visits to the centers, that's visits to specific inmates. But it is that, moreover – in addition – no authority can go in that capacity of authority either: only those who have competence over Catalan prisons. So, Mrs. Colau, who visits the independent prisoners; Urkullu, who visits Junqueras in the prison of Lledoners; the councillors, the ex-advisers, etc., neither – nor – are competent authorities in those prisons. Not to mention Mr Otegi, who visits in Lledoners the Catalan politicians prisoners; he is the one who came here to make that defense yesterday, huh? Or Mr. Pablo Iglesias. Look, without time limit, without caches and with advisors, so I visited Churches to Junqueras. Come on, no time, no time limit, no glass, no cache... What was Mr. Churches for? To see how the conditions of inmates in Catalan prisons are? No, no, To talk and see the problems of prison staff? Neither. No, no, Mr. Iglesias was as an emissary of the government to negotiate a shameful prison pact, to exchange budgets for pardons, impunity, which is what you want and what you are looking for. Mrs. Capella, are you going to tell me on what basis these visits are being allowed? Who is authorizing these visits? Are they authorized by the directors of the centers? Is the general address authorizing them? Who? The Director General of Prisons? You? Who is authorizing these visits? I ask you to explain this to me, and since I have no hope that you will do so, because the other day you did not reply to me either – we already know each other, Mrs Capella – I will ask you in writing all these questions and also the resolution, if there is, where this decision is based, because I already tell you that they are neither authorities in most cases nor are they visits to the centres in any of the cases. I also say to you: if you have an interest in visiting prisons, do not go to Lledoners, no, go to Quatre Camins, which falls into cachos – which falls into cachos – so much so that you tell me to go to prisons. Go and see what conditions you have there for officials and inmates. Go and do your job, because that's not even why they take advantage of the visitors. When you go – when you go – take advantage of the visit, ask the officials what they think they are going to collect their wages fourteen years later, ask them. Or when you go, take advantage, take a look at the average age of the staff who are doing surveillance functions in the courtyards, see if they are already aware of the problem they have with the aging of the staff at once. And, by the way, Mrs. Capella, if you're going to answer me, as you always do, that I'm questioning the work of the officials, save him, because I'm putting in doubt is yours, yours as the ultimate responsible for the prisons in Catalonia. I don't even want to imagine the pressure that officials have to be under by receiving political orders from you, I don't want to imagine what the officials that have to go through, to go to their work, those stays that mount there the separatist commands, at the gates of prisons, that, by the way, invade the perimeter of the security centers, but you allow it, of course, yes, you don't give a damn. Stop putting the staff in such conditions, stop putting the staff between the sword and the wall. That's all right. And, speaking of officials, by the way, there is already a complaint from a head of service in Lledoners that shows – it shows – all these... – Mrs.Capella, please listen, if not later, of course, you can't answer me – all this treatment of favor given to prisoners. What steps have you taken to deal with this complaint? What have they done? Have you made any inquiries about this? Look, if those people who visit the prisoners day and day also go as authorities, as you tell me they go, following the rules of Matrix that follow you, why when this Member, why when my group, myself, I ask you to report visits by the members of the Government and the senior officials of the Generalitat, who are doing, as you say, carrying out these visits as authorities, why do you deny it to me? Because that is a right that all Members of Parliament, as set out in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, have to ask and ask for information about what the members of the Government or the other senior officials are doing as authorities, is it not? I mean, going to jail to talk to Junqueras twenty times is neither a right nor a regulation, but let the government inform us of its activity as a government is, but you deny it to me. I have it here, this is one of so many requests I've made where you refuse to give me that information. That is to say, you again trample on the legitimate rights of Members of this Parliament, who are experts, you, in doing this. Do you know why you deny it to me? Yes, you know it very well – you know it very well – because you don't want it to go beyond the favor treatment that is being given to the prisoners of the process, no more or less, Mrs. Capella. Transparency in this Government is evident in its absence. That we have to seek protection from the Bureau on many occasions, with the linguistic projects of the centres, with the payments to the American lobby SGR and now also with this subject of visits to the prisons and the inmates, to the prisoners of the process. You don't like being opposed – if we already know it –, that's why you close the Parliament; that's why you want to empty out the contents, the legitimacy, that's why you're riding those little bars that you have, that every time Mr. Torra opens his mouth he creates a new bar... Because you, since you have the keys to the Moncloa, are very comfortable, very comfortable. But do you know what's going on, Mrs. Capella? I will tell you: that the first party in Catalonia, which is Citizens, will never allow you to take away legitimacy from this Parliament. And we will continue to oppose the dignity of our institutions and the Catalans whom we represent. And I'm going to keep asking you, I'm going to ask the Bureau for cover, if it's necessary, so I hope that now, in your turn of reply, you will answer me, because if not, I say, if you're going to wait for me to get tired, wait for me to sit down, Mrs. Capella. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question has the word Constellera Ester Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.72.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mrs Roldán, honourable Member, you do not ask me about the treatment given to the inmates of the Catalan penitentiary centres. You don't care what treatment is given to people deprived of liberty in Catalan prisons. Because you are not a question of imprisonment or the concept of imprisonment, or of provisional imprisonment, an unjustified and disproportionate pre-trial detention; it is not a question of innocent persons, who have not been tried or convicted, being subject to the same treatment as persons who are carrying out criminal or criminal offences; it is also a question of not having their personal circumstances taken into account in issuing provisional detention. Madam Member, 15 days ago I also asked her a question, and asked her, "Do you think that arresting her is a privilege? Are you really still thinking about it? Can you really keep this up? Being in prison without a sentence being dictated is a privilege? Is it normal for innocent people to be in prison? Mrs Roldán, you, who is a senator for the appointment of this Parliament, this Parliament, the Parliament of Catalonia..., you need this institution and the Generality of Catalonia when you did what you did two days ago in the Senate. You asked the Minister of Interior, Mr. Grande-Marlaska, about the treatment of prisoners in Catalan prisons. Miri, honourable senator, has certainly expressed her wishes, but I say this: Article 155 is not in force today. I know that you would want this Parliament to be dissolved again, but Article 155, as I said, is no longer in force. It is the Government of the Government of Catalonia, this councillor, who manages prison services. I know he doesn't like it; I know he doesn't like it. It is to this Parliament and not to the Senate, which the Government is responsible for controlling the functioning of prison services in Catalonia. We know that you, that you conceive of this institution as a trampoline to be parliamentarians to the Spanish General Courts. You'd like the department I run to have no competence in prison services... Well, neither in prison services nor in the administration of justice, in democratic memory, nor in any other sphere. In fact, you would want the Council of Justice not to have reason to be. It is more, to you that really bothers them is the Government of Catalonia; you and your parliamentary group, Ciutadans, want to liquidate the self-government of Catalonia. That's what you want. I mean, they'd want us to disappear with the country. I said it fifteen days ago and I will repeat it again today and the times it takes: in Catalonia, like the rest of democratic countries, the public authorities, the political authorities, have the right – yes, ma'am, yes, Mrs Roldán – to visit the prisons. It's a right, yes, but it's also their duty, it's their duty, it's our duty, the duty you have as public servants in the exercise of their functions. But while you and the rest of your members of your parliamentary group are dedicated to announcing that prisoners and political press enjoy privileges, you have not bothered to visit – yes, yes – nor to ask for a visit from a prison or a pre-emptive prison or anyone else who is currently serving sentences in the Catalan penitentiary centres. Indeed, honourable Member, if the situation of people who are unjustly deprived of their liberty is so altered, go and see them, visit them. If you have the authority..., you have the faculty to go there. If he cares so much about getting a favor, go and look and see it directly at you, if these statements you make are true. But it's all about you, it's about you, it's about you, it's about you, it's about you, it's about you, it's about you, it's about you, it's about you, it's about you, it's You're talking about the general knowledge of the reality that is lived in the Catalan penitentiary centres. Who was his answer to the letter that political prisoners sent him? Well, in any case, his head of file, Mr. Rivera, has returned it. In the face of his insinuations about alleged privileges, in this letter he says, and I read literally: "You are institutional staff who are able to visit a prison centre if they wish to do so. We would like to see that when you visit Lledoners, you can prove firsthand if we are prisoners with privileges, well, talking to ourselves, well, talking to other interns in the center with whom we live daily. And, in the past, you will be able to evaluate the good name of the Catalan penitentiary services, won thanks to the professional pocket of their public servers. Well, his head of files, as I said, Mr. Albert Rivera – he no longer let you challenge Mrs. Arrimadas, he replied – did not cheat to say that they did not intend to visit the Catalan prisoners. Are they really interested in knowing the situation in which they find themselves and the treatment of Catalan political prisoners and prisoners? Do you want to know? Vagina to see 'em. Miri, Congresswoman, we're doing the right thing. Or is it that you insinuate – yes, yes, when you do this insinuate – that the Catalan prison professionals are not doing their job well? We are in addition to the prison regulations, the General Prison Law, the directives that the European Community has in place, which the International Commission for the Prevention of Torture and all the bodies, all the international bodies that tell us how to manage our prison services. I'm sure you don't have much time – you don't have much time – to know what you think, what the legislator wanted when he legislated the General Prison Law, what he expects from our prison centers. I'm sure you're not interested in this at all. I want to value the work of thousands of public workers. They are excellent professionals who work with absolute integrity and with absolute respect for their size of public service and the regulations in force, and who feel neither coerced nor directed for whom they are speaking. And here today you question the public officials, the thousands of public officials of the prison services, who do their job well and who keep people deprived of their liberty as they should: respecting their fundamental rights – respecting their fundamental rights – that they have all their integrity, they only have freedom. When you only have to ask, you can visit any prison in Catalonia as soon as you want. That's right, whenever he or she wants you to. And so you can prove yourself that what I'm saying is true. The fact that you are not interested, you are not interested or interested in knowing first-hand who is the reality of the Catalan penitentiary services. I'm done, Congresswoman. It is true that there are many political and public authorities who, unlike you, are interested in knowing the treatment given to persons deprived of liberty at the Catalan penitentiary centres. And yes, certainly innocent people, unjustly engaged, are visited by many public authorities. But despite your and your parliamentary group's weight, it's just that there are so many public and political authorities visiting the press and prisoners showing that we have political prisoners and press. It is the clearest and most obvious finding that they are political prisoners. And when we want to talk about the prison system and the Catalan penitentiary services, which we have many things to explain, because we are a reference service here, to Spain and the world. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, has the word the deputy Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.74.0	Yes, thank you, President. See, Mrs. Capella, you haven't answered me. I mean, he doesn't answer me in writing, he denies me, and he doesn't answer me here, he didn't answer me the other day either. He does not answer me, because you do not want to answer me, because you know perfectly well that you are giving a favor to the prisoners, the prisoners of the process. Because whoever shuts up, grants, Mrs. Capella, and you make it clear, and comes here and makes this justification. Of course, as for you they are political prisoners and they are unjustly imprisoned, because then you see that that gives you the power to do whatever you want, to give you the permissions you need, to put you a dispatch there in Lledoners or in More Enric, what you need, right? Of course, that's what I came here to explain. In fact, it's been ten minutes with this argument, hasn't it? Look, I'm gonna tell you something. You told me that I would like the Justice Department to have no jurisdiction. No, no, what I would like is for the Department of Justice to do its job, without skipping the prison regulations, without skipping the regulations, because here it is you who despises the institutions, who skip the rules; it is you who hit democracy; it is you who have closed the Parliament; it is you who want to empty this Parliament of content and legitimacy, riding bars every two by three; it is you who despise this institution of Parliament. It's you. [[Greetings.]] And they came here, they came here, and they made fun of court decisions, they made selfies with the warnings of the Constitutional Court... Wow, the normal thing, what any citizen does when he gets a court ruling, get fucked, come here, break it, mount the performance they put up here, huh? I mean, what were you expecting? We were warning them until the last moment, I remember it perfectly: the president of my group, Mrs Arrimadas, until the last moment asking them not to go that way. And they didn't listen. And now they're surprised and complaining. And you tell me – which you told me the other day too – that I do not question that your personal circumstances have not been taken into account to agree on provisional detention. What circumstances are these, which, in your view, make them different from other remand prisoners? That they are politicians? Are those the circumstances? That they're friends of yours? What circumstances are these? That is to say, what do you think, that with the Minutes of the Member of Parliament comes a bracelet of those of "all inclusive, of those of the hotels, of bar free of impunity? Is that what you think? Because they act like this. I really insist on it again... besides, there is no political persecution here. You tell me: "Go and visit the political prisoners. It's just that there isn't, it's just that I can't go and visit the political prisoners, because there are no political prisoners here, Mrs. Capella. I do not tell you alone, I am also told by those German court rulings which you invoke so much; they also make it very clear to you that there is no political persecution of any kind. Read all the resolutions, which remain only with the parties they like. I will insist again on the questions, because you have not answered any – none. I have already told you that I am not going to tire of asking: on the basis of what article of the Prison Rules are these visits being authorized? Also more small: how many transfers, for example, were agreed in module 2 of Lledoners when the prisoners of the process arrived? And why were these transfers made, Mrs Capella? On the complaint of the official, of the head of services: he has also not told me what they are doing. Have they carried out any kind of action, research? And information, I tell you, also serious, like that Mr Junqueras and Mrs Forcadell have up to office and that they hold group meetings there: with the visits they have, the interns meet there – without caches, without time limit. That I've taught him, that he's published by the press, that I don't just say it myself. Explain to me, Mrs Capella, what articles of the Prison Rules, which governs here and in all prisons in the rest of Spain, allow these group meetings of several inmates, with visits that are not hidden from them, eh? Do you have any legal reports to support this kind of action? If you have it, then please ask me to transfer; I will also ask you in writing, eh? Come on, it's just that you're already missing a little bit of a little bit – a little bit of a little bit of a little bit – of the kind that Mr. Torra likes, I don't know: the Commissionat de Lledoners, it could be, for example, isn't it? And let's all go there on a pilgrimage to Lledoners, let's go, as they do now, but with the name of the chiringuito and people plugged in, right? That's what they like. As long as you don't come here, so, hey, go ahead and do it. You seek impunity, but fortunately we are in a democratic country of the 21st century of the European Union. What they have to do is go to the prisons, yes, but go to work, to see the aging of the staff, to see also the precariousness and the temporality of the prison officials – which I told him at his appearance and neither did he answer me –, to see the state of the centers, which literally fall into cachos: Quatre Camins, Ponent, with those problems that have security and electrical problems, that there was even a riot because of a blackout... Work – for something other than the process, Mrs. Capella, for real, and then we can talk about these things, but, for the moment, as they are only dedicated to the process – to the process, to the process, to the process – because we cannot talk about anything else, Mrs. Capella. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.75.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roldán. To finish this inquiry, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.76.0	Mrs. Roldán, answering the amount of trouble you've said in the five minutes is really a huge difficulty. It would take forever to be able to answer the amount of barbarity you have said. Miri, Prison Rules, articles 41 to 49, article 51 of the General Prison Law, European Commission opinions, United Nations opinions... Listen'm, the legal articles must be interpreted, aimed, without restricting rights, because there is no prohibition allowed, and there the international divisions of the bodies are said to be... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, for all persons deprived of liberty. Yes, sir, you have a problem with deprivation of liberty and with the people who are in prison. Don't tell me what are the rights we have to guarantee: all the rights, absolutely all! [[Greetings.]] They only have the right to freedom, Mrs. Roldán. Look, and I'll tell you one more thing: listen to Amnesty International, listen to the hundred, one hundred, fifty-five criminal law professors, constitutionalists, trialists, who question all this that you and your parliamentary group have often said from this rostrum. I should've thrown them in the face of shame. [[Greetings.]] That said, in relation to what you say about a report of a service leader, there are conjectures that are subject to control at these times, to know if they are indeed conjectures – because he does not make statements: conjectures, do not make statements! ; that to see if it becomes clear: conjectures, that you do not affirm – that makes the head of you serve. And in any case, what I would have liked to talk to you here from this rostrum is about the open system and alternative penal measures, which is what we are doing from the prison services, which is what gives us the margin to guarantee and say that the prison services in Catalonia are first-class, first-class. We give data on the open environment, on what success we have of reinsertion into the society of people deprived of liberty: 80_per_cent– 70_per_cent when we are half-open. This is what we dedicate to every day – every day – of our lives. While you're at the head of the Department of Justice, that's what we'll do and work. The mode of participation in the prison centers, which is what very many people don't like, that prisoners and prisoners – prisoners and prisoners – all, not just political prisoners and political prisoners, all Catalan prisoners – can decide which activities they want to do, as they live in the prison center and what they want to do. And sort your future – sort your future. It's a space of opportunity, too, prisons. I know that you don't care about this, and that's why you've been supporting the People's Party all this time, restricting public rights and freedoms. The general visit to the prisons: you don't have to be interested in this. How are the women in the prison centers? Why do women end up in prison? What do they expect when they get out of prison? Do they care about you? They don't care. Because you spoke here today as if you were a spokesman for the unions... no, not the unions: some union in concrete, which did not represent Catalan prisoners. Yes, Mrs. Roldán: I was speaking on behalf of a union that has no representation in Catalonia. The approach of mental health problems to prisoners... does that concern you? What's your concern about this? Does it concern you whether the judicial resolutions of truth contemplate the mental health situation of many persons deprived of liberty? Don't look at it. And we have to give a solution. That's why you're supposed to be asking me at these times here, and it doesn't. This is the job you should do as a parliamentary group. Attention to vulnerable collections, for example. You were talking about Quatre Camins... the DAE. Do you know what the Four Way EAD is? I don't know – I don't know –. I don't know, because we treat people with intellectual disabilities who have ended up in prison and shouldn't be in prison. And when people are in prison with an intellectual disability, it means that those who have intervened before – those who intervened before – have not done their job well. That's why I should be asking, that's what we wouldn't do if we didn't do it and there's no answer. Or the attention to the LGTBI collection in the prisons... that worries you, that's what? They don't care. You – and you, installed in your mantra –... if a minister told you, the Lord Great Marlaska – he told you –. I, look, I'll tell you another thing: I, like the authority, in Madrid – I, like the authority, in Madrid – I've visited Extremera, I've visited Soto del Real and I've visited Alcalá Meco, like the authority, without glass. Yes, sir, yes. I, miri, here have come Euro MPs – Euro MPs – that is moving for all the prisons in Europe without asking permission to enter. See what difference: without asking permission to enter. This is the difference, and this is the model that we would want to be able to do here if we were a state. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.77.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the collapsing of jutjats specialized in clausules only]] [[300-00040/12]] Next, let us turn to item 18 of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on the collapsing of jutjats specialized in solo clauses, which is presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose the inquiry, has the word MP Magda Casamitjana.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.78.0	Thank you very much, President. He will, first of all, thank you for the work you do for the dignity and quality of life of all prisoners and prisoners in Catalonia. Yeah, we want to be a state. One more week, we are witnessing the fall of the credibility of Spanish justice. With the Supreme Court's ruling on mortgages we see, once more, the peril of democracy and the disbelief of the judiciary in the Spanish State, which is placed at the bank's side – once more – as always, and the gang of the powerful and skewered people, against the people. It is in this context that we bring to the plenary a question related to banks and consumers in the case of mortgages, decisions that, in favor of banks, complicate the situation to the courts, harm consumers and impact on the pockets of all taxpayers. We want to talk today, here in Parliament, about the disproposals of the clauses only, which as you know are those clauses provided for in some mortgages that fix the minimum interests that you can pay while the mortgage is in effect. In anticipation of a collapse of the eribor, therefore, the clause fixes a minimum interest per sub from which the mortgage cannot fall. The Supreme Court, in 2013, declared the nullity of the clauses only because they were abusive, and today there are still many unanswered questions, one of the most important, retroactivity. The fact that the Supreme Court's ruling does not provide for situations already resolved by the courts, or the quantities satisfied before the ruling, has caused this time limit to be extended, once more, and to be released, to the Court of Justice of the European Union. On this issue, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a judgment on 21 September 2016 calling for the restoration of the factual and legal situation in which an affected consumer would be found if there were no such types of abusive clauses, and also for the banks to restore this situation in an immediate and effective manner and to make available remedies, procedures and services to meet the demand of the affected consumers. This sentence imposed on the member states – listen, Spain – the obligation to provide adequate and effective means to end the use of unfair only clauses in contracts between professionals and consumers. And it has retroactive effects, because when a clause is declared abusive the consequence must be that it cannot have effects on the consumer and it must be possible to restore the situation that the consumer would have if the clause did not exist. So far still, because the judgment of 21 December 2016 of the Court of Justice of the European Union is a judgment that clearly protects consumers' rights and also obliges the banks to its compliment – escort, another time, Spain. The demand to have a system of return of the import perceived improperly for the banks because not collapsing a judicial system led the Spanish State to draw up the Royal Decree-Law 1/2017, of the 20th generation, of urgent measures of protection of consumers in matter of clauses only. In this decree it is explained that the course of the complaints will be through a free out-of-court complaint procedure to facilitate a speedy and satisfactory solution for the consumer. Banks are obliged to articulate an agile procedure, which allows rapid resolution of consumer complaints. In addition, they are obliged to provide information on the existence of a complaint service on clauses only and its contents. Therefore, the financial entities are, yes, obliged to hold a department or specialized service that aims to answer the complaints filed in the scope of this Royal Decree-Law. And you also have to attend to and resolve complaints filed by your customers within three months. The problem – a more deproposal, I would say – with this decree is that its application allows, here in Spain, banks to have absolute control over the situation, and there is no control of the State over the way it articulates. "Spain is different, let them say. This decree was approved for the Congress of Deputies on the 31st generation with the favorable votes of the bench we have on the right – PP and Citizens and Joint Group – and the abstention of the PSOE – abstention of the PSOE. That's it: abstaining from the PSOE. Moreover, the Supreme Court of the Spanish State clarified, in its judgment of 4 April 2017, the existence of the thing judged in firm judgments of the proceedings completed before the judgment of the European Court of Justice. Therefore, the Spanish State has no retroactive effects in cases prior to the European judgment. Sentences of the treatment of this assumed, on the part of the powers of the Spanish State, have entailed heavy harm to the consumer – heavy harm to the consumer. Banks have power and control over the whole operation. The consumer is greatly harmed, for which reason this extra-judicial and free procedure, which opened up the Royal Decree-Law, is overcome by the consumer's need to find a solution to his problem. And here it is given in 70_percent of the cases to a lawsuit, with attorney and prosecutor costs, as it could not otherwise be, at the expense of the consumer. And a misrepresentation of the time of resolution. One time it was unnecessarily judicializing this issue – remember? Judgement, sounds? – the General Council of the Judiciary added one more problem, because it did not remain: on the activation of the measure of the single provincial court, by means of the agreement of 25 May, it is obliged to specialise and to concentrate the management of applications and resolutions in a limited and unique name per province of first instance courts. In Catalonia there are four first-instance lawsuits that have to be settled on the clauses only. This measure has drawbacks, such as the enlargement of the city's justice, God does not exist, and a very serious consequence, such as the col·lapse of justice. In summary, she will advise: we are concerned about various issues arising from this Royal Decree, approved by the 2017 generation, the Supreme Court's ruling of April 2007 and the May 2007 agreement of the General Council of the Judiciary. Right now, in the Spanish State, there is no obligation to recognize the nullity of all the clauses only, as does the European sense that declares them illegal. Collective applications cannot be submitted; there is no retroactive character in the case provided for in the judgment; the consumer is forced, in 70_percent of the cases, to initiate a legal action, with all economic consequences; it is not possible for banks to offer compensatory measures alternative to actual payment; the consumer is not well informed; we do not know how many clauses have, in this situation, to seek the entity, and, moreover, the judiciary is fully responsible for assuming all responsibilities. In the case of Catalonia, this function assumes a high economic impact for the Generality. That is why our parliamentary group wants to know its vision of this situation. Also knowing if the Government of the Generality, and specifically the Department of Justice, has planned to carry out actions to avoid the collapsing of lawsuits as a result of the regulation of the application of the clauses only. And, before the reaction of the Spanish State, in this case, too, to bring to justice a situation that should have been resolved outside the courts, which is the way of solution that lies from the department that you encapsulate. Once again, make it clear that we want all the competitions in Catalonia to be able to decide. One time it's obvious, too, today with this inquiry, that that's why we want to be a state. Once again, companies and companies, political pressures and exiles – yes, political pressures and political prisoners – there is no crime. Released himself now. Companies and companies, we want you home, here, with us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.79.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, she has, after all, the word Constellera Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.80.0	Well, good morning again. Mrs Casamitjana, honourable Member, I thank her for her intervention, both in terms of the information she has provided and, of course, for the opportunity of her inquiry, at a time when the relationship between banks, consumers, citizens, one another and justice is clearly not going through the better times, and that the role of the Supreme Court has been more than empty. The problems caused by the delay, in the case of the imposition of documented legal acts, pose a further challenge to the independence of the judiciary and, in this particular case, to the disadvantage of consumers in a problem that confronts them with the bank. The question that you raise impacts, as very well has raised, in a very negative way, in this case, in the saturation of the judicial system. From the economic point of view it is pernicious, from the point of view of the citizenry it has been deplorable and this judicialization was absolutely unnecessary, since the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union made it clear that it was necessary to restore the situation in which a consumer was affected by these abusive clauses. The retroactivity and the necessity of the banks to restore the situation are elements that clearly show which was to be the way of solution – which was to be the way of solution. This retroactivity, however, is already in question because of the judgment, the later judgment of the Supreme Court, not because of the imposition of documented legal acts, but because of the earlier, abusive clauses, which decide that the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the Spanish State does not have effect in the cases before that judgment. Therefore, it limits the consumer's ability to restore the situation prior to the application of an abusive clause in a large number of assumptions, of cases. The necessity on the part of the banks to restore the situation could have had a simple and direct solution. The judgment of the European Court of Justice, in this sense, was clear and compelling, the way could have been based on out-of-court resolutions, on mechanisms of immediate character that facilitate the compensation of those affected, the restoration of the damage caused. The option that the Spanish State took was not this, and they did so through a royal decree of law, Decree 1/2017, of 20 genera, to which you refer, of urgent measures of consumer protection in the matter of clauses only, which is to complicate – complicate – in an excessive and unnecessary way the mechanisms so that consumers can obtain their repair, their compensation. The direct consequence is that power passes to the hands of the financial entities and takes consumers back to a long process path to be able to make their rights better, to be able to restore their rights. This decision not to prioritise a direct agreement and to pass the solution through the judicial process was a political decision, a bad political decision, which is very bad for us, given the subjective perspective of the financial entities and not of the citizenry, of the city, and which, therefore, favors banks again clearly, significantly harms consumers and increases the collapse of an already completely saturated judicial system. Because, you said so, the General Council of the Judiciary activates the measure of the single provincial justice and here things have just broken loose. This measure is of obvious inefficiency, which is manifest from the beginning with the col·lapse of the courts for the massive and concentrated entry of persons for a single judicial organ of first instance. These two facts, both the normative solution defined by the Government of the Spanish State – at that time governed the People's Party and with the help of Citizens approved it – validated for the Congress of Deputies, which judicializes the solution, as the misconception of the organic competence of this assumed on the part of the General Council of the Judiciary take as a direct consequence the arrangement, the col·lapse and, therefore, the arrangement of the solution to consumers. And we cannot avoid the cost that these decisions have represented for taxpayers, we cannot. Only in the first year of operation has a cost to the Government of Catalonia of more than 2_million euros; one year, 2_million euros. Public money intended to finance the judicial structure and the functions necessary to deal with the four lawsuits that had to be filed in Catalonia in order to deal with the complaints. The Department of Justice has responsibly assumed the tasks and the availability of the material, economic, technological and human resources necessary to facilitate the implementation of a supposed solution that was imposed on us in which we did not only have intervention, but we were not even consulted. Since the Department of Justice we are devoting all our resources to the abst to try to cover this situation, to seek a solution, but sadly and manifestly they are all insufficient. It is obvious that the situation calls for a change of direction, both because of the ineffectiveness of the proposed solution lives and because of the need to give the consumer the facility to restore the situation that he would have to have if the clauses only had not been applied. In this line of proposing solutions we were to attend a meeting with the General Council of the Judiciary by videoconference, where we intended to denounce the bad solution adopted for the Council and also to make proposals to improve the current situation. Unfortunately, as the Director General of Modernization of the Administration of Justice carried a groceries, since the General Council, with the president at the head of the table, decided to disconnect us from this meeting. It's the same, we persist and continue to propose and provide solutions. From the Department of Justice we will continue to demand the changes that we consider essential in order to find a solution that gives response to the needs of consumers, of citizens, and we will not close ourselves in the decisions to age for the interests, in this case, corporate of some corporations. Because we don't agree with the Royal Decree 1/2017, of 20 of the generation of 2017, and so we expressed it and we have manifested it continuously. This councillor, while she was a Member, denounced her and made different proposals to those contained in the royal decree. And neither do we agree with the agreement of May 25, 2017, proposed for the General Council of the Judiciary. It causes consumers to be answered, as in the past, far more than three months after the law, the courts are collapsing and we have come up with a proposal to extend the most affected province, Barcelona, with the new number, a proposal that does not resolve the situation of the original cartel, number fifty, which is why we did not accept it from the department. Since the beginning, from the Department of Justice we have reinforced the four judicious objects of that court, in these assumptions, with thirteen full reinforcements and thirteen partial reinforcements, plus hours of dedication. And the situation has not improved considerably in the periods that these reinforcements have entered into force. Therefore, we are clear that the solution does not pass to put more muscles and more jutjats, not at least in the case of Catalonia. We've always put the consumer's right in front of us, and we keep doing it. And for this reason, these are the proposals we made for the meeting that took place on the 17th of October last year, in which they disconnected us, they denied that we could attend for the fact of the groceries. What we proposed was to continue with the current specialized first instance courts, resolving the requests they already have in progress, without increasing their resources. We have considered that up to seven thousand requests, the centralized model of the current agreement of the Permanent Commission of the General Council of the Judiciary produces a satisfactory level of resolution – up to seven thousand requests, now I will tell you the name we have – by over 50_%. But in Catalonia we have 35,000 requests to settle, out of a total of 260,000 that they have in the joint of the Spanish State, the second community in name. For this reason, we must not give to a decentralized model, increasing with more first instance jutjats, attributing to them the knowledge of these subjects of judicial parties in separation of jurisdiction from the province of Barcelona, in this case Sabadell, Mataró, Badalona, Hospitalet, Granollers and Terrassa, thus growing in service and, therefore, decongesting the current jutjats and also with proximity to the city. And, in any case, in the final analysis, it is clear that it is necessary to repeal the Royal Decree of 1/2017. Yesterday announced the president of the Government of the Spanish State that it would modify with regard to the subject of legal acts documented the tax, so, take advantage of the advent, look for the solution. Because there are out-of-court solutions that need not be passed through the courts; because the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union was clear to respect, it gave solutions, only the right to apply the judgment and to seek out out-of-court solutions in order to give an effective and effective response to the citizenry, which has seen it as having been violating its rights and its ability, therefore, to be restored for the injured right. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.81.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, you have another time... [[I'm sorry. I'm fine. I'm fine.]] Don't you? Renunciation of the reply? All right. So, we'd finish this point of the order of the day and move on to the point of the new Major? [[Pause.]] I'd touch the eighth point, which we left hanging. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Correct. [[Project of the law of creation of the Agency of Public Health of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[200-00004/12]] We will recover the point that we had left pending from yesterday's session, which is the totality debate on the draft law creating the Catalonia Public Health Agency. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, the initiative is presented by the Vice-President of the Government, who I see is not there. [[Pause.]] So, I don't know if he's at his desk, if we can... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm told it's coming all the way here. So, if it looks good on you, we'd wait... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. Therefore, we would proceed, as provided for in Rule 116.2 of the Rules, and present the initiative to the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, with a time limit of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.82.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Councillor, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I compare to present on behalf of the Government the Project of Law of Creation of the Agency of Public Health of Catalonia. The purpose of this bill is to recover the Public Health Agency of Catalonia as an autonomous body administered with its own legal personality, so that it assumes the executive functions assigned to the Department of Public Health in the field of public health by the Department of Public Health through the Secretary of Public Health and by reserving to the secretary the design of policies, planning and execution and, therefore, leaving in the hands of the agency the executive part of public health policies. In fact, Law 18/2009, of 22 October, of public health, which was approved unanimously in this chamber, completed the integration and reform of public health services in Catalonia and set up a new organizational framework to ensure the maximum degree of vigilance of health, the promotion of individual and collective health, the prevention of disease and the protection of health, while promoting the coordination and collaboration of the organizations and public administrations involved. This law of 2009 promoted the fact that the integration of the different public health services is carried out by executive, agile and flexible organizations, with the capacity to mobilize cross-sectoral and inter-administrative cooperation and, at the same time, to foster maximum community alliances. For this reason, we chose the agency model, the so-called "Catalonia Public Health Agency", with management autonomy and a clearly defined service portfolio. Another basic element in the Public Health Act was the deconcentration of the Catalonia Public Health Agency through its regional and territorial structure, with the aim of ensuring fairness and improving the interaction with territorial agents involved in promoting community health. Since his approval, this law has been subject to different partial modifications. The most important was the loss of their legal personality in accordance with Article 163 of Law 2/2014, of 27 genera, of fiscal, administrative and financial measures of the public sector. In this way, agency functions were placed under the dependence of departmental units with similar functions, and the territorial structure was severely affected. In this way, in the context of the economic crisis, the Public Health Agency disappears as it had configured the mandate of the Parliament in 2009, in the context of the economic crisis and in the context of the obligations driven by adherence to the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, which also called for the reduction of the number of public citizens. Why are we presenting this bill now? In the previous legislature, under the mandate of Councillor Comín – and now that we are, we again demand the freedom of all political prisoners and the free return of exiles – Councillor Comín started the way to recover Catalonia's Public Health Agency. And it is done in the context of a plan to reorganize legal entities, public enterprises, foundations and autonomous bodies affiliated to the Health Department and with the will to promote public health policies as a central element of the government's health policy. An exhibition is the Pla de salut de Catalunya for the years 2016-2020, which, for the first time in history, constituted public salvation as a strategic line with its own entity. This bet was stunned by the application of Article 155 on our institutions, but remains fully in force today. A determined bet by this government to respond to the main challenges of salvation from an organized effort of society and public power to promote the salvation of people and prevent malalties. To this end, the recovery of the legal nature of the Public Health Agency is converted into an essential instrument, and from here the draft law that we are bringing today to debate and which has already been approved by the Government and which has been admitted to this Parliament during the previous parliamentary term, without this Parliament being able to come to debate by application of Article 155, which suspended the autonomy and dissolved the Parliament. And today, like today, we know that we have a very cross-cutting parliamentary consensus for the thrust of this bill and, therefore, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups that have been working with the Health Department on this project again. As we have already done at its beginning, this project is the result of the close collaboration of the department with the different political groups, always with total transparency and listening possible better, because this is and must be an advance of the country and for the country. And we do it because it's a new step, because it's close to us, because after the efforts that have to be made in Catalonia in the midst of the economic crisis, we have to reverse the details, and it's with this will that we're here today, it's with this will also with which we govern. And we do this because we are endorsed and endorsed to do so, because the experience with the Health Protection Agency as an autonomous body attached to the Health Department with autonomy of functioning and competence in the food and environmental field, allow us to conclude the suitability of the creation of an agency as a participatory organizational model, decentralized and territorialized to assume the competences and functions of protection and promotion of the salvation of people in the individual and collective sphere, prevent maladies and take care of the vigilance of health. The contents of the bill. The Catalonia Public Health Agency, as it cannot be in any other way, will exercise its powers in coordination with other departments that make actions that affect the salvation of the population and actions of public salvation. It will manage crisis and emergency situations that pose a risk to the health of the population. It will also coordinate the public health information system as well as the training and research system in public health, and will technically advise the local authorities that cater for these services. It will elaborate impact studies on the health of interventions on the determinants of the health of the population, and in all its functions, it will ensure that the explicit and operational integration of the gender perspective is a reality, especially for the design, implementation and evaluation of the inter-departmental and inter-sectoral public health plan, the Pinsap. The agency has as its maximum governing organ the board of directors. The Board of Governors is required to be able to complete this vital cross-cutting work in order to develop an effective work with the compliment of the Law of Public Health. This, therefore, will be a collegiate, governing organ with representation of the competent administrations in this field. The new agency in the mark of the national system of salvation. This collaboration has proved to be a very effective element in addressing the public health crisis situations that have arisen in recent years. Having a space, such as the board of directors, where the various administrations and departments with competences related to public health set strategies to address the current problems and move forward with the future, is an essential element in the current context. Social, economic, surrounding, cultural or educational factors account for 80_percent of the determinants of people's salvation. In other words, to a good extent, salvation is guanya or is lost outside the health system, and it is these social determinants of salvation that give place to one of the main repts that we face as the català of welfare: inequalities in salvation for social, cultural, economic or genera reasons. Therefore, the policies of salvation transcend beyond the Department of Salvation. All those policies that impact on the social environment of people and their communities have a potential impact on the health of Catalans and Catalans. This is the approach that the World Health Organization has struck as "hello to all policies." And to bring it to an effective conclusion, the Public Health Agency, the promotion of salvation and education in salvation, the strict vigilance before the main threats to public salvation, following the nature that follows, or the creation of synergies with the social actions that generate salvation of our surroundings, as can be civic entities or municipal equipment, with libraries or civic centres; they constitute the central nucleus of public health policies that must drive the agency. To guarantee the right to salvation for everyone, it is necessary to consolidate the impulse of public health policies that aim to have a citizenry formed and informed about everything that affects his salvation, and to give them the best instruments to take care of him, both of his own and of the people around him. Today, therefore, we are taking a step further to begin the recovery of a cabal instrument for our lost country by cutting the details, and we are taking a step forward in the construction of the national health system that we need and deserve like the country. Thank you for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.83.0	Thank you, Vice President. Then, as long as no totality statements have been submitted to the text, we will proceed to open a turn of interventions to fix the positioning of the two-minute groups for each group. In this case, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Jorge Soler begins. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.84.0	Well, good morning. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members, Deputies, Authority to accompany us and public that follows this law. In Catalonia there is a problem of public salvation, now, of first order, of first magnitude, which is said to be lack of professionals, which is said to be consultations col·lapsades, which is said to be a list of hope, which is said to be unjust details supported and maintained for its government. Yesterday, we knew precisely that Catalonia was being called for a five-day round, first of all, for public health practitioners, but now we know that it is possible that it could include nursing and other congregations to add to it, because they have reasons to stay out of the way after years and years, they denounce these problems, the opposition in this Parliament and this deputy who speaks to you denouncing these problems, and denying them to you, so now they become reality. Interestingly, yesterday we knew a vacancy as it had never been announced before in Catalonia, an entry vacancy of five days, what did the President do when the opposition, when Mrs. Arrimadas asked him about this issue? So, again narrow your head and stay still in the chair. What a shame before this problem! Vice-President, we have a big problem, and you are not offering us anything to solve the problem there is for professionals. This is a public health issue that needs to be on this agenda. I understand that you may like it better to come here and talk about Mr. Otegui or other things, but unfortunately, it was one day ago to get back in solidarity with the health professionals. And we have to do so because today we are talking about public health, today we are talking about a law, certainly, a law, therefore, very important that has its origin in 2009 in this Faristol with Dr. Geli, the councilwoman, at that time, that presented to us this law, with a law with a great speech, an innovative law, a law that announced itself, and it was, a law that was admiring itself with the best international public health projects, a law that with much certainty integrated public health among the health system with all its possible futures. You mentioned some of them: from protection to vigilance, from prevention, starting with the individual, obviously coming to the community and the community, undoubtedly to prevention, to case study, all its magnitudes. And then there were some of the great reptes that he must fight, to which he must give answer public salvation, starting from animal salvation. These days we were, therefore, seeing how the swine fever is again a problem of magnitude and is giving itself, therefore, a health response to these situations, but there are many others, passing through the food, obviously passing through the environment. We have other problems, before yesterday we also knew how there is a resurgence of sexually transmitted infections. In fact, we have been announcing this issue for years now, with proposals from the opposition. This morning we saw as a counselor who would have to... I don't know, give a strong, clear answer when you see that there are fewer sleeping on the ground, and Ciutadans, again, asks him for these children, and the only one who comes to him is that this is a problem right now and that, well, it's practically over, isn't it? , argued another time about the beasts that we have in this Parliament, when what we have are poor children sleeping on the earth, and this also has to work, of this transversal form that you have read, from public salvation, obviously. We're in trouble. The scammers also proliferate in Catalonia, throughout the State, but also proliferate in Catalonia. And to the swindlers with salvation can give them answers also from public salvation. Subjects of mental salvation, such as suicide, which we have been addressing since this Parliament. Inequalities in salvation... – I have heard many times already –, inequalities in salvation that are territorially unsustainable, they are unjust, they are very great, and we find them remedied. And obviously this law brings the benefits of a cross-cutting government focused on how I think you have explained very well and we are fully in agreement, as it cannot be in any other way, from decentralizing and deconcentrating public health issues to making horizontal coordination with other entities, which obviously confluence with this level of care. Therefore, care coordination and, obviously, knowing that I like the term, integral greeting, greeting for all and all policies. And as I say since 2009, since this law that you are bringing here today, 2009 was approved for unanimous approval throughout the chamber, inclusive citizens, at that time Dr. Geli said that a law like this alone was comparable to the LOSC, including, she said, to the general law, she said in this very faristol where I am now speaking. We agree, he was a legislative referent. But Dr. Geli was wrong, I couldn't have known otherwise, when she said that she had come to this room to last. Because she explained: "Investing in public salvation is profitable, even though the winnings are not sometimes immediate. And I say it was wrong because you... I don't know why you're here for 155. Why, miri, November 6, 2013– a few years ago –: « The Government degrades the Catalonia Public Health Agency. And she degraded her because she locked her up. And he locked it up because at that time, so, calyca, as hot now, it went bad at the administration. But, of course, what happens when you give a scalpel to someone who doesn't know anatomy? So you can start unbridling, and if you don't section a nerve, you might amputate an artery; get what you don't get out of the Administration. In this case Convergence, who was the one who ruled, amputated, took out this agency that you have now, so, I insist, I think that with certainty, they will bring us back, to return to what was already there. Did they take out, at the time when there was a greek in the administration, take out chiringuitos? No, no, Did they take pity from the administration? No, no, Did they do anything for corruption, which we now know perfectly well where he was going, including traveling to Andorra to leave Catalan money? No, no, They locked this up. You were here, a while ago, when I myself defended here an urgent integral law to fight the waiting lists, and I said: "We are bringing here the professionals, these professionals who are now going to be on the loose, between three weeks, I said to them: "We are bringing here the professionals – and I said it to you –" because they help us to make a law, also, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that you were present, that is, that is, that is, that is, and that is, that is, that is, that is, and that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, and that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, and that is, that is, that is, that is, and that is, that is, that is, and that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, and that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, and that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, But what's our surprise? : that you are blocking the Parliament to the professional – this time, and I say it with all surprise, because I did not expect it, with the connivance of Podemos – saying that your decrees are to be decreed; with a decree to fix all these themes of salvation that are in Catalonia. I believe, personally, that doing cross-cutting things, as this law could be, is much more correct to prevent there from being vague, to prevent there from being as many problems as you have, provenly – because years ago they were ruling – with a continuous government like the one we have now, they are unable to resolve. What does Ciutadans want, then, in this topic? I think they know me well, they know it well: a non-politicized health system. We want the professionals to follow, I insist, those who come here to Parliament to implement these laws. And when that's the case, they'll have all our blessings, because we think it can't be done any other way. It is not closing the door of Parliament to the laws, as the opposition does, as I have presented here in this Parliament often to fix the issues. It's not closing this, it's opening the doors, it's opening the dialog, listening to the professionals who are on the move, because they have the solution, many years ago they have them, many years ago we come here and we give them to them. They're making technical contributions, but they're also making a big difference. And it's that you, what you have come to us, you relate it, well, to 155; I think you've forgotten about the years here Esquerra, so you've had this detailed advice. Cal's gonna stick to the assumptions. You, precisely you, since you are not the Health Counselor, but you have the hand of the assumptions: will that remain to the assumptions? Because this is essential; you bring this law that you should presuppositionally equip it. You talked about the department; I want you to finance it properly. We believe – and at least the wording of this law does so – that it is important to separate the technical function from the political function. Now, you know the City Group well and you know me too: we'll be loving, huh? , to avoid that this is not another thing. Yesterday a journalist asked me about the passers-by: "Are you sure this isn't going to turn into something else? I said, "No, I think this is going to be a good agency, so it's well-planned, and that's why they have all of Ciutadan's recollection. Now, not at any price, and that's why I look at it... not at any price. We want this to be carried by technicians. I don't think there's any other way to do it. I'm done. We will also be lovingly looking for this to be to give an answer to inequalities and, as you know and repeat all the time in my inquiries, because this is also a transparent agency, so we don't have to be here all day begging for information, because you have the doors...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.85.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.86.0	...overts...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.87.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.88.0	... – and I finish, President – because you have the open doors, as we think you will have the open doors in this Parliament, because the professionals come and are transparent. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of the MP Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.90.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Vice President, I must say that I am delighted to see 'to speak of enthusiasm, of salvation..., to see 'lposat' in the term, because I hope that, at the time of reflection, of drawing up the assumptions, we can restore that 40_per_cent that was the pesso that had Greeting in the assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia and that afterward he went missing. And these days we talk about it – said the previous Member before me – because we have conflict, but we also have at our hands a system that can preserve and fight because it continues to have the levels of efficiency and quality that it has, basically, to its professionals. And I say this because – and I link a little with what Congressman Soler said – in the last few days, in the department's premise, the Directorate-General for Public Health was on the road, we would say, almost abusively, presuppositionally, and, therefore, if we believe that public health is important, then let us have this reflex. Why... why do we all understand each other, huh? Because at the end of the speeches, it's all lost. Here's a public salutation law, year 2009. The 2009 Public Health Act, which is an effective and existing law, and at the same time it was a very innovative law in the field of public health – it is where we are working – had and had created within it an agency, an agile mechanism of functioning that allows coordination and cooperation with local authorities and, at the same time, has a management autonomy also for sanctions, tickets, etc. The year 2014 suppresses the agency; not the Law of Public Greeting, the agency suppresses. From that moment, from the opposition, many groups – Catalonia in Comú Podemos, the Socialist Group and Units to Advance – we have presented initiatives that have been approved in the previous legislature because the Public Health Agency is recovered, that is, the instrument, on the basis, I insist, of the law of 2009. We've told the counselor that I'm starting to think that you're abandoning the law of the drug agency – that I see that for the time being he's stayed there, also, sleeping the dream of the righteous – and you've recovered the Law of the Public Health Agency, because creating the agency was an agreement that we had among all and that we had voted for and it was worth doing. Therefore, starting from these principles, we would say, that they are the mark of this draft law that is presented today, so there was no mention of totality, because we understand that we are all aware of the importance of an instrument of management at the expense of public health policies, that I have made clear the function of the secretary general, the secretary in the department, and, at the same time, the role of the agency. The importance of public salvation, if it is the retrogression of the State, in the retrogression of the very State of Catalonia, and it is more evident that two years have passed since the creation of the Law of 2009 and of the agency at that time, and many things have happened in these two years. And, therefore, I think we need to take advantage of the creation of the agency and the elaboration of its statues to incorporate these new aspects of public salvation that we are all somehow defining, that are marked by globalization, the mobility of people... I can't remember that we are..., and at times we have heard international, global public salvation alerts. That is to say, mobility and globalisation lead us to these things and, therefore, to a more distressed approach in terms of public salvation. We have such important challenges as this changing demographic, that is, we have changed our age pyramid and, therefore, we have to live with chronicity and aging. The incorporation of inequality criteria or the struggle for equality in terms of salvation. Globalisation and increasing people's mobility. A concern for some cities and a much more sustainable environment, is to say, about what we are all more aware of every time, about the contamination of the environment and its effects on health; this is a public health issue that is very present and we need to have... But also the generation of us homeless and addicts; we are talking many times about tobacco, alcohol and drugs, but we need to start talking about addictions that are not linked to a substance, but they are technological or... they are new addictions. I mean, these are things that we need to be incorporating. Or – it's not so far – the storms and the prevention of nuclear, biological or chemical accidents. All this is new reality that somehow we have to take advantage of, on a _marc that already works..., the one that can pull forward. We therefore welcome the fact that they are pulling ahead of the agency, that they are doing so with ambitious objectives, but above all I believe that there must be two inspiring principles. A quick response capability; it is to say, we have to be agile, and, therefore, it has to be endowed so that it can be. That he can act decentrally, that is, that he has a presence in the territory. What is, obviously, transparent; it was said before Mr Soler, right? In this sense, we all know who the pocket is doing. Let it be transversal and integral. And who has the capacity to cooperate and cooperate loyally with the rest of the administrations that are competent in public health. Because here there is a theme that is very important and that we cannot forget, that is the ability and the skills of our own that have the joints, councils and deputies in terms of public safety. And, therefore, it is not a matter of establishing a command over this local world, but of establishing cooperation mechanisms so that they can work. I have to tell you that I want to thank the director of Public Health, Mr. Guix, because he came to explain the bill and why, as I know he sees from the local world, he will be..., if he continues; in this I no longer pose, I no longer form part of my competitions. But in any case, it is quite sensitive to what the local world is, because I think it's very important. Because many times, in the absence of resources from the Government of Catalonia to bring forward some policies, so one can be tempted to say: "Well, so that they do the gatherings, and we will already tell them where to go. No, no, That he exercises his skills, that cooperation and collaboration is loyal and that we can work in what we understand to be public salvation: like a collective struggle and a collective work for individual and collective salvation and for the prevention of malalty. I am pleased that the agency, therefore, may have revenue from taxes, preus publiques and sanctions, which were once the only box and now we can reverse them from the same agency and therefore dedicate them to public greeting, research or what we think most important. Well, start processing, which I understand doesn't have to be long. I think it's a draft law that can have consensus; therefore, we will do an ordinary processing, but in any case we can do it if all of us agree – which at these times seems difficult, but in the realm of public salvation we can do it – we can do a fast processing but complete with the requirements. And in these demands we will have to listen to the municipalist entities and we will have to listen to the scientific societies and we will have to listen, not much people, but a follow-up of people that does form part of what is the field of public salvation. And we will also have to feel the people of the environment, universities or education, who will have to bring their share to what will have to be the clear definition of the portfolio of services, but at the same time also the definition of what the statutes suitable for the Public Health Agency must contemplate. I'd leave it here. Just tell them that in this defense of the local world and of the own agencies..., well, I always..., you know that I have "barcelonacentrism, but in any case, the existence of a first agency..., it may be true that it is 60/40 to the organs of government. It will always seem to me little, the presence of the local administration, and therefore almost the demand for parity, because I believe that the level of competence of the local administration and the level of responsibility of the assemblies, of the mayors and mayors on public salvation – we do not forget, that we have not seen some before the criminal court for issues of public salvation – is very important and, therefore, to defend this cooperation and the worth of the local administration. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of the deputy Mrs Elisenda Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.92.0	Good morning, everybody. MPs, MPs, Vice President, Councillor, Director of Public Health, well, today we are ahead of, more than a bill of law creating the Catalonia Public Health Agency of restoration. Let us remember that the Catalonia Public Health Agency was created in 2009, by means of the Catalonia Public Health Act, approved, as has already been said, unanimously for this Parliament. This agency created as an independent body with the mission that it was an instrument for the better salvation of the population, mainly through prevention and advice in the making of political decisions, based on technical criteria. Its dismantling – dismantling – made it more difficult to develop better policies for the salvation of the people. This dismantling we remember that coincided with moments of maximum detail in presuppositions of salvation, with the government of the best, with Boi Ruiz of Councillor of Salvation; some detail of which we have not yet recovered at all. Perhaps now that the assumptions are being negotiated, as the company Assumpta Escarp has said, it would be a good time to think about it. No one has yet been able to explain the real reasons for the decision not to pay enough attention to this agency, or to dismantle it, because it was necessary for the salvation of all. No logical argument has yet been given to justify this decision. There can only be, of course, political and ideological arguments, which surely have, as I said, a name and a surname: Boi Ruiz, and his obsession with public health. We're not just the ones who have to remember and the ones who still remember his name, because we've mobilized many times against this health counselor. Why, of course, what should we expect from the senior manager of private hospitals running the public health system? So that acting defend the interests of whom he knew, of private benefits. It is that councillor, let's remember, who inaugurated his mandate recommencing the Catalan people who are the guises of a mutual. He did it in an interview, the 2011 genera, when he made sure that a private mutual is a solution to the public health system. And yet today we are continuing to paint these fateful policies against the public health system, we are still living a little bit of this logic of Boi Ruiz, because we are continuing under the European medium in reversal in sanitation, we are continuing with important needs for what makes better in hospitals and CAPs, and with professionals who continue to ashes the belt. But don't tell us. Mirin, the Confavc, the Confederation of Veterinary Associations of Catalonia, drew up a map of the situation of the Catalan health system, giving relevant examples. According to this map, for example, the CAP of Montcada and Reixac lost 25 workers between 2011 and 2014; the CAP of Garraf Rural as well as that of Badalona and Llefià, were left without 14 places of work each; the CAP of Chafarinas, in Barcelona city, was left without 17 places; in the medical center of Escala, in Girona, there were evaporated 12 places, and the primary care team Solsonès was left without one_design of occupations in these years. As for the visits carried out per day, the plananol of the Confavc confirms an increment of the assistance pressure in some nuclei of Girona and the area of Penedès. And in the CAP of Calafell and the Lower Penedès Interior, doctors tend to have two patients more than before those details. According to the Catalonia Teachers' Union, the Catalan Institute of Health, the ICS, the public enterprise that controls eight large hospitals and the 80_per_cent of primary care, has lost 1,064 meters in five years. Yesterday, we learned that primary school students call five days off. No one goes five days off if he thinks there's an alternative that compensates him for mobilizing and claiming for his rights. So, this is the thermometer of how we currently have public sanitation. Millions of workers – these will be the demands that will be made – for the reduction of the care pressure. And as far as nurses are concerned, even though they don't have official data – they may be able to give it to us at some point – the Catalan Primary Care Forum estimates that the ICS has lost a thousand nurses. This is the country and the landscape that some have left us. That's why we want a new one, too. So, lords and lords of the government, I said, reverse the retail policies practiced over the years against the Catalan health system and help to rebuild badly during the dark decade that we have experienced throughout Catalonia's citadel. Therefore, restoration and no creation necessary and expected. We're glad you're back in the common sense, that this government is paying attention to what's been claimed for the sector and approved for unanimous approval in this chamber. Unanimity that demonstrates the importance of this agency and the need to mediate the creation of an autonomous and independent body. It is essential to restore the Catalan Public Health Agency with the functions of the General Law of Public Health of Catalonia, in order to be able to exercise health authority, to strengthen the prevention and protection of health programs, to promote a focus of health in all policies and, above all, with the aim of guiding priorities, not only to the main problems of salvation, but also to the social determinants of health. As the 2009 law already laid down, it must be an executive, flexible and agile organization; it must manage intersectoral and inter-administrative cooperation; it must have a territorial structure, and, above all, a key word, co-governance with the local administration. One of the great prejudices of the policies of the past few years that have taken place from here have been our gatherings. I believe that many Members and many Members are well aware of the reality of the municipalities, the constitutions and the great shortcomings that they have faced because of the policies that have taken place since the Generality. Let's remember that the citizenry at the first door that knocks is the assembly door, not this one. Therefore, when it comes to co-government, there is no talk of participation or collaboration, but of really taking into account the assemblies, which have had to continue to exercise their public salvation skills, without many times having the tools, or only the skills. So now we have the opportunity to reverse it. We take this situation as an opportunity. As the new law's motivating statement goes, the challenges in public health are changing. Therefore, in a globalized world of ours, we must have flexible structures to give new answers to nine questions, to ourselves that we find ourselves on the road, and, if we can, also anticipate these new ones. It is time to work to legislate, now and here, in favor of our citizenship, but this does not only go with speeches or proclamations, but also with presupposition. Our claim continues on the table, and we hope that we will regain the common sense to return to the level of reversal in public salvation, as at least – as at least – to the level that existed before the retailing, so that we can actually progressively increase the percentage of the presumption of salvation that is destined for public salvation. As we say, some of us have left this country, and some of us have also left this panorama, which causes the next few days to begin to mobilize a whole collection on which the details and austerity in this country have been carried out. Some of us have left this country, but it is also true that many are convinced that it is up to us to build a new one. But we won't do it the same way we always do – we won't do it the same way we always do. So, if they really want a new Catalonia, they'll have to make new policies, not old policies. So let's get down there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.93.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is then the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, and on his behalf of the Deputy Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.94.0	Good morning, everyone. We will try to talk in these five minutes of the Public Health Agency of Catalonia, which is the bill of law that is planted in the morning or on the day of today. In the first place, we wanted to thank the predisposition, both informative and dialogious, that has developed since the Secretary of Public Health, and especially in his secretary, Mr. Guix, that today we have or count on him, in the presence, in this Parliament. When some groups in this Parliament made reference that the Parliament was closed, therefore, from the Secretary of Public Health he became aware of and was aware of what we thought about this bill. We do want to make some considerations about the content of this project. First of all, in relation to the preamble, and, as we do not want to be mistaken – in fact, not preamble, but mere expression of motive – we are going to read literally a part of this preamble: "During these last years, as a result of the partial modification of the Law on Public Health, there have been various public health crises in the national and international arena, arising in part from the social and technological evolution and the continuous increase in the mobility of people, goods and goods, of migratory movements and associated multiculturalism. Look, we could understand that you, in this exhibition of motius, really want to talk about international displacements. We could understand, for one thing, that they feel that it is a guspira in relation to that there are diseases that are eradicated in one part of the world and in others not – certainly, not linked to migration, but on the move, it could simply be tourism. But either we don't understand or we don't share how it is written, as it associates with migratory movements and multi-culturalities. We think it's not a good writing and they need to develop it. Or, for another band, they have to say in a very clear way if they think that the fact of multiculturality itself is a risk factor. Of course, we agree with most of this Parliament that multiculturalism as it does not. Therefore, this wording needs to be improved, in order not to go to conclusions that we think that even the same legislators, in this case, the Government, do not share. On the content of what this bill is, we could make proposals, and so we would make them, in relation to what is Article 3, where there are the objectives and, above all, the objectives linked to functions. Surely we could, too, bet more to inform and educate and empower people about the problems of salvation. There is an exercise, which is not all the depth that could be done for public administrations, which is to inform more, educate more and empower more in questions of salvation. Also, an exercise that goes through to strengthen regulations and regulations that protect health and guarantee safety, security in health, and that obviously will not be the direct competence of this agency, but that can assume that this is work. Also ensure health care for everyone. And what that means is that if we have a country where not everyone is guaranteed health care, it can create a public health problem. The people don't believe it, the administrations or the states don't guarantee it. Also guarantee the workforce for public health and assess the effectiveness, agility and quality of people's health service. We also tell them: there's a point where we're talking about the coordination of the training and research system, and we think we need to put it into practice. Are we at the door, again, of public-private collaboration or are we thinking of another issue? I, in later instància, as always, if we plant, when we speak of salvation, class determinants in salvation. We have to say this in a very clear way. In the end, it is the class that determines a good part of the problems of salvation. And we want them, too, to express our opposition to how they stand in the additional arrangement Sisena, apart according to, assumption or integration of the staff that already serves in competent departments. Look, you set it up and then you say to us, "Coincident or linked functions that the agreement of this law assumes. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This "linkage" is an indeterminate legal concept, and therefore we need to know how it works. And, for another band, they also say to us: "Keeping its original condition and under the same conditions that are applicable to it at the time of entry into force. We have to say, in a very clear way, that this is a corporate subrogation, that it is all right, that it is all right, that it is all right, and we do not create the margin of doubt for the conjunction of the workers and the workers who will see this process. And lastly, we would also like to remember: prescription of infirmary. We have a decree, or a royal decree, two weeks ago from the Spanish government. We haven't had any differences – a disaster, that of 2015, of the People's Party –, and we don't just fix this from the nursing prescription that about public health can have so much impact. And, just to finish, there are now the Health Commission's own spokespersons and spokespersons for the rest of the points working on a motion for a resolution related to dental, but unfortunately, from the CUP we feel that this will not be a solution. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And that's one of the big public health issues we have today in our country...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.95.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.96.0	...which meant this, which is simply a business-like robbing exercise in the form of an iDental.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.97.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.98.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, councillor in the office of Health, I will focus, more than on the bill, I will also focus a little on the environment and a little on the councillor's intervention. First of all, to say that when this bill was presented, he approved the government, to the last legislature and brought it to Parliament, the government had already decided to liquidate the legislature. Formally, it was settled on October 27th, with the declaration of independence, which involved the application of 155 and the call for elections. The alternative they had was to have called the elections on October 26, with which the Parliament would also have dissolved. Ergo, when you approve of this bill in the government, you have already decided to wind up the legislature. Well, in fact, the legislature didn't, they've already decided to liquidate the legislature, the Statute, the Constitution, they decided to liquidate everything, didn't they? So don't come to blame now that if this bill isn't in force and is not approved, then it's the implementation of 155, because it's the government's sole responsibility; first question. Second question. The Public Health Agency, as laid down in this bill, does not bring anything new to the public service and to the citizenry. It brings new developments with regard to the operationality and internal flexibility of public health policies, and therefore certainly a better relationship in public health issues respects different departments and respects internal mechanisms, but it does not add value to the combination of citizenship, nor does it provide solutions to the problems of sanitation. We're talking about health, sanitation is another thing, but I think it's also worth remembering that the most pressing problems the Health Department has at this time are related to the problems of health: primary care, waiting lists, professional work conditions – the vacancy that is being called for the next month has already been mentioned. But, look, the rationalization and simplification of entities, enterprises and bodies of the Generalitat de Catalunya, like the joint venture of the Spanish public administrations, was not just a request from the FLA – which was, was, but was not only a request from the FLA – it was a necessity for the public administrations to try to reduce their size and try to keep up. I'll quote some of you who claimed to take measures of these characteristics, and I won't go... or follow, I'll go even a little further than you think. For example, on June 2010, the Councillor of Economy, who was Antoni Castells, in a tripartite of which you were a part, and also the Socialist Group formed part, said, and repeated and reiterated the need to reduce the entities, organizations and enterprises of the Generality of Catalonia; June 2010. More strictly in the field of health and sanitation, the same year 2011, Metges de Catalunya, the union that today, or this week, has called for the vaga, gave it to the Government of the Generality: "Escolti'm, intend to reduce businesses and public entities more than you do not serve assistance. That was the message. And in the end, we find ourselves here today that there have actually been reductions in entities and enterprises, without convincingly – I will now refer very briefly to it too – but the one that has been reduced in a more intense way has been the care workers, and from these there are no plans of the law of the government to try to recover them. There aren't, and these are the ones that are certainly needed. And also in 2012 the Chamber of Commerce of Catalonia said: « Esconti'm, the Administration of the Generality has to reduce at least by 20_% of entities and organizations and try to achieve a estavi of 2,700_million euros. That is to say, three different entities that say: "Listen to me, we must act in this sense. But also the Parliament, during 2011 and 2012, with a Government of Convergence and Union, which had a timely gathering of the People's Party, approved on various occasions measures to reduce entities and agencies of the Administration. And that was done, and it was done in this case with the Catalonia Public Health Agency. What is happening is that, therefore, it certainly was not done with conviction, because we have seen the report of the Union of Auditors regarding the restructuring of the public sector of the Government of Catalonia, which refers to the period [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I'm following – 2010-2016, and notes, the Union of Accounts, that the student who assumed the suppression of the agency as a body – not of the servants, who continue to lend from the Secretary of Public Health of the Department of Health – was zero. So, we don't have a problem...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.99.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.100.0	...that is recovered as to a legal form own the Agency of Public Health of Catalonia; we have no inconvenience...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.101.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.102.0	... – yes, just to say – if this has to be used to improve the operation and flexibility of this agency. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs Noemi Llaurado's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.104.0	Thank you. Councillor, vice president, councillor, deputies, deputies, good morning. Secretary of Public Health, Mr. Guix, good morning. In the first place, let me publicly denounce an attack by the director general of Igualtat on Twitter, a death threat, clearly, for the simple fact of being a feminist. From here we want to give our support to the director general, the Mireia Mata. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Thank you. And getting into my intervention, we've come to talk about the Public Health Agency, and so we've come to talk about one of the areas of our health care system, which is public health, which is different from that of care services, even though we always tend to talk more about care services, right? That it's a time we're here... when we're sick, when we've already lost our salvation, we're talking straight away about the care services, and maybe we don't have so much emphasis, or we don't have so much value, or with the same people, the public health care services. Therefore, focusing already on the bill presented by the Vice-President here today in his parliamentary office, to say that we are celebrating that at last, therefore, it has been possible to present itself, after the imposition of the so-called imposed, and yes, there has been a so-called imposed ban of 155, which had prevented it. We can now present this bill, which has already begun in the mandate of Councillor Comín, political exile, also forcedly, and which has repressed Councillor Vergés, from the hand, as we say, of the secretary of Public Health and good friend, Dr. Joan Guix, who already had at the head of the iniciator, when he entered the Government, the need to recover the Public Health Agency as this autonomous body. Because effectively, since 2014, with the Law on Fiscal and Financial and Administrative Measures, he lost his legal personality, there was already a series of visions that were very insistent on the need to recover it. For a band, recover it as an autonomous and specialized organization that executed the policies [[the oradora darkens her throat]] – forgive – for public salvation, with efficiency, agility and flexibility. That this organization, moreover, was inter-sectoral and inter-administrative and that counted also with community participation, that recovered the territorial organization and that it is differentiated in these more strategic functions of planning, evaluation, implementation of those more executive functions and performance of the services of this field of public salvation. And I will focus on these different observed needs. For what it does to the need to recover this autonomous organism, effectively – and it has been discussed here in the previous ones, therefore, interventions – the current context has involved a globalization of the problem of public salvation – for example, remember zika or Ebola – and to make it hifront. As well as facing a series of emerging problems that we have in public health, such as the aging of the population, the emergence of emerging and re-emerging diseases, chronic and degenerative diseases, and also poverty and inequity, we can have these organizational structures that are more autonomous, more agile, more effective, that have the ability to adapt to these new needs. This is why it is important to recover an organization with legal personality, as precisely proposed by this bill, and which does so with the formula of an autonomous administered body. On the other hand, this legal personality is also justified by the assumption that it is inverted into public salvation, about 127_million, or by the number of workers involved, about 1,191. Moreover, this type of structure coincides with major or lesser measure with other similar structures of countries with France, with England or Canada. For what it does to the other one that was observed, that it is a cross-sectoral and inter-administrative structure, the model of salvation that we want for Catalonia, for our country, it is clear that it is to be oriented to the social determinants of salvation, and in this we do have a consensus with all the forces that there is in this hemisphere. Indeed, there are many factors that affect our health, and many of them are out of that health system to which reference is made, and in these different factors there is and can be influenced from cross-cutting or from the health strategy to all policies to which the Vice-President also refers in his presentation. We are clear, therefore, that in order to improve the salvation of the people, more than a few good, powerful, public, universal-access care services, we must also infuse into policies which fight against the poor, against injustice, against social exclusion, which ensure work, shelter, school for everyone, which guarantees access to culture, the health system, the environment, etc. Because from public powers we cannot allow the fact that we were born in a particular family, in a certain barri or in a certain city we have a worse or better salvation, and, therefore, the model that we want to be, to be more cross-cutting, multidisciplinary, community-based and participatory, because the community offers many acts of salvation that also help to improve the salvation and well-being of people, especially the most vulnerable. In short, salvation is the result of society's joint action, and it is the responsibility of everyone and everyone. This is why the model also needs to enhance community literacy and empowerment. All in all, we value positively that the bill of gifts among other functions to the agency to donate technical support to formulate, implement and evaluate the inter-departmental and cross-sectoral plan of public health, is to say, the Pinsap. This interdepartmental and inter-administrative character is also reflected in the composition of the Rector Council of the Public Health Agency, which, as has been said, has representation of various departments of the Generality but also of local authorities. Because the municipalities have competence in public salvation, they have a very important role in the public salvation of our people, and therefore we also applaud that this collaboration of the agency with those municipalities is foreseen so that they can provide a minimum of public salvation services, or give a technical support in case those municipalities already have suitable public salvation services. I also want to emphasize that the agency is said to be old enough to integrate the gender perspective into the development of its functions, and especially in the design, implementation and evaluation of Pinsap, ensuring, for example, the collection of gender-disaggregated data and developing qualitative and quantitative gender indicators. Here we can clearly see the firm and the will of the Vergés Councillor, as she informed us in the Health Commission when she presented, therefore, her plan for the department. I also want to highlight its role in promoting the competence of professionals and public health research, so that we can enhance the competitiveness of our public health services. For what it does to the third need, it was to recover territorial deconcentration in regional services. Even the context of globalization of this problem of public health to which it refers before, also to take into account that there is an epidemiological diversity in the Catalan territory, and this requires a differentiated and focused treatment of risk factors, with very specific actions that the need is a proximity to the population. And this proximity to the people is precisely achieved by recovering this territorial deconcentration through regional services, to which, from our parliamentary group, we also support. Finally, for what makes the need to separate the most political or strategic functions of design and planning of public health policies from executives and the provision of purely services in this area, we value positively that the Secretary of Public Health is able to dedicate to the first ones and is left to the Public Health Agency this more executive function and the provision of the portfolio of services in this matter, which we again explain in what it consists: it is the protection of health, the promotion of health and the prevention of disease, prevention of drug dependence, promotion of mental health, vigilance of public health, food security and job security. In short, from our group we will work so that this bill will become law as soon as possible, if it can be with the consent of all the groups that we are part of this hemisphere, listening to all the entities and all the necessary collections, but with the willingness that we now have of this organization to serve the best of public salvation, which, as I say, is one of the very important areas of our system of salvation. Thank you so much again. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.105.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And to finish this return has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Lluís Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.106.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, counselors, let me start with two complaints and a letter of responsibility. Two complaints. A first complaint: we are adhering to..., the unacceptable threat faced by Mireia Mata, and, therefore, we are adhering to the proposal made by the Republican Group, in the sense that this is to be denounced, it is to be protected and, moreover, it is not to be repeated. Therefore, we are adhering to this complaint, which should be practically unanimous in this Parliament, respecting this issue. [[Greetings.]] Another complaint, and this one has more to see, obviously, with the political context in which we find ourselves, a political context that is very conditioned and very linked to the legal reality that you have to see with the incorrect, disproportionate application of criminal law in the field of politics. It is easy to express this idea of different perspectives; expressed in this way. Yesterday the syndic said: there were many ways, politically, to face the reality and the political problematic that Catalonia has respect for the Spanish State; the solution was not in any case the criminal law. And they ask them to be aware that keeping people in exile, keeping people in prison and keeping political prisoners doesn't help in any case to solve a problem that doesn't need to be a year ago, but it's a historical problem, which is Catalonia's fit for the Spanish State. Therefore, they also need to be, in some ways, understandable and understand that it is not just a question that affects the policies involved from a criminal point of view, as is my case, but they need to be held accountable. We have to do politics; the Criminal Code has never been set up, nor must it be the mechanism for resolving political questions, because it means that, if the Criminal Code is applied, it means that it is left behind what is our responsibility, which is precisely politics. We are here to do politics, and the magistrates of the Supreme Court are here to solve other questions that they are keen to see, precisely, with political problems. And the key to accountability is this: today we have seen, in these interventions of the parliamentary groups, that it is perfectly possible to make politics, disagree, have no coincidences, even have legitimate differences, and that they further enrich parliamentary activity, without having to insult us, without having to use... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Without..., Assumpta Escarp, appreciated and esteemed Member of Parliament, I failed to explain and we would agree, as almost always, in some questions. No hurtful language should be used in any case. You have spoken correctly, all the Members of this House who have spoken, and that is more often than not to the Health Committee: we speak correctly, we speak basically of salvation, and we cannot insult us. Each one has the perspective that it has from a political point of view, and in salutation there are obviously differences that are low and that are deep, but we are able to talk about what interests people and citizens. Because, in fact, beyond our political differences, in the elections in which there was a greater political participation, which are on the 21st of September, we are not so responsible for the differences that we have between ourselves, but we are responsible for all the people who voted for us. But not only those who voted for the parties that are now government, but also those that are opposition parties must be responsible. In fact, this is the call to responsibility: it is perfectly possible, I insist, to do politics here without using hurtful language, and what we need is that we are still responsible for just that, among all of us. And I do not expressly ask a parliamentary group to address it, in a way, the concrete toilet; we have to do absolutely all of it and, therefore, hold everyone responsible. One time I said that, yes, I would like to comment that this is a law, certainly, in which the parliamentary groups have already explained it, that there has been a job provided that it would be very recommensurable throughout the processing of the bills, and it is that the department that has the will to indebt the activity of a bill, therefore, speak before the parliamentary groups. It is recommendable, it is edifying, it is positive and even accelerates or facilitates the work of the future question, that certainly, as we have already asked and asked all parliamentary groups, we must rush to form it, precisely to proceed to the approval of this law. It was also said that it is not a new law: this is a restoration, it is a new inn of a public health agency that in 2009, when it was planted in the area of the Law of Salvation, what it was looking for was greater efficiency, greater effectiveness, even from a point of view, conceptually, of how public policies work in all areas, not only in the area of salvation. And it was certainly seeking greater coordination, greater inter-departmental action, which I will talk about precisely in an area referred to by the member of the CUP, which is perhaps the only deficiency that can be detected in this bill, which has to do with education in salvation. And this education in salvation, it's true, can't only be done from the realm of the Department of Salvation, but probably the most interesting, the most appropriate is that there is a clearly interdepartmental view. In certain areas, in certain areas it is important that there is a collective, global work of more departments, because many areas have skills and spaces of coincidence in these issues. In fact, the bill foresees that not only the agency, in a way, works in which they are their own skills, which are literally defined, but that it is perfectly possible that the agency works in delegation of other departments of the Generality that have competences linked to public salvation. And this is a question to be done, I insist, from a perspective of coordination, of administrative collaboration, which is basic in the world in which we live, and even in the work in the field, in which it is first the internal flexibility, that this is another object or layout that makes this law, that is, that, like reality, certainly, is changing, that public measures and public policies need to be adapted every time more to reality, and, moreover, that it is done quickly and flexibly... We can't exactly look at old things: the speed, however, society needs to be explained every time more to reality, and, moreover, that it is true, as far as it is concerned, that society needs to be better informed, rather than society, that it can be explained in terms of expression... There is a clear concept of legal personality, a strictly legal sphere, which is public administration, it has not been possible nor is it understandable to think of any type of privatization, it is public administration, it works in the field of public law, and therefore this is also a guarantee of what it exposed. And, for another band, it's also important... that it's already been referred to, and it's also one of the questions I'd like to highlight, that this is a demand for the role of local administrations and joint ventures in the field of public salvation. It is certainly an area where the assemblies have a lot of responsibility, and it is likely that the larger assemblies – and in concrete terms the city of Barcelona, which MP Escarp commented – have the most responsibility, have the most skills, have more knowledge and know how to pass on much better to the citizenry. In the smaller groups, the small-middle groups have more difficulty in transmitting their responsibility, first of all, which are their skills, and more we do not have the mechanisms to work in a coordinated way on these policies. And the agency claims – certainly, let's see how it works – solve these deficiencies. There has also been a reference, and this is also a constant in the field of politics in the past, that policies are policy-making and, therefore, strategically what are the ideas and the ideas and the projects in the medium and long term that need to be developed, and that the technicians, the agency, the people who know the subject matter, work in the form and somehow have the guidelines sufficient to respond to these aspects of the speed that precisely in the field of salvation – there has already been reference –..., not only emerging malalities, that also, but also the emerging malalities, the giving of cases of abuse that seem to have occurred. The questions they make also refer, and very important, to the field of what is inter-departmental... When we talk about risks, we also talk about questions that they have to do with contamination, which depend on another department but which has direct consequences in health, and by another band also, therefore, the field of housing, which is also a question that has, certainly, connotations and which conditions some areas of public salvation that this law claims to be regular. I, in short, only wanted to say that from Juntes per Catalunya we support this project, we will work in the area of ponència so as to improve it – all the law projects that are brought to Parliament are and will be improved – and, in some way, I appreciate the good predisposition that the department has had to give you – before and until the whole debate arrives here in Parliament – to raise who are the doubts and concerns generated by this bill. In the later term, and finally: the role of the assemblies is transcendent, and that's why in the governing council – they already see it –, beyond whether from a quantitative point of view it has to be a 60 or it has to be the match between the 50...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.107.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.108.0	... – yes... – or 50_per_cent, it is obvious that the role of the assemblies must, certainly, be absolutely defined and acclaiming. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.109.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Take Escarp Gibert to speak.]] Tell me, Congresswoman, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.110.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ...I'll fill them in.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.111.0	Forward – forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.112.0	Thank you. In the first place I wanted to apologize to Congressman Guino, because I interrupted him, it's true. But, second of all, ask him – sharing with him, and with all the courtesy he knows we've always dealt with – to extend this call to accountability and to dealing with everyone – to the best, because we all deserve it, the best – also to his parliamentary group and to some of the government's responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.113.0	Thank you. The debate is over, and as no papers have been submitted to this project in full, this initiative continues its processing. [[Proposal for a resolution establishing a committee to study policies for improving the quality of life of large people]] [[252-00010/12]] And so let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a committee to study policies for the improvement of the quality of life of the great people. This initiative has been presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and in the first place, therefore, to defend it has the word of Mrs Elisabeth Valencia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.114.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillors, advisers, Members, Members of Parliament, good afternoon to all. I would like to begin by thanking the people in the residential sector who are with us today; thank you for coming to Parliament. Today we are here to ask for the approval of a study commission to improve the quality of life of older people in Catalonia. As a society, we have a debt to our elders, and we will not be a just and advanced society until we are able to care for our elders with the dignity they deserve. We owe them what we are; we cannot turn our backs on them when they need us most. From our parliamentary group we believe that creating commissioners to assess the effects of the 155 that escape parliamentary control is not a solution for the day-to-day lives of the elderly or their families. We want to create a committee for the great people that is needed, and we want to create it here in Parliament with all the parliamentary groups. The elderly are now almost 18_percent of society, and it is expected that by 2030 people over the age of sixty-five will be 25_percent of society; therefore, one_of every four people will be over the age of sixty-five by 2030. That is why, and because this committee will affect more and more people, we see that it is of vital importance. In the committee we want to discuss, together with experts in the sector, what types of policies are currently being implemented in Catalonia for older people, and we will also talk about the different challenges we face as a society in treating people over the age of sixty and five. The aim is to listen to the whole sector and make some conclusions that we will present to the Government, along with a timetable of compliance, because starting this commission is very good, but we want clear commitments from the Government. A priority objective is the group of elderly people who are alone, which according to data from the Idescat are more than 300,000 in Catalonia. These elderly individuals alone should be detected, especially those in vulnerable situations. To whom cannot chills go in reading such cases as those reported by Judge Joaquim Bosch on the rise of corpses in an advanced state of decomposition of elderly people living alone? We cannot accept this kind of society, neither as individuals nor as representatives of the citizens of Catalonia. We therefore need coordination between administrations and an autonomous strategy to intervene in situations of vulnerability, loneliness and abandonment. Another very serious problem to address in Catalonia is the waiting lists to access a residence. We have more than 23,000 people waiting for residence; we find it intolerable that older persons and their families should wait up to four years to enter a public residence. Neither this expectation nor the territorial inequality that exists in the care are fair. Our autonomous community is the worst in attention to Spain's dependence. This fact is compounded by the difficulty in the agility of the procedures of the Dependency Act. We must strive to solve a problem that is a social problem and is a problem for all; it is a human rights issue, we cannot look elsewhere. People are waiting in their homes for a resource as their vulnerability situation increases, even in cases of death. We must ask ourselves what kind of treatment and care we would like to have ourselves when we are older and whether we should direct policies towards this model of care. Would we like to need a residence, to wait up to four years? Would we like limited attention because of the lack of review of social service ratios? We want to show from here also the support to the sector working with older people, but especially to people in vulnerable situations and their families, they are our priority. We will do everything possible to ensure that people over the age of sixty-five are guaranteed their rights, are active subjects of society, and in particular we will leave the skin behind so that the elderly in vulnerable situations are cared for with the dignity they deserve. Finally, we would like to thank the parliamentary groups for their willingness and help in starting the work of this committee. All I have left is to wish us all a good job. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.115.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. As agreed at the Board of Spokespersons, there is now only one five-minute intervention for the rest of parliamentary groups, and two-and-a-half minutes for the subgroup. Therefore, it has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, again, Mrs Elisabeth Valencia. [[Pause.]] It had another turn; it had a turn as a proposer and as a group. Anyway, if I give up... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. All right, fine. Therefore, we follow the turn of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. Mr. Raúl Moreno has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.116.0	Thank you, President. The Socialists i Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this committee, this setting up of the policy committee to improve the quality of life of older people. In addition, we agree with the formula chosen by Citizens to make a study commission and not to propose a follow-up commission, as it did in the case of the disability policy commission. But I think it fits much better than what we want, which is to study the situation of the elderly in Catalonia, without the need to empty the Commission d'Afers Socials, Work and Families. It's okay for us to do an analysis, in fact, there's a lot of analysis done. I believe that, by studying, by analysing, we will benefit, but there are also many federations or NGOs that have already done analysis, and I believe that in this Parliament, too, different parliamentary groups have analysed the consequences of the policies we are currently carrying out in relation to the elderly. We have a great problem of loneliness – we have said it, said Mrs Valencia –; a low amount of pensions, especially non-contributory pensions and widowhood; a long waiting list for access to health care; an eternal waiting list for access to dependency benefits; a family expenditure that cannot bear between 1,400 and 2,400_euros worth a residence in our country, in Catalonia; accessibility problems, in the streets, in blocks, in housing; domestic violence; gentrification, which also affects many older people in some neighbourhoods of our cities; transport, within and mainly outside the metropolitan area; the right to die decently. So there are many problems that we need to study and that we need to move forward. But I also have to tell you that surely everyone will come out here to say that this study committee is very necessary, and it is true, but I think that we should also study what we are not doing well, or what are those policies that we apply and that do not work, in the case of older people – and I want to address in this case the groups that support the Government. Supporting the creation of a Catalan law on the great people in the last legislature, putting in place a six-month period and not fulfilling it, is not helping the great people; implementing policies as well known as ‘no euro for residences, is not helping the great people; having a comprehensive security plan for the elderly and not fulfilling it is not helping the great people – and it will also expire this month –; having residences without the Government ensuring that the elderly people are well fed and the well-kept professionals is not helping the great people; having waiting lists in dependence, the highest in Spain, even though other autonomous communities have reduced those same waiting lists with the same problems is not helping the great people. I would also like to address the Citizens' Group, which is good enough to propose a study committee to improve the lives of older people, but perhaps we could study whether by vetoing in Congress the ILP against the dependency co-op does not defend the elderly; that by vetoing, in March, the rise of pensions to the CPI does not defend the elderly; that by vetoing the proposal for a universal accessibility law or by supporting the budgets of the People's Party with an agreement to eliminate the pharmaceutical co-op and then not fulfilling it is not to help the elderly; that by supporting the budgets of the People's Party that continued to empty the dependency co-ops is not to help the elderly, and that considering middle classes for those who charge €140,000 is not to help the elderly, but not young people or adults, because it is something that is out of reality. And, therefore – and I end up in the same line as I said – I suppose we will all find that there are positive measures, such as the reform of the Urban Leases Act to regulate rent; revaluing pensions with the CPI; raising minimum and non-contributory pensions to 3_per_cent– something that affects 1.7_million Catalans and Catalans; creating a single energy bonus is something beneficial for older people; progressive elimination of the pharmaceutical co-op is something beneficial for older people; increasing the dependency budget by 40_per_cent, 515_million for next year, and thus preventing thirty_1,000 people next year from dying waiting for the benefit to which they are entitled. I think it is a good policy for the elderly and that will benefit 168,000 dependents of Catalonia, it is a good policy. That recovering social security contributions from non-professional caregivers is a good initiative. And that the Generalitat has 2,200_million_of_euros more to make policies is a good initiative. And, therefore, I invite you, apart from studying the problems we have in Catalonia, apart from studying, we could start to do effective things. And that would happen because in this same will that has the Catalan right and the Spanish right, with the help of the Republican Left of Catalonia, you vote in favour of general budgets of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.117.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.118.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Talking about the quality of life of the great people in this country means talking about the quality of our welfare state. And the truth is that after a decade of loss, wage cuts, public service cuts, and austerity policies for the whole of the city and fiscal exceptions, fiscal policies that are regressive for the richest, our welfare state has been broken. And this is the central element when we talk about the quality of life of the great people. We are talking about the two labor reforms; we are talking about the dismantling of our product fabric; we are talking about the closure and privatization and retailing of public services; and we are talking about the freezing of pensions and the plundering of pension funds, which have broken our social pact and have broken our intergenerational pact for which the people who work under worthy cotits because our parents and seas, opinions and lives, have decent pensions. To the deputies of Ciutadans, who today fill their mouths talking about the quality of life of the great people, I would like to read them two news of this year: « PP and Citizens maintain the veto of the Government to revalue pensions according to the CPI. You have not only given support to the most corrupt government in Europe; you have not only given support to the government that has frozen pensions and looted the foundation of pensions, but you have been able to revalue pensions at the Congress Table according to the IPC. The great people of this country have been given since 2010, 3,368_euros of loss of purchasing power in their pensions. The first question we will have to ask ourselves in this committee is: who was the impact of his policies at the Congress of Deputies? One second news: "Citizens propose applying retirement to the age of sixty-seven. Three months ago, his spokesman to the Toledo Pact Commission. One second question that we will have to ask in this study committee is: what impact does it have on people to retire at the age of sixty-seven? Or if they want to, what impact does it have on hard work and injury workers who can't continue working until the age of sixty-seven, will they have to stick to a disability pension; whether this has an impact or doesn't have an impact on their quality of life? The truth is that the poor among the great people, in this country, has the face of a woman. One of the five women pensioners is at risk of social exclusion and the pensions of the women in Catalonia are 516 euros lower than the contributory pensions of men in Catalonia. A third question, today that they have come to fill their mouths on the great people, if they do not cause them the face of shame that the leader of transversal feminism to Spain, Mr Albert Rivera, has been supporting reactionary policies that have created a brettxa in the pensions of a 37_per_cent between men and women in this country. In this committee we need to stop advertising and talk seriously about our great people. The people who have been an example of dignity during your years of shame defending pensions and defending their re-evaluation. That we listen to the great people, that they are the ones who have built up this welfare state and they are the ones who have conquered the rights and freedoms that today your policies pose at risk. To speak of great people and to speak of policies to improve the life of the great people to see, fundamentally, on three axes of the welfare state: the Law of Dependence, the agreement of assumptions– said the socialist company, between United Podemos and the Government supposes an increase of 40_percent in the policies of dependence; we will also have to ask ourselves what is the impact of their votes on the assumptions of the Congress of the State –, or the guaranteed income of citizens, lords of the Government, thirty-five rows with the seven years of austerity: forty_ thousand expedients of guaranteed income of citizens enclosed in a call, which should allow us to supplement non-contributory pensions, widow's pensions and pensions under the protection of the poor. And obviously pensions. The agreement also revalues pensions on the CPI. We will have to ask ourselves in this committee to study the impact on the quality of life of the great people, not of their words, of their actions at the Congress of Deputies. Assessing, as I said, policies for the great people is evaluating our welfare state. And it is not surprising if the conclusions of this committee are that you and your policies are the greatest threat to the quality of life of the great people in this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.119.0	Thank you, Congressman. All followed is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word the deputy Vidal Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.120.0	We could analyze what it could mean to have 25 percent of the population in a few years in less than sixty-five years. It could even be analyzed from a social victory perspective, which is how they have won rights that they have provoked and generated that good part of the population can live more years. And that's also part of the analysis that we have to do, like winning social rights, we not only gain quality of life but can live longer. But it can also be analyzed, from another point of view, that it is the denial of rights, which is what in good measure wants to set up with this study commission. We should, indeed, do another reflection, which is: the problem will not be or would not be that we have two million people in a few years older than sixty-five years, the problem is that surely we will not have eight million people more than sixty-five years younger. And an exercise as normal as that of the migrating people, which has always given itself to the length of our history, today is criminality. We will not make an option for increasing families – it is not our visit, each person can decide whether or not to increase the family – but we do think that there can be policies that do not criminalize migration or migration, but facilitate it. Then, if we're talking about what's going to be the fund problem, the fund problem is pensions. And, look, if we want to talk about pensions, let's start seeing what all the groups that are in this hemicicle said when there were-there were pension counter-reforms in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014; all groups, including the 2011 counter-reform. But also, obviously, what happened to the Law of Dependence, that there could have been a good law in its development and its realization, and that suddenly, at all events, it was decided that it was suspense, as it would have been, that it had to go to administrative content in order to be able to resort to certain denials, and that, therefore, it could not actually be effective, for the good part of the population that needed it most. And this is the essence that we see in social policies and that they have an answer in social policies. On the issue of the committee, we want to explain what our position is. Look, it doesn't seem bad that we're studying, that we're analyzing, that we think we already have enough data; but the same committee, even though it was studying, was also raising another element that passed to see prospects for normal changes. And that's why we thought we already had where to donate, which is the Labour Commission, Social Affairs and Families. Therefore, we will abstain, with the good intention that this committee can work, and so well it works, but with the critical view that we must then go to the Labour Commission to solve it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. All the same, and on behalf of its Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, is the return of Mrs. Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.122.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ... in favour of this committee of study, although I believe that we often burden this Parliament with making committees of study which, while interesting, I believe that they should unload what should be the real implementation of these policies of development, in this case of large people, of social services, which belongs to the Government, and that, therefore, we should be demanding, much more, in this Parliament, not to pay so much attention to committees of study, but to the demand and control of the Government that it effectively deal with the real, tangible problems of Catalans, in this case of large people, in their policies. And that, of course, we will not put ourselves here, the Parliament, to make commissions on other matters that only serve to expand the independent narrative but that do not improve the day-to-day life of people. And very briefly I would like to make a point to Mr. de Podemos in Catalonia, because I think sometimes they don't come with the lessons learned. The greatest achievement to combat this gender gap in pensions was made in 2016, when this maternity supplement was incorporated into women who had been mothers throughout their lives and who, moreover, for that reason and in some circumstances had had to leave their working lives, and therefore were given a supplement that already benefits, depending on the number of children, more than 250,000 people. I believe that this measure will seem good to you, it will seem to you that it has served just to combat this gender gap that exists in pensions, in which, obviously, we have to continue working; but sometimes it is good not to come here with great apocalyptic speeches, and more Lords of Podemos in Catalonia, with the lessons learned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.123.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it's the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group. There's the word Mrs. Rut Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.124.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, house staff, late maid, ja. According to the data of the Idescat, the major population of sixty-five years increased from 18.47_per_cent in 2016 to 18.63_per_cent in 2017; two years ago, the major population of sixty-five years was 16.25_per_cent. The aging index increased from 116 points in 2016 to 117.5 in 2017, and was 109.5 years ago. The birth rate suffered a fall back a year and life expectancy increased progressively. So, it is clear that the aging of the people in Catalonia is a fact. There is a demographic transition that will soon lead to a transformation in the population. And now it is curious, therefore, that the youngest Member of Parliament here is putting this reality to the fore, but ultimately it is necessary to foresee the consequences that this generational change in society can produce at length. Before it's too late, now's the time to take this big change as a great action and be able to look for the forts, in accounts of just taking into account their threats. And it's evidence that we're moving towards the reversal of the democratic pyramid – and before that, too, Mrs Escarp was referring to the previous intervention – and that was linked to us moving towards a society where the resources destined for the people that conform to the stage of aging will have to be greater than what we're currently devoting to. This demographic change has been linked to the increase in life expectancy and makes us reflect on the importance of taking into account the new public health and social policies with a new perspective, and also establishing basic rights for large people in terms of protection, monitoring and participation, as well as socio-economic development, to predict the system when the percentage of people large than conforms the population is much higher than today. And, on the other hand, we cannot avoid, therefore, the problems that today the great people of Catalonia must overcome in their day-to-day lives. Working to find solutions and answers to their current needs is important so that people who find themselves in the vital age of old can continue to develop, advance and, above all, improve their quality of life. So, all the pleas, however, we also need to reflect on the creation of this committee. We also help to clear up the Commission for Work, Social Affairs and Families, the current committee that has to work today to improve policies related to the great people. From the outset, we believe that this is the right framework for improving these policies, as it reflects the transversality we need to bring them to an end – and also refers to the fellow member Vidal Aragonese. And, therefore, I appeal to all the parliamentary groups that are voting today for the creation of this study committee to continue to be aware of its consequences; therefore, I hope that the situation is not produced, that we would regret all the pleas, that we do not find all the papers debating and working on the best quality of life of the great people. If until now the space where all the needs of the collection were to be addressed in a comprehensive way and give answers to the present problems and advance to those of the future was the Commission of Work, Social Affairs and Families, from today, if the proposal of resolution prospers – which in principle must be so – we still have responsibility for providing it with content and not only with symbols. Therefore, we do not believe this committee of study with the sole purpose of making it party and to look good in front of the gallery. As I have already commented, the democratic studies already warn us that every time the hope of life widens, and this sets us back for the better of the attention of the great people, attention to dependence, dignified life, and also loneliness, among other challenges. And that's why they'll find us here in the Republic Group. As I was commenting, we will support the creation of the Commission for the Study of Policies for the Improvement of the Great People, because we trust that this must be the space of reflection and rethink and rethink the policies that affect your future, but also today your presence, and also as we organize ourselves socially from then on to face this demographic change. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. All the while, and to finish this turn, has the word Mrs.Saloua Laouaji, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.126.0	Hello, good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, workers, advisors, advisors and representatives of some entities and invited people, in relation to the creation of a commission, of this committee to study policies for the improvement of the quality of life of our great people, to begin with, let us point out the fact that the composition of the world population has changed in a spectacular way in the last decades; the world is aging, and Catalonia, obviously, forms part of the world. And, when we refer to the quality of life of our great people, we must do it first and foremost from the perspective of municipal and particular reality, for a better understanding of local reptes and an adequate attention to the needs of our citizens. And also from a global perspective, because, according to the data of the United Nations, in today's nearly 700_million people are older than sixty years. This means that today one person is sixty years old or older. At the same time, it is necessary to understand that demography is fundamental to sustainable development and that the dynamics of any population will be those that shape the main challenges of development facing the world in the 21st century. The aging of the world population is a matter of concern to all generations of all countries, because this transformation into the composition of the population will have profound consequences on all aspects of life for people and society. And, if our legitimate demand and ambition at this time is to build a future that we want and aspire to a life more worthy of a more free Catalonia, it is clear, therefore, that we need to pay more attention to the needs of all the collectivities, specifically the concerns and challenges of the great people; to make creative social community policies that place the individual in the center. Thus, we must not forget that the great people can continue to contribute in an essential way to the good functioning of the society, if the proper guarantees are established. Human rights are at the basis of all efforts in this sense. We also need to remember that with the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in the celebration of this year, 2018, of the International Day of the Great People, it commemorated the importance of the declaration; it reaffirmed at the same time the commitment to promote the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and the fundamental freedoms of the great people. For a better discussion and approach on the subject we must bear in mind that our society is full of myths and ideas based on ignorance, as you look at stereotypes towards various collections linked to diversity, and our great people also suffer from this look full of prejudice and, sometimes, discrimination, because of the negative perceptions that they have created around the aging. We need to get old for the big people, but with the big people, without winging and without victimization. And for all this we, as a group, will vote in favour of the creation of this committee, which we want to become a real workspace, and not just an answer to a use that could be opportunistic to the needs of the great people to our society. As we are talking about the collection of the great people, I would like to remind you that our companies and companies who are taken and exiled also have, like all of you here, families, like you, of the great people, seas, couples, Germans, avies and advisors, that they suffer and exaggerate, because they are closed or extended for unjust and political reasons, and that their great people cannot see them with normality, as in the case of any family. Finally, to say that our great people are the important source of the transmission of knowledge and the wisdom of life, is our intangible assets, both human and active, that we must cherish, listen to, protect from vulnerability and care and, above all, respect. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. Once the interventions have been completed, we will vote on this resolution to create a committee to study policies for the improvement of the quality of life of the great people, including the message that has been signed by all parliamentary groups and parliamentary subgroups and that, therefore, obviously, they have at their disposal. I understand there is no separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So let us proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 123 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] We suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.128.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. [[Question to the Government on the sale of arms]] [[300-00039/12]] We're still on the order of the day. In this case, the new item of this order of the day is the inquiry to the Government on the sale of arms, an inquiry submitted to the Parliamentary Group Republic. The question is made by Mr Ruben Wagensberg. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.129.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, well, if we have decided to make this inquiry is, of course, the concern that generates us being responsible, in our part, for the sale of weapons, and above all the ultimate concern that this weapon will end up causing the death of civilians at the end of each year. The Spanish State, it is clear that it has made a political bet for the arms industry, an industry that is very powerful, it is a fast-moving industry, at the same time opaque. Well, while historically the largest customer of the Spanish arms industry had been the same Spanish State, it is certain that since the beginning of the economic crisis, internal sales have been made through the same State, and it was the same State that helped, through its ministries, to supply these internal sales, to make them through third countries. The military industry is very opaque. It is so opaque that we can find soldiers who have passed from the army to the direct teams of arms companies, such as Indra or the case of Navantia; defence ministers, such as Pedro Morenes, El Carnicero, who say that he had also been, at one time, Secretary of Defense or Secretary of Security, and that, at the same time, he is one of the main or had been one of the main entrepreneurs of the country's arms industry, where, certainly, during his term as minister – before being re-located, that is, as the Ambassador of the United States – the companies to which he was linked were remunerated for up to EUR 115 million per Government. We can also find cases on the other hand, where the defence forces that were... end up linked to arms companies that generate millions of euros, and they generate millions of refugees and thousands and thousands of deaths. Of course, refugees who, while trying to escape from violence, find themselves bordered, and it turns out that they are borderline risers for the same companies that make the war, and all, you know, with investments and credits from the main Spanish and Catalan banks. Finally, as the citizens would say, here we do have an authentic hillbilly, that the Spanish State has an authentic hillbilly with the arms trade, where it participates from the same State, but also hundreds of arms companies, the bank and the monarchy. We find ourselves, right now, feeling the set-state – the set-state – world-wide, arms exporter. Last year it sold defense material worth 4,347_million euros, a 7.3 more than 2016, a trend that points to going up. The interministerial commission, to which the arms manufacturers have to ask permission to export, donated green light, during 2017, to contracts worth 21,085_million euros. That's 280_per_cent more than last year. And the problem, in the band of the volume – which we also consider, of course, a problem – lies above all in the fate of these weapons, where these weapons are going to be stopped. The main customer of the Near East of the Spanish State is Saudi Arabia, which is now the first customer of the Spanish State outside the UN. The past year, for example, bought from Spanish companies an airplane to transport troops, bombs worth 90_million euros... This xifra is equivalent to a lot of bombs, and bombs, as far as we know, serve to make wars. Wars like that Saudi Arabia began in Yemen in 2015 between the government forces, raised for the coalition led for the same Saudi Arabia, and the rebel movement of the « houthis. Moreover, the blockade of this coalition has led to a human disaster, with more than 80 percent of the population now in need of help to survive; this means that if Yemen had a hundred inhabitants, eighty would need help to survive. From 2015 to 2018, more than a thousand bombardments were recorded in this region, drawings of alleged war crimes were taken and deliberate and indiscriminate attacks on civilian targets were carried out. This political initiative, President Pedro Sánchez denied – that is certain – the sale of four hundred precision bombs to Saudi Arabia, to avoid – and in a very uncertain way – that it is fessin' to serve against the civilian population in Yemen. A few days later, however, we do not know whether, through the tricks of Saudi Arabia or the very arms companies, it seems that it has been squandered, it has been turned back. The arguments used by the same president were – and I quote them textually –: "I prioritized maintaining economic and trade relations with Saudi Arabia – point 1. I point 2: « to guarantee jobs in the Bay of Cadiz. Well, some statements, if not, a little macabre, because the economy and international relations must not, in any case, be about the right to life, but must, in any case, be at the service of people's lives. It still emboldened a little bit more and made clear its absolute disconnection from the law, when it ensured that ‘the responsibility of this government reaches our borders. What third countries can do is not the responsibility of this Government. Well, the law says it very clearly: the Treaty on arms trade, ratified by the Spanish State in 2014, prohibits the sale of arms to countries that could use them to commit genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes; Article 2 of the Common Position of the European Union on the export of arms, which is the only legal mechanism linking, at regional level, arms control, says that "it will deny the right to export if there is a manifest risk that the technology or military teams to export can be used to commit gross violations of the international human rights. Vaja, who all points out that the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia systematically violates the international law. Finally, we can find a resolution of the European Parliament of 13 September 2017 that believes that concrete exports to Saudi Arabia do not, as at the very least, comply with criterion 2 of the common position for which it makes the country's participation in gross violations of the human rights, as established by the competent authorities of the United Nations. And he reiterates his petition of February 26, 2016, on the urgent need to impose an embargo on the weapons of Saudi Arabia. However, the Spanish Government often goes on to say that it has asked for and asks for documents with guarantees because these weapons coming to Saudi Arabia cannot be served outside its territory. It turns out that this is just a document, a document that can be paper mullat, and more so when the interministerial body that authorizes or denies arms exports, the JIMDDU, does not approve 99_per_cent of these exports, and does so in meetings that are totally secret, its acts are completely confidential, in fact they are confidential because it takes place in the secrets of the State through legislation that is issued in 1968, that is, in Franco's time, and therefore we do not know at any time how to assess the risk that these weapons will end up using Yemen against the civilian population. This lack of transparency makes it possible to violate the same legislation, and what is harder is that this weapon ended up in the hands of countries in conflict. And that's why entities like Intermon Oxfam, like Greenpeace, like FundiPau and Amnesty International have launched the campaign "Arms under control and demand that the Spanish government halt arms exports to Saudi Arabia, before the signs that the parties to the Yemen conflict have committed, with total impunity, gross violations of the international law. They claim to Spain, therefore, that they follow the path that they have already made countries like Germany, Sweden, Canada, Finland, Norway or Belgium, that they have stopped selling arms to Saudi Arabia, the same way that they have also made them to the Arab Emirates or to Egypt, that they also consist of the list of customers of the Spanish military industry and that they are also part of the coalition of Saudi Arabia to Yemen. We have already announced that we will present a subsequent motion to this House and that, therefore, we will give the opportunity to explain ourselves clearly, concisely, directly to all parliamentary groups, their position with respect to the sale of arms, in concrete terms to Saudi Arabia, in order to be able to approve a position of Parliament that allows us, which allows the Catalan Government to demand in a way..., with greater force, we could say, to the Spanish Government, the suspension of the transfer of these weapons and, therefore, to deny the authorities of arms exports to that country, for the high risk of being used in the conflict in Yemen. It is very clear, Members and Members: either we are at the cost of life, or we are at the cost of terror. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.130.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Ernest Maragall. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.131.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr Ruben Wagensberg, for the initiative you have had to present this inquiry and for the content of the inquiry. It seems to me that, from the point of view of opportunity and need or convenience that this Parliament enters this question, it is quite clear and quite indisputable. The figures, which we already know is worth remembering, are serious enough to do so: from March 2015 until August, they have died, according to the Office of Human Rights of United Nations, to Yemen 6,660 civilians and 10,500 and are wounded. And it is obvious that the vast majority of these dead and wounded are caused by the bombings of the international coalition led by Saudi Arabia. Let me make it clear: the sale of weapons to Saudi Arabia does not complement European legislation, does it? , from this point of view is illegal, let's say, because this legislation explicitly and fully obliges us. As Mr Wagensberg has done, we remember that Article 2 of the common position of the European Union on arms exports is the only legally binding mechanism from the point of view of the control of the sale of conventional weapons. And in this common position it is clear that the export claim will be denied if its concession is not compatible, among other things, with respect to the human rights of the country of final destination, with the risk of a heavy violation of the international human rights, with the criteria that the country of final destination has armed tensions or conflicts and that the weapons can provoke or perpetuate armed conflicts, etcetera; or if there is a manifest risk, it adds to the position, to attack another country or impose by force a territorial claim. Points that, almost all of them, explicitly and absolutely fit with the present and dramatic situation. Despite all this, the European Union is the world's second largest arms exporter, with more than 26 per cent of the global market. Export..., 15,000_millions/year are coming to Saudi Arabia and 27,400 to the United Arab Emirates, which, by the way, are also part of the same coalition; all of this, with data from 2016. Spanish, in this, he's a leading actor. According to the available data, Spain exported weapons in 2017 worth 4,347_million euros and placed it in the seventh world position, and Saudi Arabia is our third customer, huh? "Ours is a euphemism; more quickly" his, we should say. It is clear, therefore: Saudi Arabia is a country that violates human rights, that uses arms against civilians in the war with Yemen, and, as the Council of Human Rights of the United Nations said, in the August report of that same year, it became clear that between September 2014 and June 2018, the Government of Yemen and the Coalition of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have committed acts that, pending a resolution of independent courts, acts, repeats the Council of Human Rights of the United Nations that amount to "international crimes, and says so literally and clearly. So, on the other hand, the United Nations tells us that the situation in Yemen is the worst humane crisis, which has a severe impact on 11.3_millions of extreme affectation of a total of 30_millions of inhabitants. And, on the other hand, to end with this description we also have the resolution of the European Parliament this same year, in September 2017, which says that exports to Saudi Arabia are not in accordance with a common position for which it makes the country's participation in gross violations of the human rights. And he talks about the possibility of imposing a arms embargo on Saudi Arabia. Well, then, and also, as is obvious, this same resolution reprehenses states that incomplete this common position and provides for the possibility to establish sanctions in these member states. But it seems more important than all of this, or above all, at least according to the authorized view of the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is the important bilateral and friendly relationship between Spain and Saudi Arabia, which is, as it is also said, from the same source, the first trading partner in the Near East and the second Arab investor in Spain. And that what it takes is that this bilateral and friendly relationship has to be combined... in this relationship we have to combine our interests with our values and principles at once, is said. All right, so the question is immediate: is this the coherence of the Spanish Government and its Ministries of Defense and Foreign Affairs? Why this very thing..., is it to say, why is it said at the same time that Members of the Socialist Party in the European Parliament, for example, vote in favour of that resolution of the European Parliament which we have just commented on and which absolutely condemns this practice? Is this the coherence we have to accept? Or why, then, do we have to accept that the economic benefits of some concrete sectors go hand in hand with commitments to the European Union, international law, human rights and basic and minimal political responsibility? Is this – we ask Mr. Borrell, and the Spanish Ministry and Government – his combination of interests and values? All right, I think he's..., if we add more evidence this same week to Minister Borrell's participation in the Senate..., he would say that the intervention in Yemen is framed by a resolution of the United Nations Security Council, and that, therefore, it was legal... ; false, huh? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. False of all falsehood. It's not like that, Mr. Borrell, no. The Security Council Resolution 2,216, finally, says many things, but in the case of armed intervention and actions that the coalition is leading to the end of Saudi Arabia, more quickly proclaims the legitimacy of the government established to Yemen, so yes, and demands that negotiations, dialogues, by the way, allow the conflict to end, eh? But, please, at least don't alter the truth and don't play with the prestige and positions of the United Nations. I think that... I don't know if it's a temporary conclusion, perhaps, but it doesn't seem temporary: it seems as if the Ministry of Defence has become a major company, a big commercializing company of the armamentist industry; it seems as if one of the functions, or the main function of this Ministry of Defence is to make the armamentist industry a reseller, yes, it does, also count with such powerful commercial agents as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, explicitly, or, as we all know, the same Spanish monarchy. So this is the panorama we're facing. We can end up saying that Catalonia does not actually have skills that allow it to act and make decisions in this sense, and that, therefore, it could be criticized: it is easy to make these types of statements, these types of positions. We are bound, as a society, in coherence with our tradition and with our usual position in the land of poverty and human rights, we are obliged to seek solutions, to intervene, not to shut up, and not to shut up, starting to denounce the delusion of this Spanish government behind this strictly economic interest that allows us to continue with the failure of these international norms. I believe that we are doing some good, such as the strategy that we have to narrowly define the requirements, the guarantees that will be required of our businesses, our institutions, our non-governmental organisations, in their external action in the field of respect for human rights; we are working, as you know, and we have already announced – and I hope that we will soon be able to concretely present this proposal for the regulation of basic rights in this Parliament – this proposal for the regulation of basic rights. And that's why we also want to thank Metges without Borders, or the Solidarity without Borders organization, which is the only Spanish NGO present to Yemen, which have received a subvention from the Catalan Agency for Cooperation, a modest subvention, 16,900_euros, but which is significant. Certainly, that same entity rep 200,000_euros of individual contributions from citizens of Catalonia, which is already more significant. I believe, if at last..., that with the motion that the Member announces to us, and which I hope we can approve appropriately in this very House, we must be clear about our position on all this case, on this issue, that of Parliament and that of the Government; we cannot remain in the role of critical messengers with regard to the Spanish Government, nor of complaint. As a country with a long tradition in the defence of the peace, as we have said, we must take concrete measures in the field of the protection of human rights, of international cooperation and of the initiatives that can be taken by the European Parliament in this same sense or by other European, international institutions, such as the United Nations, the same European Union or other international institutions in the defence of the peace. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.132.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into security policies relating to the right to private property]] [[302-00020/12]] We continue with the twenty-first point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into security policies relating to the right to private property. The motion was presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. In order to expose it, Mr Xavier García Albiol has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.133.0	Yes, good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, noting that the motion that we are presenting today is obviously a motion for an inquiry into some facts that we are dealing with and that I must tell you with all sincerity that we are also concerned about. And we are concerned because we are probably talking about a fact that it is a very serious problem for a part of the people of Catalonia, especially certain barrels, certain municipalities, certain populations of Catalonia, where the occupation of "illegally lived" has no longer become a social problem, that for a part of the people who occupy these" lives, therefore, we could hear and believe that even so and justify, but that the problem has also become..., for all those people who touch them living as they see it, as they come to these circumstances, because they end up in a problem in most cases of coexistence, of incidivism and, even, crime. This is a young man who, as I say and explain, wants to pose on the table..., wants to set up an important debate, but it is a young man who is trying to convey a philosophy that everyone, regardless of our way of thinking, of our ideology, is able to try to reach a few minimums of agreement. And with this line I want to point out in a very clear way that the philosophy of the document, of the motion we have presented, is this: put on alert and find cross-cutting solutions. Let us resolve to vacate from, obviously, in some cases to police action, but also, for those who deserve it, the response through social services or including coordination through the different spheres of public administration, the coordination between the municipal and autonomic spheres in most cases for, as they say, trying to give a response that is at the height of these circumstances. And that's why I have to tell you that we've lost in the last few days different items to different groups, and it seems to me that one aspect to value is that almost all items have been accepted. Issues from groups as opposed ideologically as it can be in Comú We can even issues from the Socialist Party, issues from Ciutadans. And, therefore, I believe that today we have the occasion to give an image to the people who are painting this problem, that over legitimate, political debates, in those aspects that have a social influence for whom they suffer in some cases and for which indirectly they suffer the consequences, therefore, we are at the height of the circumstances. The other day when I asked the councillor, he said to me: "No, it is that Mr. García Albiol, you presented this question because you have to campaign for Badalona. It is certain that there is a problem in some barrels of Badalona, the occupation is a serious problem in some barrels of Badalona, but we are talking about Badalona as we could be talking about the bar, for example, from Can Parellada to Terrassa, from Can Serra to Sabadell, the bar of Sant Joan Baptista to Sant Adrià del Besòs or the Raval de Barcelona. Therefore, we are not talking about a problem located in a municipality or with an electoral intention, as was raised by the councillor, but we are talking about a problem that happens to many, to many..., as I gave to the initiator of my intervention, to many cities and which unfortunately is affecting many people. Therefore, signify and say that we have accepted all the papers. Some of them have been trading. We did not reject only one of the four or five that the Socialist Party presented, but the rest we accepted. And, therefore, I believe that this must be the philosophy that must prevail in a social problem like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.134.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now to defend the papers presented is the turn of the groups and, in this case, initially of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the word of the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.135.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies, well, in a few days we've talked twice about jobs. We did so last week in the Committee on Territories in the debate on a motion for a resolution by our group and we did so today in this motion presented by the People's Party. In the presentation of reasons for that proposal we say that we are on a premise and that we understand that there is occupied habitat because there is empty habitat. Therefore, we cannot be expected to act against the occupations if we do not first act against the empty habitation. Interestingly, you don't refer to this question in the motion you're presenting to us today and we didn't feel that you were doing it in your inquiry. We also say that not all occupations were the same. It is not the same mafia occupation that takes advantage of to negotiate with the desperation of many people, and that even uses habitats to carry out criminal actions, that occupation of families that suffer from a launch, after they cannot face mortgage quotas, and that they decide to occupy the same habitat that they have been deprived of. They're not the same and we can't face them the same way. What we have and are clear is that this is a reality that needs to be addressed. And that the Government of the Generality cannot continue with the same strategy as it has until now. The strategy, if I may, of the structure, we lay the head under the ground and do not see the reality of what is going on. With this strategy the problem does not disappear, it does not disappear for those people who are really affected. Who are they? So the families that find no other recourse than to occupy; the communities of the owners and the sentient barrels that suffer from the mafia acts, and, ultimately, the joints, which in the end have to manage these very complicated situations well, because the Generality does not act. You have focused on this young man, basically on the mafia occupation and, as I said, we believe that this gives a partial view of the phenomenon. And in this sense we have presented the papers in the line of the proposals that we have also made in our resolution proposal: the phenomenon of occupations must be addressed in a comprehensive and cross-cutting way in order to meet the social needs that in many cases are related to these occupations; the venous conflicts that can occur must be addressed; it must be fought against the mafia and police and judicial coordination must be improved before the Mafia occupations. And to do all this as a process of debate and reflection in different areas. On our proposal, we approved the creation of an interdepartmental table to work at the level of the Government of the Generality on this issue. But we understand that it may be a good thing that experts from different backgrounds, as well as municipal entities, are included in the work of this work. And, in this process of reflection in the actions that the Government of the Generality pushes, we hope that there will be sufficient resources to work together with the assemblies to keep the information necessary to respect the empty and occupied floors that exist in our towns and cities. Only with a good diagnosis, only having all the information of reality, can we act effectively. And, in this process of knowledge of reality, the gatherings cannot follow alone. We continue to demand joint action by the Generality and joint actions to combat empty and, therefore, occupied habitat. And, finally, at the last point, when they talk about seeking solutions to families who occupy by social and/ or economic motives survived, looking for solutions through the public park of the Generalitat, we want to remember that we are waiting for the approval of the regulation contemplated by Law 4/2016, which should help to clarify the situation of many families who are at risk of residential exclusion. This rule is collected from the law and also from a member of the last legislature. And our group, in view of the fact that it was not approved, presented a proposal in this sense that gave a three-month time frame for the approval of the regulation. This temporary margin ends at first of disembarkation. At the moment we have no news, counselor, that it is progressing in the making and, therefore, it is pleased to be granted for this Parliament. As I said, on the subject of occupations we go late, too late. The inaction of the Government, the partial settlement of the problem that also makes this motion, brings us to the need to do so decisively and cross-cuttingly. Let's hope that in the last agreements that have come together and can be taken today, they end up with this young man, the government, finally, acts and solves a problem that affects many people and many barrels, and that can result, and in some cases even has already resulted, in social conflict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.136.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Jean Castel has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.137.0	Thank you, President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members. Well, Mr. Albiol, today we're in front of a young lady... it cost me a little bit to do the exercise for the questioning, and then read the young man. You were talking about that campaign, weren't you? If there were five times to say the Badalona word, we understood that you were already more with the governor, the future governor of the Badalona Assembly, than the current deputy here. That said, look, you also spoke, from your inquiry, of those invisible people, those who suffer, those who do not take into account, those who – in some way – are silenced by an administration that does not act. Look, we're on board, and we've taken this young man, where we wanted to introduce two items that we were working on. Miri, when there are pathetic people, when there is illegal occupation, home rape... When we see – and we talk about it in a young man too – it doesn't happen, in a plenary, that he was also talking about illegal occupation, when we talk about the area of organized crime, the mafia... Miri, his young man may have left behind talking about the area of salvation, which is also a distance, isn't it? But I understand that I was very focused on finding solutions too in part. I also want to remind him that in that youth in which Ciutadans was able to approve one of the points by most, we are talking about the field of salvation, of drug addiction, and more, that it is also a point of inflection when we speak at times of occupation, narcopies and others. But well, when there are children, great people, women who see sexual exploitation, as we were able to find... Miri, you have named the Raval Barrel; it is not a full example. When we talk about business as an occupation... you relied a lot on this illegal... we find it a waste. And the suffering of the veins, as I used to say. Here I will begin with the second point that Ciutadans proposed to him, which was very much in the line of asking for zero tolerance, the same one that we were already going to ask for from the motion that we were going to present in this plenary. But today I will be able to ask for zero tolerance in two respects: one, before the crime, organized bands, all the scope of the mafia and the illegal occupation to subcontract, to carry out illegal and all this scope of organized crime, but also the desire to ask for zero tolerance before the suffering of visions that have long endured situations in which the Administration does not provide solutions. That said, we expected the Administration, just as they expect a lot of lives, let's solve real problems, let's solve that the political side has to work on. Mirin, today I wanted to thank you – and I don't have the interior advisor. Just as sometimes it's up to you to say what it's about, today I wanted to thank you, because when we see that the professionals in the police field work and have this freedom and they're not politicized or working for other things that don't touch in a council, so we see that the professionals in the security field have the devices, the opportune ones. A week ago I saw him and I wanted to thank him. And that's also what we put into another task at Operation Bacar, an operation that donated its fruits. But I will also say to him: we do not want to see it a week ago, it must be that when we apply it and it has results and objectives, we want to see it in a continuous way, a way that, if we want to see it a week ago, it will be a question of seeing it in a continuous way and that we also bring solutions to these problems that affect not only the owners, not only different administrations, but also we see. Look, when the public servants want to thank the police and the Squad Movements for this action... And today, from my parliamentary group, we want to thank both the public servants, the judicial office and the investigative courts, that sometimes when we coordinate the results arrived and the work was done. As I said, Operation Bacar. And we also have great reptes, great reptes, when we talk about public housing. Listen to me, the lords of Podemos... we've all seen it, haven't we? A gathering he said..., and he won't get to a quarter of what he promised, those four thousand habitations, and he'll get a term close to a thousand habitations. That said, the Generalitat..., her mismanagement, another, the protection of public housing. Listen to me, I already said in that intervention, the Victoria Kemp, we have public housing occupied, and we all know what happens in that occupation. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Say that, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.138.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.139.0	... that we have accepted these two points, wishing the motion to be approved – I finish, president – and wishing that we find a solution, but a solution between all, a solution that must bring peace, light and hope many times. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.140.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Congressman Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.141.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, deputies, deputies. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of two points of this motion, namely point 1.bis and point 2.a. We will vote in favour because we have made a statement that has come together and that has finally been negotiated between the proposed parliamentary group and the Socialist parliamentary group, which is neither more nor less than the creation of a field of work, discussion and deepening on this issue in order to be able to tackle it in a deeper way. And the other point is that it makes a positive assessment of the operation that last week the Urban Guard of Barcelona, the Squadron Mosses and the training courts did to the city of Barcelona against the narcopies, operation that was in the metropolitan area, because it affected a network of traffic of stupefants and that it had to the city of Barcelona, therefore, a very important center. In these two points, we will vote in favour; in the remainder, we will vote against it. Why would we vote against it? I'll make it very clear to you. Mr. Albiol, we already know him. You and this guy who's got us, they're all sloppy. We do not want this young man to serve you or the People's Party to start a new campaign of "Netegem Badalona", "Netegem Barcelona" or "Netegem Catalunya". [[Greetings.]] Because in these campaigns I can assure you that we can't count on it. Yes, I can count, as I can prove, on the point of your young man, that we have to address this issue with no demagic and no populism, making a debate about what is behind the debate of the occupation and of the empty habitats, which is something that this young man does not address. And who are the problems behind it? Well, it's very simple. We are talking about the debate about speculation in housing and about mercantilization, without any beginnings, of the right to housing. I think it is possible that the People's Party is happy with the change in criteria that the Supreme Court announced to us yesterday on the issue of mortgage taxes. We are concerned about this issue. Actually, the people who have right to a habitation, what difficulties they have in our society, to be able to access it. And, obviously, it has become clear, with this change in the criteria of the Supreme Court, that this problem remains well alive. It's about getting into the background, and that's not what the text says, in legal changes. At the Congress of Deputies, it will be a new law of urban leases, because you can make life plans, living in lloger, something that today is practically impossible, when at the end of three or four years you are out of the piss of lloger in which you are living? Is it possible that you are making a new mortgage law, that we can stop the banks from taking over people, we could say, and apply unknown clauses to people who sign a mortgage, and that they mortgage them for life, and that even when they lose their habitat, these people are still paying the piss they don't have? These are debates that should be present, and that also have to be occupied. Obviously, we share the theme of implementing those police and judicial protocols that are essential. For example, relocations must involve social criteria of vulnerability, thinking of families that have children or where there are large people. Does this issue have to be or does it not have to be in the law of urban leases? It's not there, we don't see it in this proposal that we're dealing with. Or, for example, as I said before, the problem of empty floors, because there is a reality that I have already explained that I think a week ago, in a young man who seemed to be presenting the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, that the data from the report on the occupation of empty housing in Catalonia tells us that 82_percent of the floors occupied in Catalonia are owned by large estates, businesses, financial entities and investment funds. So, some of these narcopies, most of these narcopies that are in the city of Barcelona, know why they can't be emptied? Because their owners do not exist physically: they are speculative societies that play with empty habitat. While people don't have a home, there are people who do business with houses and get rich. And all that, Mr. Albiol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.142.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.143.0	...he's not in his seat. And I can assure you that at the barrel of Badalona and at the barrel of Catalonia that you mentioned...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.144.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.145.0	...this problem I'm talking about is real. Open your eyes and put this on your face, too. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.146.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix its position, has the word, in the first place, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.147.0	Yes, we intervene from the escó because we have very little time. This motion for a resolution by Mr Albiol reminds us very much of the motion for a resolution that Ciutadans has already submitted. Under the pretext of citizenship, under the pretext of coexistence, therefore, what is claimed is to equate organized crime with occupation. What is more, what is claimed is to equate organized crime with a very powerful political movement, a political movement that does fight against real-estate speculation, against tourist speculation, and that is the movement occupied; a movement that every day brings us new experiences of self-management, experiences of assembly, solidarity among people living in the same barriers, and experiences of community. But to come back from this proposal, what really sticks up is the defense of a very concrete security model, a way of hearing security and public order from a reactive and non-preventive perspective. We have long demanded that we take a step forward in this direction, that we bet on a more community-based police model that takes into account the needs of people, that sets the ethical order before the public order, which is what they are talking about in the motion for a resolution. And, if Mr. Albiol so much, so much worried about security policies, then he went to the debate that the mayor, who was mayor of Badalona did, in Badalona, with security experts, where they also participated in the security bodies and where they did a great, great job in trying to reverse the situation in which the city had remained after the security policies of the People's Party government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the following place, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Congresswoman Eva Baró. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.149.0	Well, thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and Mr Albiol..., look, except in two very concrete points, the 1a point and the 2a point, we will not support your motion, because it is that we do not share in absolute – in absolute – the hope of this text. Irregular housing is a direct consequence of two circumstances, huh? : the lack of suitable housing, for one band, and the excess of empty housing, for the other, caused in large part by the esclat of a real estate cylinder, of a financial and economic crisis, over which you have had a very large share of responsibility. The phenomenon of occupation has existed for many years because of ideological motives, and on occasions it has also dealt with crime. But the social occupation, the occupation for economic reasons that have survived is a more recent phenomenon, which basically affects families, and which concerns us a lot and which we should all be very concerned about, because it makes sense that many things have been done very badly. And it shows the situation of risk and housing emergence and the extreme situation in which people of flesh and bones are found, families with minors, opinions, avies, young people... Mr Albiol, those who tell you are the great majority – the great majority – of the occupations that are produced today. Only three data that Deputy Nuet was already anticipating us and that actually came from the Housing Occupation Report in Catalonia. First time: 82_percent of the flats occupied– occupied– in Catalonia are owned by speculative companies– big owners, companies, financial entities, inversion funds. Second given: the occupants are, in a 70_per_cent, families, half of them with small children. Third: the motivation of the occupation is, in 75_percent of the occasions, the lack of resources. Demolition. Demolition, Mr. Albiol. And you see us with a young man who omits this reality olympically, who does not know that the vast majority of people who live in an irregular habitation do not do it by taste; no family with little children occupies a piss by taste! It's not an option for life. You, in your own case, have no manners in the matter of big broc, occupation and social conflict, which is unacceptable, because one thing is that the occupation of a "livestock" involves a problem between two private individuals, the occupant and the owner, which, of course, can resolve, and can be understood to be a conflict between two rights: the right to private property and the right to a decent habitat, and can make them compatible, and can respect both rights. But one thing is this and the other thing is to suggest that the occupation, so in general, huh? , automatically, in itself, therefore, generates social conflict with the entourage of veins, which according to you are the real victims. Listen, here are many, many victims, Mr Albiol, victims of speculative policies and support to the banks that you have been making for years, the central government. A young man who even knows that sometimes even there are people who occupy without being aware of it, because they are victims of mafias who take advantage of their situation of vulnerability. This is a complex structural problem that requires cross-cutting interventions in many areas: housing, social well-being, coexistence, social cohesion, mediation, the legal environment, and also safety, meaning doubt. It is a problem that public authorities need to detect, manage and eradicate; but each occupation requires a specific focus, and this implies having the sensitivity to drive at every moment and in the measure necessary to what is within our competence, both to guarantee the right to a decent habitat, as well as to avoid occupations, as to manage the venous discomfort that can occur on occasions. It seems to me that Operation Bacar, which has already emerged in various mentions at the length of this debate, which has allowed the dismantling of a criminal organization operating through twenty-i-sis narcopies, is an example that the public authorities do not avoid the corresponding approach in each situation. I understand – and it's also said, we're all pretty good, I think – I understand that this young man is in charge of what I'm in charge of. You're in the campaign. And therefore, and for this reason, hers is a particularly harsh motion, which makes the exception category, deliberately and unjustifiably alarmist, which stigmatizes and criminalizes the poor, which even flirts with the point of little at the door and questions a police protocol that has been able to effectively match with impeccable respect for rights such as the presumption of innocence, as it cannot otherwise be in democracy. That I already know that for you, so, this later, it's not that it's not main, it's not that it's secondary: it's that it's directly irrelevant. But for what we democrats respect to all rights is sacred and unforgivable, and that includes the right to private property, but also the right to a decent habitat, the right to the presumption of innocence, and, certainly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.150.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.151.0	... all the effects. Also what he does to political prisoners and prisoners in this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.152.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it's the turn, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Mr. Marc Solsona. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.153.0	Thank you, Mr. President. MPs, MPs, first of all, say that since the proposal for the taxation of the past divestitures there are many that today, here, we feel less free at the time of speaking from this Faristol. Mr Albiol, first of all, just as the inquiry turned out to be a good one, avui also had a good one, but, if I may, I will quote the textually from '11 October 2018, now no more than three weeks, here at the Ple del Parlament, which said the following: "When I was mayor of Badalona, I installed more than two hundred and fifty steel plates on floors that were at risk of being occupied. I put in place a protocol to avoid occupations, and that was done with determination, with will and with clear ideas, and not with a behavior more like those who bet on goodism rather than solving problems. Go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on So look, Mr Albiol, with Junts' votes for Catalonia you can't make this speech, we won't vote for it. Basically, because we won't campaign for him, we won't whiten his speech, and because we're not guilty of what he can say..., going from "Cleaning Badalona to rocking Badalona. Therefore, as they are from other models of hearing how to deal with this complicated reality – and it is true –, we in this sense will not do so. Look, the occupation, we've said many times that you have different looks. Asking the Interior Department about occupation issues, we consider that this is not the best way to address the issue of occupation. Because the social, housing, emergency, emergency themes require other sights, and we have sufficient tools, including legislation, for this Parliament of Catalonia, to allow solutions to the issues of emergency and emergency housing. And, besides, now, after the withdrawal of the appeal, we must also see how we strengthen these laws so that we can actually give better tools so that we can give an answer to all this. And for the first time the Parliament of Catalonia, with these laws, succeeded in putting in focus and, therefore, in standard text the concept of housing without enabling title; therefore, that it can contemplate the issue of occupations without enabling title, and this also opens a way for us to give answer to all questions. Therefore, we consider that what we need to look for is solutions to problems, not to remove problems, as would be the proposal that you put forward. And, in the end, we don't want to cause problems or, in the end, sometimes pursue the misery, emergencies and personal dramas that surround the world of occupation. Do we act before the mafias? Yes, obviously, and at all levels; that's why we'll vote on the 1a point. But what we won't do is, with the excuse to act with the mafias, criminalize the victims of these. And that's why we can't give support to this young man, just like we didn't give support in the days..., to the young man also presented by the Citizen Group. That is why many times we have explained the different types of the world of occupations: occupations by necessity, that they are those that are to be channeled through the laws of emergence and of urgency housing, and the tables of social emergence; those occupations that are the fruit of deception, that the one that is occupying sometimes has a contract, but the contract is not good because what actually does it is what has begun illegality; there are organized mobs, and there are also occupations, let us say, ideological. Therefore, it is a framework, and we cannot always locate the segelol of the occupation calling the Department of Interior, because before the occupation it is not only to be pursued, but also to be tried to solve, and mediate. And also do something that is meant to be asked by the citizens, so that they can also help each other to look sometimes for this detection of these occupations that are often the fruit of this need. I also think it's important that we can do this. Of the new points of the motion, we will vote two, the same as Catalonia in Comú, and also those of the Republican Group, basically for this: because in the rest of the points the occupation is identified, let's say, at the level of persecution, and only the visions are identified as victims of this occupation. Those of us mayors know perfectly well that it can pass is clear and that there can be problems in the streets, but there is one other thing: the law also for the first time recognizes that through venous reports it can also act before problems of occupation. And sometimes motivated occupations can have a channeling through the venous reports that we make the gatherings to give-out. So, we don't want to try to make it look like we're inventing the soup from there, because, by luck, with the few skills we have, we can have a normal mark enough to be able to answer people's problems. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.154.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to position himself on the exams, it's a turn, again, for Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.155.0	Well, many thanks to the groups that support... – regardless of whether they are punctual points, I want to thank you – but, listen, some of you, god-n-you are obsessed with whether I'm campaigning for Badalona or I'm not campaigning for Badalona. When I get started, I'll invite them all to you, so they can come and see it with their own eyes. [[Widow's remorse.]] But what we are seeing here, in this House, is a real problem on the part of the people of Catalonia, and it seems to me that frivolizing with this issue does not help anyone at all. Clearly, I, of some things... I want to thank the support, and I say it with all sincerity, but, of everything that has been said, there has been some expression, especially the person who came out in the name of the Republican Left, therefore, who is scandalizing me. Clearly, saying that what I'm trying to do is stigmatize the poor... is that they don't know what the story is about. It is precisely who is suffering from these consequences, which is why we are doing our job, that are the people who have a more humble and difficult economic situation. And there is a problem for some of the people who occupy the ‘living', that's right. We still think that the one who really causes problems is the one who deals with it in a mafia way, huh? The ones they occupy to do business. But above all those who suffer the consequences of these occupations – to see if they know it, I say it with all respect – are the veins of those blocks, and those blocks are not the veins of people who live in Pedralbes or who live in certain barrels of Sant Cugat...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.156.0	Congressman, they're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.157.0	...they're of humble barrels, and so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.158.0	I remember it's a turn to position itself on the exams, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.159.0	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.160.0	What's a twist to position yourself on the exams, eh, Mr. Albiol?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.161.0	Mr. President, I'm doing it, in my own way, huh? [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.162.0	In his own way, exactly. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.163.0	In my own way. I don't know about another one, but I'm doing it. This interruption is gonna give me 15 more seconds, huh? [[Rialles.]] So, as I said, the problem is that people are humble and they have a problem of lack of economic resources. I want to keep the positive side. I thank most of the groups that have decided to give support in one way or another to this motion that we have presented. And see if all of us can, so put a thread in the needle. Thank you very much. Oh, and you're invited, huh? - You're invited. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.164.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yes, Mr. Castel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.165.0	For a cheering.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.166.0	Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.167.0	Re, an acclaim, because the motion that Ciutadans presented came out... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.168.0	One moment – one moment, one moment – please. The deputies and deputies, if they want to silence their sco... were trying to speak to Mr. Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.169.0	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.170.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.171.0	...it was an acclaim, because there were two parliamentary groups that seemed to be talking about that young man who presented Ciutadans. Just a reflection on a question: do you know how many public promotion habitats have gone to term...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.172.0	Mr. Castel, this is obviously not going to happen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.173.0	The number's turned: zero. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.174.0	Say'm, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.175.0	To ask for a separate vote from the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.176.0	All right. Voted separate from the first point, yes. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.177.0	To ask for a separate vote on the 1a and 2a points that we could vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.178.0	Mr. Solsona, the same one? [[Pause.]] All right. Any other separate voting petitions? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. So, we'll vote first on 1st, 1st and 2nd together, and the rest of the vote? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Is that it? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Granados, you asked for point 1; not 1 and 1 bis, but only 1, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't know 1st, I only have a 1, 1a and 1b. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] U, okay. All right. So let's move on to vote point one, only one. The vote begins. This was rejected by 40 votes to 72, with 17 abstentions. Let's just move on to vote on the 1 bis point. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, yes..., 1 bis and 2a together – 1 bis and 2a. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into infrastructures that are the competence of the Generality]] [[302-000017/12]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, which is the twenty-first point, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the infrastructure that is the competence of the Generality. When you're ready, Mr. Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.179.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies, despite the fact that political instability does not help, the economy maintained a high and constant growth rate, until the second quarter of enguany. And among the economic players that drive the sustained growth of the Catalan economy, we have the industrial sector, which continues to feel the most dynamic. But we still need to resolve it – he said in the question I asked the councilman fifteen days ago – the lack of infrastructure that they provide to the citizens of the country, but to the economy of the country, right? So, if we solve these blisters that we still have, I am convinced – we are convinced – that we will make the Catalan economy more competitive, and in the past, in its conjunction, the Spanish economy. I believe, because we have all spoken, and therefore this is our opinion, that there is a position without cracks in the economic and social sectors of the country, which begin to warn us that, in certain territorial and infrastructure environments, there is beginning to be a situation of col·lapse, especially around large metropolitan agglomerations. This congestion that we can already notice, that we can practically live it every day, makes our economy less competitive every day. The same day I asked Councilman Calvet, the president of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Valls, also warned us of this position, this concern, which has an impact on production costs, and therefore on job creation, and which, in terms of public safety, also has its consequences in the form of contamination, as we have seen, or as various studies also warn us these last days. In recent years, investment in transport infrastructure and equipment in Catalonia has been sustained by the efforts of the local administration. It's time to start reversing this situation. And it is also evident that there are three levels of administration that operate in the country's infrastructure: the State as such, the Local Administration and also the Government of the Generality. We believe that it is important, in order to address this problem, that there are assumptions both in Spain and Catalonia, because without assumptions it will not be possible to advance in the third addition, but neither will it be possible to advance in those investments that are direct competence of the Government of Catalonia. We believe, councillor, deputies and deputies, that it is possible to reverse these years when the Government of the Generality reversed it by..., at these times we are practically half, 12-13_per_cent that meant in the contribution of infrastructure to the overall public expenditure, we are half. Because, man, responsibilities with construction, management and maintenance of infrastructure, the Generalitat also has, in some cases, exclusive competitions. Sometimes, they present motions that are very long. We, this time, have wanted to concentrate the movement on two points, which seem essential to us. One, say to the Government: "Present at the time of the next five years, and in a proper way– we have already proposed at the end of the year, in the end it will be six months–, which are the priorities of the Government in terms of investments, which serve as the basis after the future director of infrastructure in Catalonia, which ends, the current one, 2020. And we said to him: "Home, the two priorities are fixed in public transport – we said it –: completion calendars of line 9 and 10 of the metro, of the extensions of line 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the metro, and the connection of Railways of the Generality of Catalonia between plaça Espanya and Gràcia, that would allow us, therefore, to connect the Lower and the West. And we said to him: "Home..., and the other is the compromise we believe that..., the Government of the Generality in the assumptions that it will present by 2019, that there is a compromise to increase this percentage contribution of public investment in infrastructure in the context of public expenditure. Very simple: two points to instruct the government of the working generality. Because the Government of the Generality is not always able to hide that the responsibilities are of other administrations. You've got it, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, it is the return, in the first place, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the return of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.181.0	President, thank you. Counselor, MPs, MPs... well, we talked about these days too, that one of the main challenges we have as a society, and also as a country, is the fight against climate change. And, from our humility, which we are trying, from Catalonia to Comú, that this is one of the debates that we have here in the Catalan Parliament, that we can talk about climate change, that is one of the topics of debate in this Parliament and in Catalan society, and also, well, as it is in other societies, as it is, for example, at these times in Germany, or as it has been, for example, at the elections that were held this week in the United States. We also have these days, the United Nations alerts us to the limit situation that we live at the planetary level, that if we do not take bold, distressed and urgent measures, we will arrive at a limit situation, and that we are at risk of the temperature of the planet increasing 1.5 degrees, if we do not do anything, even well before what was expected, between 2030 and 2050. Therefore, we also believe that this should set the agenda for the debate on infrastructure in Catalonia, and I take advantage of the opportunity to speak in the Parliament of Catalonia, to encourage all Members to take part this weekend in the March for Climate, which is the demonstration that organizes different ecological entities to claim courageous, urgent and distressed policies in the fight against climate change. We have presented a practically simple approach, with no construction, with the idea of giving support to the movement, which is that, in this case, for the planning and execution of the infrastructures of Catalonia, the objectives of mitigation and adaptation, that is, the fight against climate change, also serves to set priorities and is taken into account at the time of defining which infrastructures we want at the level of Catalonia. And as, in this case, he also quotes the text of the motion, and we also share it, this means prioritizing public transport infrastructure, so long as the connection of line 9 is completed on its central tram, perforating the metro lines we have especially in the metropolitan area, the connection of the north, right? , in this case, that of the two railway lines of the Generalitat. So, as I said, the bet for public transport. We have to say that we expect the young lady to approve, but we worry and have the feeling, we've said it some time, to the counselor, even though he doesn't share it, but what, no? We think we have a government that's more of a friend of private transport than of public transport, that's more of a friend, in this case, of..., not of reelers, that not of the transport network, in any case, surely can be an erroneous appreciation, and we'll also see, right? , how will your pocket be developed, and, after all, what will happen in your own assumptions. A_second point that we also share in the motion is the need to increase Catalonia's public investment in infrastructures, especially, as I said, in public transport infrastructures that allow us to fight the climate change, and we believe that this should begin, as the text of the motion also quotes, in the assumptions of 2019. The year 2017, if we are not wrong, was executed an 83_percent of the assumed public infrastructure in Catalonia. We are talking about 487 million that are far from where was the rate of investment in public infrastructure in Catalonia that had occurred years ago. We know about the generality's financial difficulties. We know it's very difficult to recover the levels of public investment in infrastructure, but we think that we can and should make an effort on our own assumptions, don't we? Therefore, we would expect to see what is the proposed assumptions that the Government is proposing, in this case, to see if these two objectives are complete, namely, first, a clear priority in public investment in those public transport infrastructures, which are essential to mitigate the effects of climate change, to adapt to climate change, and above all to reduce CO2 emissions, in this case as well, to reduce pollution. And, second place, increase, as the motion also quotes, the public investment in Catalonia gradually from the assumptions of 2019. Tell them to worry, therefore, about the statements recently made by the Secretary General of the Economy, Mr Albert Castellanos, that the margin there is for the assumptions of the year 2019 is practically minimal or, not to say, escàs; I say this because, well, there are also many objectives at the budgetary level, but the news that comes to us, in this case on behalf of the same Department of the Economy, are not positive. And we do want to convey to you that, for what you yourselves claim, neither the lyrics nor the music of the assumptions sound too good. In any case, we will wait to see if these objects that fix the motion are complete or not in the proper assumptions. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.182.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, of Deputy Javier Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.183.0	Thank you, President. Counselors – not in tenim –, deputies, deputies... This is a motion presented to us by the Socialist Party. I would start with: « In a place of Lleida, whose name I don't want to remember... A while ago I was visiting a village, a village in the province of Lleida – I will say sins, but not sinners – and I was visiting a friend. It's a medium, small town, which is on the bed of a river, on a plane, and it's bordered by soft hills, isn't it? They're not too big, are they? We were in an elevated part and that gave us a perspective of the whole people, wasn't it? He, as a good Cicero, and as a lover, logically and inevitably, of his people, was pointing out to me: "Look, that is my house, that is the mill, that is the assembly, the church. And he pointed out to me: "Look, and that is the ancient Roman road. He stopped to say that the Romans had passed there through his people, and that it was the access of all life to the people. And then he showed me that access had gone from east to west. And I asked him, "And that, why? So, as a bird's eye, it was at least strange, wasn't it? , because, orographically, the natural entrance was that of the Roman times, wasn't it? , and that was a fork that had involved a disassembly and that was expensive. He told me that in the fifties, when the asphalt came to his people, they changed the entrance there. I didn't get it. I asked him: "And that, why? And he said to me, "This is the mayor's curve. And I didn't understand that concept and asked for enlargement. I said to him, "What does that mean, the mayor's curve? He explained to me that the mayor at that time had his particular interests and had the natural, logical, technologically efficient route changed so that he could pass the road ahead of his land, ahead of his land. It is an example of the spurious use of infrastructure, of infrastructure policy. And I think it's an example to follow, isn't it? When we started the last legislature, in the Territorial Commission we were observing that every two by three came, so a request from each people asking for a roundabout, asking for a subterrament, asking for a thousand things, legitimately and logically through their parliamentary groups. We find a danger, and it is that sometimes the one granted, the approval of those works, or not, depended many times, again, on whether the mayor is of my party, or if I do this work I will have a benefit in the region for the next elections, and that cannot be, that is the mayor's turn again in version 2.0. That is why we made a proposal which reflected what we are practically voting on today, which is to make planning, more technical than political planning, which would take a little out of the infrastructure equation for politicians, because we usually have a deviation, a tendency, so sometimes a little pernicious. I have to say that all the groups voted against us and that the PR, we lost it, and that what they put us on the table today we will vote in favour. The Chinese have a saying that « black cat, white cat, I don't care if you hunt mice. And in this case, I think it's a positive contribution. Point 2 calls for increased investment in infrastructure, and a priori it is a binomial that fulfils: more money, more work, so a priori it can be positive. I have to say that we do have serious doubts that the government will then actually fulfil the parliamentary mandate, because it is a government that is more installed in the dialectic of the aggravation, of « the teacher has me mania, and with that we do not go very far, it is a journey that remains short. I suppose we will be given two reasons: one, funding, which is always insufficient. I want to remember that in this..., not so long ago, in this same Chamber, in the days of President Montilla, when he ruled Esquerra, he ruled Initiative and the Socialists ruled, here it was said that we had obtained the best funding in the history of Catalonia, what happens is that we had little lasting joy. I also suppose that the government will argue that a third budget is committed just to start the legislature, which is true, but that is that with this we arrive at the version« curvature of the mayor in 5.0. With the crisis we have all learned new words: 'Stability law, 'budget deviation, 'expenditure rule; and the alternatives that have emerged to compensate for the 'German method', 'the toll in the shadow. It's just that we're pioneers. In the year 97, Jordi Pujol, president of the Generalitat, inaugurated the Transversal eix twelve times. Then, over time, we knew that one part had been paid by the Government of Spain and the other part remained as a payment in the shadow that we are still paying. I mean that the infrastructures..., a little the capital sin of politicians who want to pass into history more as Pharaohs than as public servants, eventual, for a while. Investing, yes, but in every soup there's always a hair, isn't there? I give two examples, because I see that I have eight seconds left, and I would need two_hours. Segarra-Garrigues Canal: 1,000_million budget, 800 spent, 25_percent achieved. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Line 9 of the metro: 2,000_million budgeted, 4,000 already spent, and they say it will end up costing 16,000. This is version 5.0 of the mayor's curve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.184.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.185.0	If this motion – I'm finished, President – serves to minimize something, they can count on us, logically, as always, to turn the infrastructure around. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.186.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the honourable Member will be Gerard Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.187.0	Well, president, thank you. Counselor, MPs, MPs, well, today, in fact, speeches until now beyond the "curves of the mayor, black cats or white cats, and I don't know what..., I won't go in there, say so. And I'm going to go into a motion tabled by the Socialist Group, in this case, and I think I'm going to be the first one to speak strictly about the motion, but I'm going to have a hard time abhorring them, maybe, but I'm going to try to censure myself to their content. That it's a faction, that Mr. Terrades poses, quite simple, isn't it? Why, actually, did you say that, sometimes we're encyclopedias, right? In the format of a young man who ends up feeling like a whole revolution that we don't know well what they're asking for, or that they're asking for it all now, don't they? And here, it is true, it is a concise, concrete young man, two points; in which what is asked is probably a better..., or planning in the face of the future. First of all, I would like to thank the will of Mr Jordi Terrades and the Socialist Group for having agreed, also with the Group of Catalonia in Commu, this motion for a resolution which I believe actually lays the groundwork for improving or trying to implement the investments that are planted, right? Public works that are planted, in this case, in the concrete case of public transport. There are actually works that need to be done and that the government has the will to do. Mr. Calvet, Councillor Calvet has announced them, but they are also workers who also come from announcements or wishes, also from Councillor Rull, that I want to have – for the first time and badly time – a record for him, today, therefore, that he is unjustly engaged in the prison of Lledoners. And at the end of the day – and what Mr. Terrades's proposal is looking for is precisely this – putting black on white, in a period of concrete years, which public works of which there are compromises have to be done. And, therefore, what is the government's leadership, the priority to be able to do them. It is true that we understand that this must be at the top of infrastructure that is to be done by 2020, as you know, that it must start by 2020. So the PDI from 2011 to 2020 is in the finals. It is true that it also coincided at a time, say, of economic recession and economic difficulties in order to be able to invest and to be able to do the works that were planned. Therefore, it is certain that it could not be executed, just as we would have liked it all. It is also true that the incompliments of the State do not come from Mr. Montilla, who said Mr. Rivas, the incompliments always come from the State. You can agree on one thing, but in any case, the State, in general, speaking badly, I'm going through the lining, right? And, therefore, it is true that there has been a lack of commitment on the part of the State, and we could also enter the third, etcetera. In any case, this does not mean that the Generality does not have, therefore, the part of concrete responsibility to face up to what is its competence and, therefore, with this motion that we lay are the foundations of the future master plan that must have infrastructures there. We also have the will, black on white, diguessim, to increase the percentage of investments in public transport. And Mr. Terrades poses, more with names and surnames, some of the necessary works. In this case, it is necessary, in addition to the city of Barcelona, but also of the metropolitan conurbation, such as the enlargements of line 1 of the metro to Badalona; the extension of line 3 to the Baix Llobregat; the connection of the L8 of the Plaza Espanya to Gràcia, effectively, which interconnects the two railway lines, the metro of Vallès and the railway, so to speak, of the Baix Llobregat and of the Anoia, or the central tram of line 9 which, as you all know, moreover with an insistence on the part of the department, therefore, to be able to obtain the resources in this case of the EIB in order to be able to finish financing and to make a plan of execution of the work, which, as you know, with a view to the end of its own costs, as well as the end of its costs, as well as the cost, it is difficult to accomplish its own work. Therefore, these are important works for Barcelona and the country. Therefore, we have reached this agreement with the Socialist Group so that we can lay the foundations for this future planning, so that we can develop these works. And in this respect, my group will vote in full in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of the deputy, Mrs Anna Erra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.189.0	Thank you, President. We can't make it look like we're living in a normal situation. There have been reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State claims more than two hundred years in prison. That is why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. We won't give up. Councillors, deputies, deputies, today the Socialist Party presents us a motion because the Government of the Generality present, before the end of 2018, a plan of road infrastructures, railways and transport competition of the Generality, which is fixed priorities in a time of the own five years. And obviously this was accompanied by an increase in public investment in the assumptions of 2019. That is to say, two clear lines of action that we are totally in agreement with. A line of actions to run and an investment program linked to a financing forecast and capabilities according to the presuppositional availability. So as I said, before that, we can tell him that we share these objectives. Since they are also priorities for the government to improve infrastructure and, obviously, to have the money to invest there. Now, we need to be real about the problems we have. You know that the investment plan that is called for is, in large part, the infrastructure plan of the metropolitan region, which will have to draft the ATM and that the current plan, as has been said, is until 2020. But everyone knows that a job like this requires a term not less than two years, so it's impossible to keep it written before the end of 2018. That's why we've asked them to start, in a six-month period, work to develop the new infrastructure manager and we appreciate the acceptance of the item. Now, we also know that an investment plan has been linked to a financing and that we can see the presuppositional difficulties encountered by the Department of Territories in carrying out the current plan, it is obvious, as well as the effort to get out of this problem by looking for other alternatives, as is being done jointly with the Department of Economics, negotiating with the EIB to get a loan to finish line 9 of the metro. A presuppositional compromise for a few years, but if it is obtained it will allow to specify a detailed schedule of the inn in service of the L9 and the L10. Because we need better funding and that's why our commitment here, that's what it is and that's growing. But I would like to remind you that Catalonia is well aware that until we remain a republic, a good financing will not have it. And before this situation, I would like to say that you, with this young man, are very demanding, and that's what it's about to do, that's true; but I would also like to say that this demand is being made in Madrid, now that you are in government, because of the pressure to invest in Catalonia, which was more than 4,000_million euros, most of the actions still have to be started in total practice. And we all know the importance of better infrastructure: because people can move, to create centres of economic dynamism, to improve the environment and to cope with climate change, as they called for the party of Podemos, and also especially for those who live outside the conurbation of the Barcelona area, because we know of the importance and need of better communications for the loyalty of people in the territory and generate opportunities. And what do we find? That the State has not reversed anything and that there are still important infrastructures that are up to date. There are a few examples: the Variant of Vallirana, the Fourth Belt between Abrera and Terrassa, the finalization of the A-7 Valls-Montblanc, the National II of Girona to France, the unfolding of the National 240 of Lleida to the White Borges, or the so demanded underground of the lives of Montcada and Reixac, that dilluns itself is made a unitary act with the petition that the end is made this underground for, above all, the security of the people who live there, or the unfolding of the R-3. As I said, we agree to invest, to improve infrastructure, and we all set priorities and timelines. Now, we – I repeat – are aware of the economic problems that the country has, but, still, we will continue to work to plan, invest and look for the money that is possible to advance in the management plans that are striking, so as to improve and advance in the infrastructures of the territory and the country. And that's why we're voting for this young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.190.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] To fix its position, then it has the word, in the first place, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. The word has the lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.191.0	Thank you. Good afternoon. Well, this young man has been adjectived... to us, I don't know if because I still consider myself new as a Member of Parliament, the adjective that came out or as we call it was just as ambitious. And, in fact, looking at the two points that there is and how they like them – not just in this, but in many points – start studies, start commissions..., that is to say, concrete, small, we believe that, well, on the other hand, we will not support these two points, for a little bit concrete, little ambitious and ambiguous. On one side, to begin with any investment plan we consider that we need a step forward, that is to audit the debt with the aim of knowing who the investments have been that have not responded to the collective interest and, if anything, to clear its responsibilities. I would also like to know the environmental impact of these investments, these great necessary infrastructures, which I am sure we would very much agree, if we went into the detail, on these infrastructures; but, well, as if we didn't go into much detail – in some of them – we see that it would be a little more practical. If we analyze the situation of all these infrastructures, we see that the vast majority are not under public control. There are two ways through which these infrastructures escape power and popular control, that is, democratic control and with a transparency exercise: from one band, we have those public infrastructures managed by the State, such as the ports of Barcelona and Tarragona – even though we are not talking about ports – or from the other, we also have those public infrastructures of ownership of the Spanish State or of the Generality operated by private companies, such as the payment highways or high-capacity roads with sites in the shade. We believe that what is to be done all the way from the Spanish State's rail and regional service to the Generality and that it would be better than – more than some have done since 2010 – these lines are fully equipped and that the investments that the Spanish State should have made in the rail network are facsimile. But that is why the PSOE does not say anything about the responsibilities of the Spanish State for the transport of railways in Catalonia. And, therefore, we understand that she's also a little hypocrite in this sense. On the other hand, and to finish my intervention, we don't support it, as I said. Remembering the L9, which was so much spoken today, that it is essential to remember that it is one of the most scandalous economic holes in Catalan infrastructure, which started with Pujol, and also continued with But and the tripartite. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I, to end, just to remember..., now ugly reference to the N-II that goes up to France ; for us the N-II...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.192.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.193.0	... up to the North Catalonia; yesterday, which was the Diada of the North Catalonia, therefore, remember that caldria would also speak in these terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.195.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this young man's debate has begun well, and I have been about to begin the intervention congratulating Mr Terrades, because he had succeeded in focusing on the subject of the debate; I say: "To put it well, let us focus well on the subject of the debate, until, when Mrs Anna Erra spoke, everything has spread, and then, Mr Terrades, I can no longer congratulate him. Because, as much as this young man thinks he'll get approved for the numbers I've heard, I think we've already heard that this isn't going to happen. Why do you make a layout that's very appropriate and very reasonable, to say... I must have done it the other way around, didn't I? : first, guarantee resources, ensure that investments grow, that the percentage of investments grows, and then say: "Listen to me, and now we plan; now that we have the resources, we plan. Because the reality is that in 2017's presupposition... if you can go looking for resources outside of the same Generality, obviously it has to be, and we will already support it and do what we can to go looking for resources. But between 22,000_million euros of non-funded expenses of the Generalitat only goes from 1,500 – in parentheses – to inversions, home, seems ridiculous. Especially because 1,000–1,000! – they are commitments made by governments until the year 2010, of the tripartite; and, therefore, real, for nine investments, only 500 will go away. Therefore, man, it seems to me that from a presumption of 22,000_million euros of expenditure not to be financed only is destined 500_million euros to nine investments, competence of the same Generalitat of Catalonia, and from here it is said: "And the fault is of the others, that they do not make more investments. Each of you has to make the investments in the corresponding camp, and the reason that you present to us exactly what you say is: "One, let's devote more resources to investments – perfectly agreeable; of props, obviously – "and two, let's plan these investments, let's plan as much as possible in those great themes in which we all agree that we are afraid that we need to approach them as quickly as possible. And, Mr. Terrades, you've admitted a statement that literally says that in a six-month period this investment plan will be presented. Because the interpretation I've heard of the Junts representative for Catalonia, which is the group that supports the government and the councillor's own group, was that in six months they would start this planning, to present it two years from now, which is not what the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.196.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.197.0	...a motion that will be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.198.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers, finally, has the new word the deputy Terrades, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.199.0	To position myself on the issues... I did not ask the Aragonese Councillor for a million-dollar rain, as Mr Rajoy promised a few months ago. I trust the vice president and economic advisor, who says he will put more resources in the Generality's premise – I hope they present it – for the investments of the year he sees. I trust you. If he doesn't, I don't have any doubt that I'm going to go back to this rostrum or go down this cliff to recriminate him there. And what we've been dealing with is that the government isn't going to start doing the infrastructure manager plan, but it's going to present a plan of those things, of those infrastructures that are of its competence, huh? , who are of his competence. And these are the basis of the transaction, based on the papers that had been presented by Esquerra Republicana and Juntes for Catalonia. We have accepted a message that the commons have presented, because we do believe that the future infrastructure manager must incorporate a vision of the effects of climate change on infrastructure. We didn't accept Ciutadans's, and even though the hope of his proposal is perfectly backwards at the 1st point of our young man. Miri, and we didn't want to do, Mrs. Erra, "the shopping list, which we could have done perfectly. And we discriminate against what the State has to do..., and do not charge it with any doubt that we continue to claim the infrastructure that the State has to do in Catalonia. In fact, in the bilateral, which he did not want, the Government of Spain came with a whole series of actions to return investor efforts from the additional third. And, therefore, no doubt, I have no doubt about that. Now, what we are claiming is that the Government of the Generality is acting on what are its own competitions. And we have not defined some concrete ones: lines 9 and 10 of the metro; 1, 2, 3 and 4 also of the metro, and line 8 of Railways of the Generality of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.200.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Mrs. Sanchez, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.201.0	Vote separate points 1 and 2; there is no more...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.202.0	Exactly; more impossible, say, eh? All right. We shall vote, therefore, separately on point 1 and point 2 of this motion. Let's start the vote with point 1 of the motion. The vote begins. This point, number 1 of this motion, has been approved by 124 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote on the number two point of the motion. The vote begins. This was approved by 124 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into infrastructure and public transport]] [[302-00019/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, item 22, which is the Ministry following the Government's inquiry into infrastructure and public transport. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, to expose it has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.203.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, well, the inquiry that we presented to the Counselor of Territories and Sustainability, as the motion that we present today, basically has a clear objective, huh? : to place Catalonia as the spearhead of the fight against climate change; we also called for it to lead in the fight against climate change, to the councillor – leads that our hearing today is more in the local world than in the Generality; therefore, we want to jointly engage this leadership – and also to pass from the speeches on climate change to the facts. For us, in the fight against climate change, it is important to promote and boost public transport, and with this constructive will we present a motion that initially had proposals, which, in the end, was the result of the Ciutadans reviews, in eleven, with three objectives: the first objective, to mobilise more resources to finance public transport; the second objective, to make it more accessible and, in this case, also to improve its tariff management, and the third objective, to boost public transport infrastructure in Catalonia. As I said, the first objective is to mobilise more resources in favour of public transport. We are not naive or naive, we know of the financial difficulties that the Generalitat has and, therefore, we know that if we want more resources, in this case for public transport to Catalonia, we will look for them. What? We have already repeatedly presented them in different commissions, in this case, both to the Commission of Territories and to the Commission of Economics, the need to deploy the Law on the financing of public transport, to deploy it in its totality, and, in particular, the one referring to the fiscal measures that I include, in this case, this law. In the meantime, they ask for our consent with the social agents; we agree, we agree to discuss it, in this case, too, to seek this consent, but also the days when the time was running out, that this time has proof of the side that will be the proper assumptions of the Generality. And secondly, also tell them to surprise us – also in the papers they have presented – their refusal to put the tax on polluting cars on the 1st generation of 2019. We are surprised, because the amount of resources that can be generated, according to the same advice answered us, is practically 150_million euros in a year, and because, in this case, also the same advisor of the Generality, if I did not err, on August 15th publicly said that this tax would be out of the 1st generation of 2019, and now it seems that you have gone as far as the skulls. But in any case, we will also continue to insist on this need to seek more resources in favour of public transport. The second objective is to make public transport more accessible and to improve public transport management. Miri, here we have two... two reptes or two very clear needs. The first is that we, and know that, in this case, also the Mayor of Barcelona and the President of the Metropolitan Area, as it is well to remember in this case the Lord Terrades, has sent him a letter claiming that the Generalitat, and in this case, as President of the ATM, therefore, work to freeze – freeze – the tariffs of public transport the year 2019. He knows that we, in this case, have reached an agreement – an agreement that I believe is positive – with the government of Pedro Sánchez to approve assumptions that include an additional 40_million euros, in this case, for the ATM. You, legitimately, and we respect that, seem to block these assumptions; so what we are demanding, because our intention is to freeze public transport rates and, therefore, make it more accessible, is that you, under the assumptions of the year 2019, are not? , these measures on the table, and put, in this case, these resources on the table. We're also worried about the news, as we said, that we're getting on the T-Mobility. So far you have not given any explanation why you have delayed T-Mobility; you do not know whether it is the responsibility of the Generality or whether it is the responsibility of the enterprise. There has already been... in this case, the delays that have occurred in the inn in the wake of mobility have resulted in an increase of the project of 24_million euros, of a deviation of 41_percent of what was supposed, and we would like to know, that in giving explanations of what is the motive, in this case, of the delay, and if we have new economic consequences for the Generality in..., well, so far it has not done so... Do you also know that we have called for your appearance in the Committee of Territories to be explained to us, above all because we do not believe that it is reasonable that, in this case, for example, the citizens of Terrassa continue until the year 2021 they have zone 3, that the citizens of Manresa are zone 6, or, for example, no? , that the citizens of Terrassa pay twenty-i-set_euros for a T-10, that we believe is profoundly unfair. And the third objective that we also set is all the deployment of public transport infrastructure – it's been referred to before. Those who want to see especially also with the metropolitan area of Barcelona, also with the tram train of the Camp of Tarragona ; I think that here we can continue working together as we are doing. I think we've come to an agreement – and then I'll mention it – to try to make a summit with social workers to see if we can claim infrastructure management in this case; it's a priority for us. And also, as we claim to lead him, one of the proposals we put forward on the table is that the Generalitat, together with the Barcelona Assembly, also leads the connection of the tram to the Diagonal, which is the connection, in this case, faster, more direct and which would allow the metropolitan area to provide us with a transport infrastructure that is very important for the population, not only of Barcelona, but also for the metropolitan area. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.204.0	Thank you, Mr. Cid. To defend the papers presented, it has the word in the first place, for the Parliamentary Group of the PSC - Units per Avançar, Mr.Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.205.0	Thank you, President. From the start, I will ask for a separate vote, because I do not forget the points 3 and 5 of the motion. Why are we asking for a separate vote on these points? First, why point 3, which is to implement the tax on polluting vehicles..., that here I notice a slight variation in the positions that the commons had kept in the previous legislature, because the Climate Change Law you voted against this tax – the socialist group also, huh? – and I will explain why we cannot give support, as it is written, to this point. We believe – and believe – that, like the back of the Climate Change Law, this tax has a recapturing, not environmental, purpose. And I already announce that if the government finally presents the law of assumptions and the law of accompanying the assumption – the law of fiscal and financial measures – we will present a modification of this point because it has precisely this environmental vocation that claims the tax. They can't pay for the same vehicle that circulates a thousand kilometers for Catalan reels, that one that in circles comes or comes to five thousand, because it contaminates the contaminal that circulates..., and emits more CO2 to the atmosphere. And at these times it's possible to discriminate and weigh differently those drivers, those users who use the private vehicle in a certain way towards others, huh? Therefore, we cannot give support at this point as drafted. We intend to modify the law accompanying the presumption, hoping that the Government of Spain has already withdrawn the appeal that the Government of the People's Party filed against the Law of Climate Change, which at these times blocked the application of this tax. And then we see that between the fifth point of implementation of the T-Mobility that they propose to us, and another point that they have accepted in Ciutadans, there is a contradiction between both points. In a fix that the year you should put in practice the T-Mobility and in the other it is more diffuse your inn in march. Therefore, as we see that there is this contradiction we will also abstain at this point. And respect the T-Mobility, look, what's unheard of is that we're well new years late respect the implementation of the T-Mobility, and that with the announcements that Councilman Calvet made to us now, fifteen days ago, roughly, we're back, huh? , at the T-Mobility Margin inn on 2021. The government that you don't like to remember, that of..., the government of..., Catalanista and d'entesa, d'esquerres, huh? , put them on top of it, the T-Mobility app. What happens is that you changed the criteria, and a T-Mobility that was public management, you turned it into something else. And we don't know what happened yet. Well, yes, we know that the other cities of Espanya – Miri, Zaragoza, Madrid – are posing..., they have already put similar or digital systems on the market, respect what you wanted to implement. And we have learned, astonishment, that the implementation costs of T-Mobility have multiplied; as at least it will cost us twice as much as you predicted. I think it would be advisable, Counselor, that instead of asking for the rest of the parliamentary groups to appear in your Parliament to explain what is going on with T-Mobility, you ask and ask for your appearance to explain what is going on with T-Mobility. Because we believe that this could be a very useful tool for public transport, for the users who use public transport, to reorganize tariff crowns in a more efficient way, and I think that the counselor needs to appear to explain in what situation T-Mobility is, to what are these delays of more than two years, this increase in costs we have learned for the country's communication media.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.206.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Next, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr. Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.207.0	Good afternoon. Counselors, MPs, MPs, in any case, Mr. Cid raises a motion to which we have been right to address, understand that we can make some contributions to it, some better to the text initially presented, and, in any case, we already want to express Mr. Cid's appreciation and willingness to accept some of the points that we have presented and, therefore, let us say it, with the will to improve an issue that concerns us all, and in which we believe it is basic that..., the establishment of great consensus. We are talking about some laws, an environment that affects climate change and that, as a matter of fact, clearly affects the salvation of our citizens and, therefore, from this point of view, it is important to reach these consensuses. Mr Cid proposed to us some first elements of the Public Transport Finance Act, which was approved, I insist, with great..., with a broad consensus, in this parliamentary chamber and, therefore, from this point of view we understand that yes, I can support it. We have wanted to make some points, that from the technical point of view we appreciate that it has been accepted, in the sense that to make the correct deployment of these laws as some modifications or as some processing in this parliamentary chamber, and therefore from this point of view we believe that we should go there. What we're up to... and we think that some of the tax measures that the Public Transport Act has put in place to address them with an amplification. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. With an extensive analysis, because it's obvious that we can..., taking into account other mechanisms and laws, we could be affecting the same areas, but in any case we think we can address it. Planting you – and here we have not been able to reach an agreement – in the area of the tax on polluting vehicles, you..., here are two elements that concern us: a first element of clear temporality. You're asking us to tell the first generation that there's this inn on the way. It is impossible, as you will understand, for parliamentary processing to be necessary. And then, another element, of concept, to which we have already presented an issue that has not been accepted, in the sense that you proposed that this foundation foretells the Climate Change Law was intended for the financing of public transport. We believe that there are other ways of financing public transport, but that, in any case, there is one part, let's say, of this tax that can be allocated to what it affects in the field of gas reduction..., of the emission of gases from the winter effect. And, therefore, from this point of view we can only share a part, let's say, of this background, but this is on the line that we raised and that you did not accept. For what it raised, on the subject of the allocation of the resources of the presuppositions of 2019, for the freezing of the tariffs, we also knew in the sense of raising it that this agreement is taken in the field of the ATM, that all the administrations consortia take the compromise before everyone and, let's say, have these resources, and from here we can do it. We think it's the best way. Anyway, we're planting what it's got to be, what way we can find it, because that's the will. And in the field of T-Mobility, which we too have raised a question – and I also insist on the field that we have raised, of doing a realism exercise – we can make self-criticism, eh? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And we accept the self-criticism that the deployment has been slowing down, or has been different in time, but in any case, what we had proposed was..., we did this exercise of realism. As you will understand, it is impossible that everything is possible to deploy 2019 and, in any case, what we gave it was: « Listen, let's begin to deploy the technological scope of this 2019 and the scope of application, let's say, of what would be the elimination of tariff zones, in which we are fully in agreement, from 2021 onwards. Let us think, as Mr Terrades pointed out, that with the thought that after they have accepted us..., we believe that this is dull and, therefore, let us say it, we also appreciate that we are on this line of work and consensus. For what it does to the issue of the valuation of incompliments and to apply sanctions if that is the case, and that it can reach the termination of the contract, fully agree. And, therefore, from this point of view we have also been able to get to this element of..., to this transaction. We think we need to do a transparency exercise. The element, let's say, of transparency in the management of public resources is necessary and, therefore, from this point of view, we would agree. For what you're doing on infrastructure planning, we appreciate it too... in this sense we've raised why we think we do, huh? – and we agree on the list, also incorporating the theme of Camp Tarragona –, which are some lines that are priorities, some actions in the field of public transport that are priorities, but that this must take into account clear resource planning, especially. And, as you recognized in your intervention, at present, the economic difficulty is there, even though we are not out, but in any case, we believe that with good planning from the master board and a board, let's say, of necessary and realistic investments, we can get to these points. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] In any case, and finally, to end, to thank him, I insist, the predisposition he has had. In the other cases we have also been able to get to some item, to some transaction in these items, and, therefore, we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.208.0	Thank you, Mr. Bloods. Next, also, to defend the papers presented, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr. Antoni Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.209.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counselor, advisors, deputies, deputies, can't make us see that we live in a normal situation. There have been reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State claims more than two hundred years in prison. That is why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the case and the release of reprisals. We won't give up. Well, the young lady who takes care of us, in fact, I would say that with so little letter but a lot of ambition. Actually, she's a young woman who has a lot of ambition in her content, ambition that we honestly share politically, huh? But we have presented a whole series of items, of which we also appreciate the fact that some of them have been traded. There has been a willingness for dialogue, negotiation and agreement, let's say both for the proposed group as well as for the Citizens and Socialists Group, but there are some who have remained, let's say, that they have not been accepted, and I will explain a little the position of our group. The will I express here, on behalf of my group, that the content of this young man's ambitions is shared... but management is coughing, many times. And the content of our papers... they're basically argued with two arguments. A first, therefore, of temporal character. That's to say, to make agreements, so, time... Management has its logical and its norms, and political will often can't fight them. And, in this sense, there are ambitious force proposals that can be adjusted in the areas of management. And the other reviews are based on respect for the institutions. That is to say, the theme of mobility is a theme that is on the horse, too, of many institutions: the ATM, the Barcelona Assembly, the same joints and the Department of Territories and Sustainability. Therefore, for points 1 and 2, which have been traded, we will vote in favour. Point number 3, which makes reference, therefore, to setting the date of the '1 gener for the tax of polluting vehicles, seems to us to be a date that goes a long way and makes it impossible to apply this tax for this date. And, at times, the finalist fate that we think should have this tax has not been brought to the House, that we think should be for contaminating gases, for prevention, for reduction, for themes that specifically refer to climate change. The next point, providing sufficient economic resources for 2019 to freeze public transport charges, is a collective decision. The different administrations competent in this matter, it is not only the department, but also the assembly and the authority of the Metropolity Transport. And there's a certain willingness to lead, but... this shared leadership that you claim, so, there is, because there's a shared willingness to lead there must also have shared loyalty, and then, in this sense, all the willingness to be able to take it in a table and see the free willingness to actually freeze public transport rates for this year. There is the question of the Trambesòs and Trambaix, which makes very specific reference to the Barcelona Assembly. To us it seems... we are totally in favour of connecting the trams – totally in favour – but an agreement that could not be agreed in the same city, when it is a competition and an infrastructure that affects, in a very important way, the city of Barcelona, seems to us to be a little bit of a leeway for the Parliament of Catalonia to reach an agreement by positioning itself, without seeking what should be a consensus agreement. In this sense, all the willingness, in part, to favor what this agreement is, in the first place, to make this connection viable and its concrete outline. Also for the calendar that is made in reference to all the infrastructures, the central tram of line 9, the line 1 of Badalona, Slugges of Llobregat, the Camp of Tarragona [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , this plan must also be very present, which is not only the timetables, but also the economic availability in order to be able to cope with such important and structural infrastructures for the country. I, in this sense,...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.210.0	You're out of your mind, Mr. Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.211.0	I'm done. In this sense, it is always a reflection to say: "In case we were a state, probably many of these...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.212.0	Time's up, Mr. Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.213.0	...the demand for economic resources and skills would be easier to address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.214.0	Thank you, Mr. Morral. Next, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word "Mrs. Marina Bravo".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.215.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, we are going to support this motion. He talks about old acquaintances, about the T-Mobilitat, who goes from counselor to counselor and everyone says they're going to put her in service. Here we have Santi Vila, who was speaking in 2016, talking about deploying the Law of Financing Public Transport, which is of the tenth legislature, speaks of line 9, old known... This counselor is from when I finished the race. And he also talks about the tram train, from Tarragona, which, Mr. Counsellor, would we have much less problems if it were already bid? In Salou, in Cambrils... In short, he talks about many works, very necessary, but we would have to have them already. And if those who have or have had responsibility for them would have devoted themselves to them or paid half the attention they devote to other fantasies, they would certainly, if not finished, be much more advanced. And it would also be good if the proposing group could remember that. Because every time he does separatism crutches, every time he throws a float at them, all he gets is to allow this process, exhausted and exhausting, that doesn't take us anywhere, and that all he allows is that we can't work on these things. Because the process has been carrying everything: it has divided society; it has degraded our institutions, until we have had to become ashamed, I believe that all of us, and it has put a huge slab above all else, which slows us down and does not let us move forward. Mr Cid, it stops us and does not let us move forward, neither in this, nor in the public transport, which seems to matter to you, as to me, because you know that of thinking heads in Catalonia, many paid with public money, that, instead of thinking, for example, on that tram train, how we gave it a solution, they were thinking, making plans and projects on what path of the state we stayed first, if the one of Mataró, if the one of Vic? Yes, but they have a plan, a project, which they have even come to present to us here at parliamentary headquarters, instead of thinking about the tram train. Or in making reports full of lies to convince when they had no reason for them? Or do propaganda, also full of lies – that if I then have time to detail them, that I don't think it's going to give me – for the same purpose? And all of this justifies it – again we have had to hear it again here – in which, of course, they actually go this way and do all of this because the solution to all of our problems is that the Government of the Generalitat manages everything. Do you know how many times we've had to hear it? Do you know how tired they are, how often we have had to hear that the solution to all our problems, to the problems of all Catalans, is that the Government of the Generalitat manages everything? Well, do you know what's going on? That the evidence proves absolutely everything, everything, quite the opposite. And this motion is an example of that. There is not a single autonomous community that has had a disaster like that of the 9_de_metro line: 4,000_million overcosts already, today– those are undeniable–; 4,000_millions with which could be made, by the way, twenty or thirty trams like these that appear at the other point of the motion, that sometimes we lose orders of magnitude. Or the T-Mobilitat, which already carries 50_per_cent overcost. No autonomous community has been so hard to change its pricing management system. Or many others that do not appear in this motion. There is no autonomous community that has been spent 200_million in an occurrence like that of Spanair or that has a problem on it like that we have of ATLL, which already go for more than 800_million. That's also a lot of trams we talked about before. We will support this motion, yes, but I assure you, Mr. Cid, that you are out there, and company, that the best thing you can do for public transport is to stop being a floater of this process, that the only thing you already do is water, that you don't take us anywhere, that we've already checked, and what you could do is help us move on so that we can start a new political stage in which we can work seriously on all this, and in which the advisors and all the departments of this government – which we sometimes think only of the president, but it's the same thing – focus all their efforts, all their attention and all their interest in solving the problems we really have. And as I see that I do have a few seconds left, for I say to him: when I speak of lies I do not speak to speak. We've seen a whole story on TV3 just now that it was full of lies. And these ads, which are paid for with money from all of us, then, talk about topics I've worked on before. Well, I read them to you, don't worry: « 1,597 incidents linked to the infrastructure between 2012 and 2016. That's what I've been working with every day, and it sounded a little weird to me. So we asked him for the figure in question. How many incidents – exactly the same data, from 2012 to 2016 – linked to infrastructure? They have not even bothered to realize that they have already published it in the press: there are 836, half of those that publish. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.216.0	Thank you, Mrs. Bravo. Next, to fix its position, it has the word, for the Parliamentary Subgroup CUP - Constituent Creed, the lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.217.0	Okay. In the presentation of the motion are raised some objectives on the different points. In one band, generate major tickets. In fact, he said that he surprised them that they did not support themselves, but to us he surprised us that he had precisely traded the point number 2, where in a very clear way it was a point where the tickets were increased for precisely dedicated to public transport. And they did what they did before they did: to urge, to study, to do... well, not much. An objective_second, which says: « Make public transport more accessible to everyone. Okay. In this sense, we consider that what is needed is not to freeze tariffs, what is needed is the freeness of public transport, for the popular classes, to have universal access to public transport. And if this is to be done, obviously, with a transition to gratuitousness, prioritizing those people with more precariousness, those people who are up to date, young people, women, who are the main users of public transport, then let us plan it from this perspective. But freezing public transport rates at the gates of elections, well, maybe it's not just Mr. Albiol who's in the election campaign. On the other hand, we say, about the T-Mobility, which is also spoken of, it has been said that we are going from councillor to councillor. But do you know what never changes? Companies that benefit from the privatization of the mobility target. And, besides, we consider that this outsourcing, this privatization that they invented, and on which they could not do anything to eliminate it, so, almost, to say it in some way, almost immoral. We believe that, given the shortcomings and delays, we can fully assume the management of T-Mobility and remove private enterprises, such as the Box or Indra and return to public management of this target, not to study whether the failures will make us see that... Here are some public enterprises that benefit from the target in order to be able to access public transport. Finally, we understand that we have just talked about two motions related to infrastructure, public transport, which are exclusively focused on the metropolitan areas of the country. I think we've got some unfinished business, and we've committed ourselves to putting our eyes on the rest of the country as well. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , because in the Jews, in the Pyrenees and the districts that are not close to metropolitan areas have obvious public transport deficiencies. Finally, about how tired we are...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.218.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.219.0	...saying that if we manage public resources we'll be much better off. You're obvious. We who want to change are the ones who have managed so far, manage it directly. And that doesn't mean we're not still effective, because if there are private companies that are doing it better than public managers, it's that public managers are doing it badly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.220.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.221.0	Thank you, President. From the point of view, to say summarily that to all those points that make reference to the promotion of public transport we will give support to it; to all those that make reference to more taxes, we will give no support, and to more we have to say that we are convinced that the solution to the climate change does not pass to collect more taxes. And in this sense point out, in relation to three of the points, the feeling of the vote. First of all, a vote in favour of the proposal to freeze tariffs on public transport, following the same proposals of the Barcelona City Council and the Barcelona Metropolitan Area, as in the least freeze..., in this way is to compensate for the strong increases that have occurred in the last years – years that were not electoral – of these tariffs. Secondly, we will vote against, also in the same line that the municipal group does to the Barcelona Assembly, from the junction of the tram for the Diagonal. And thirdly, we'll abstain at a point where we see how we're suspected, because, if what we want is to negotiate the transfer at the time you enter the Vandellòs-Tarragona double line and we want to negotiate the transfer with the Government of the State to the Generality so that we can end up with a tram in that area, I don't know if what we do best is a summit. In any case, what we should do is that the Generalitat, therefore, is meeting with the heads of the ministry to carry them out this will. And, therefore, as this summit is an absolutely indeterminate concept, we prefer to abstain. Therefore, President, we would ask you to vote separately on points 2, 3 and 9, on one side, and on point 10, on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.222.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Now, to position himself on the acceptance or not of the papers, has the word again Mr David Cid's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.223.0	Well, first of all, thank the predisposition of all the groups, not only those who have made papers, but also those with whom we were able to talk. I would like to thank Mrs Bravo for telling me that she is going to kick the crutch of separatism; she had told me a lot of things, but this, until now, no; but, well, I appreciate it. [[The timer laughs.]] In any case, four quick considerations. The first is: I told you, that's to say, it's very easy to talk about climate change, but when we start implementing climate change measures, problems start. And, obviously, the taxes, Mr Terrades – you refer to them in your comments – must have a deterrent; but we are not naive: if we are asking the Generality to put in more resources for public transport and we all agree that the Generality has economic difficulties, we must implement measures to generate more resources. Secondly, on the subject of tariff freezing, they can do all the fireworks they want, but the president, in this case, of the ATM Management Board is the same as the Territorial and Sustainability Advisor. And, therefore, we are transferring it... That is, we have made an effort to reach an agreement to freeze the rates of Barcelona's Metropolitan Area. If you – or in this case the ATM – in this case want to block the assumptions, then, in any case, explain if we drag the resources. But the demand is there. I believe it will be a demand not only for the president of the Metropolitan Area and the mayor of Barcelona, but also for the Parliament of Catalonia. He asks us for a principle of realism with the calendar. I already agree with what you are doing, but the dates have been set for you. I know it's hard, Counselor, but you've just disapproved. You said, on August 15th, that the tax on polluting cars would come into effect on the 1st generation of 2019, and today the groups that support it have said that this is impossible. You were wondering about the calendar because you didn't do the job. And it's the same thing that happens with T-Mobility. So, that the T-Mobility year 2019 was to come into force is his thing; if they go, you say the date! Therefore, I understand that it costs to make self-criticism sometimes, you say, but the dates we have set ourselves have not been invented by us, are the dates that you have donated. I, on the Diagonal tram, am very grateful to me for seeking consensus at the municipal level. When you make reels like the Quart Belt or the C-32 to Blanes, you are able to pass over the joints to make them. Now, for the Diagonal tram, this Parliament of Catalonia cannot pronounce. It seems to me that you, I'm telling you, are in a hurry to make rollers and are very slow to make public transport infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.224.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. If I'm not mistaken, separate votes have been requested from points 3 and 5, together, and 2... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, because it does not coincide with the request made by Mr. Rodriguez, which was 2 and 5, on one side; 9 and 10, on the other. So we'd do two for one... [[Several Members are asking to speak.]] Are there more requests for separate voting? [[Pause.]] We'll vote separately on all points, and that's it. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.225.0	To request the reading of agreement number 9, please, before the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.226.0	All right, let's read the number nine point before the vote. In any case, we vote first for the rest of the points, and finally we will vote for point number 9. Therefore, we will finally vote separately on all points of the motion. Let's start the vote. We vote point number 1 of the motion – point number 1. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. This was approved by 119 votes to seven, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the number three point of the motion. The vote begins. This item has been approved [[from "No]] ... was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 63 against and 51 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. This was approved by 62 votes to 60, with 4 abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 45 votes to 65, with 17 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. This was approved by 123 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number seven. The vote begins. This point was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions, that is, unanimously. Let's go now and vote point number eight. The vote begins. This was approved by 123 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. Let us now proceed to vote point 10, because on the 9th we will vote at last, which is what was asked to be read. Therefore, we vote on point 10. The vote begins. This was approved by 124 votes to three. Now, let's vote point 9, and we'll read it before we do. Secretary Pérez will read the point. Secretaries, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.227.0	Point 9: "To drive together with the Barcelona Assembly the definitive union of the Trambesòs with the Trambaix through the Diagonal, with the search for the necessary consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.228.0	Let's go to the vote at this point, point number 9. The vote begins. This was approved by 90 votes to three, with 34 abstentions. [[Greetings. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] And finally, forgive me, yes, there's one point left, which is the one point. Let's vote on it, and then we'll be right back from this young man. The vote begins. This point was approved by 122 votes to four, with no abstentions. And there are no more points... [[Albert Batet i Canadell asks to speak.]] Yeah? Say'm, Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.229.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ... Mr. President. Because it is stated in the Minutes, Mr President, that we would like to express and fill in the exceptional situation in which this Parliament finds itself, which is concrete in which judicial decisions have led to the suspension of the rights of a few Members, which directly affect the results of the votes, as happened at point 4 of this vote, a situation which demonstrates the abnormality that this Parliament has seen and that we cannot fail to repeat and manifest.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.230.0	All right. Thank you, Mr. Batet. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into equal opportunities in educational time]] [[302-000018/12]] We continue with the next item on the order of the day, which is the twenty-first point; it is the motion following the question to the Government about equal opportunities in educational time. Motion presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, to expose it has the words of Mrs Esther Niubó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.231.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillors. This week we started it with an important act of the Jaume Bofill Foundation in which Professor Francesc Pedró, who is director of educational policies of UNESCO, defined the education system in Catalonia as mediocre and unfair. And when he detailed what were the main brakes for the better education success in our home, obviously he was talking about inequalities, he was talking about segregation, because, so long as an education system can be considered good in its conjunction – and that's not what I'm saying, that's what the OECD says – he has to address the lower returns; he has to go on, therefore, to improve the results of the worse. And this is the number one mission of a system that is not just equity, but an efficient system. Well, we've read a lot of experts, experts in educational policies, talking about the inequalities that exist in the educational sphere, in the lectiu, and that's what we often talk about, but also in the non-lectiu, in the non-adjusted; so, in the outside school, in access to extra-school activities, to colonies, to education or, in general, to middle-school space. Today, we know that the thirds of educational inequalities are generated outside the school. We know that there are six thousand hours of learning difference between those 12-year-olds who have access or have had access to opportunities and those who have not. Differences that will eventually influence and weigh heavily on the personal, educational, relational or labor paths of the future, and we also know, for the Bofill Foundation, that participating in extracurricular activities equals a gain of two months more on the average academic progress of the student for each course. Therefore, we know of the very high correlation between educational success and participation in these activities. Well, if that's the case, what do we do with all those children and adolescents who, because of lack of resources from their families, because of their specific educational needs, are excluded from these opportunities, from these activities? We think that the Government, like other administrations, has to address the inequalities that exist in the educational sphere from a full-time education vision, much more than the lectural timetable, and even more so, beyond what goes on at the educational centre. And that's why we understand that two things are going down. First, recognizance. It must be recognized that this is actually to be done, that since the Government of the Generality has to face this challenge, and, therefore, to understand that, since the Government of the Generality, without being the only Administration responsible, it can not be the only one that goes so far. And, therefore, work to reduce the educational and social gap that exists in this non-lectual sphere. And the second thing I'm saying, and that's obvious, it's a public reversal. In other words, allocating more resources to it, it means focusing on measures to promote and promote access to the right to participation of the student and to non-exclusion for economic, social, territorial or capacity reasons. And with this young man we want to put a first stone in this two-way direction: recognition and resources. Public investment. Therefore, we are aware that we are at the kindergartens, that until today the Department of Education, as such, has done nothing or done very little in this area, but we know the existing evidence, very worrying, that the disagreements that are taking place in this area, and therefore we ask them to do so. Ours doesn't want to be a self-opposed opposition movement, it wants to be an almost impulse movement to the government. And that's why we urge them to deploy the right to access education in equal opportunities, according to which they set the same LEC. We urge them to promote equal opportunities access. And this means enabling the resources needed in the next fiscal year to increase aid, to increase scholarships, to improve exemptions for children with more economic difficulties, because we cannot allow infants and young people to be excluded from exits, from colonies, because of the vulnerability in which they see their families. What's the most unequal player if it's not that? And, therefore, this effort, already, as I said, we understand that it should not be excluded from the Government of the Generality, but that it should be approached jointly with other administrations. But we also ask you not to stay on the sidelines. On the other hand, we ask them to ensure, once and for all, you serve inclusive, all of you. All the educational services must be included: the fooder, the middle space, the lleure, the exits, the gathering services... And this means having the necessary qualified educational staff, with the establishment, also, of specific utilities; that no child, as is now the case, is more excluded from these opportunities. On the subject of fooders, we simply ask them to compliment what we have approved recently: to recover the fooder's service to secondary school. To the institutes, which restore an essential service that Constable Rigau has decided to escape to the detriment of the salvation of the youngest, and which, therefore, also recovers the aid linked to this service. And finally, and I said in the interview, we have professionals doing educational functions in the non-lectual field, which is not that they cover less than the teachers, who do, are that they have worse working conditions than the cleaning staff of the educational centres. Professionals we ask to attend to the student with specific educational needs, to do so in English, and, therefore, we ask them, please, through this young man, to work to solve the precariousness with which they live. Therefore, we ask all of you to support this young man. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.232.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, and to position herself on the papers presented, she has the word, first, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs. Sonia Sierra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.233.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Members, Members, Councillors... First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Niubó for the presentation of this young man, because it is a very important topic and we do not talk about it very often, which is the bretxa that is produced between the students with the time to read. And this young man is also talking about a very important issue, which we have already brought to this Parliament in the previous legislature, and it is that it cannot be that the secondary schools do not have a school teacher and that the children end up eating in a social worker. These images can never be repeated again. It's just thinking about this scene... it's the soul breaking. On the other hand, in the advisor's response to the inquiry, he said that they were working to look for staff so that they could take care of the autistic students and that they could stay to dinar the fooder. And the truth is that I was very surprised by this statement, because three years ago City was the first group to bring this problem to Parliament, and what was the answer to the Committee on Education? Well, first of all, the usual rudeness, that every time I take the word, everyone starts talking. But after that, I was told that she was lied to, that from the very beginning, that obviously children with autism can stay at school meals, although I know children with names and surnames, that I won't say because they are minors, that they can't stay. And they accused me of saying lies. Counselor, welcome to the solution; so good the trobin soon, but so good, above all, had begun three years ago. In accounts of saying lie to this Member and acknowledge that the problem exists, as well as three years ago he started looking for the solution, because he would have been very patient with these families. Too many problems have children with autism and their families because the Generality, in accounts of supporting them, the most interbank positions. Because you have a lot of humanity... for which they care. Because with deaf children and autistic children, humanity, humanity... I don't see them very well, the truth. Maybe they start looking at me... 'cause it's a little bit of advice I sell that I don't have. Or, tell me what you presume and I'll tell you what you lack. Because, I insist, I'd like to see this humanity of which they all assume, both with autistic children and deaf children. We have tabled a motion calling for the deletion of paragraph 2.1 of the organizational document and the management of the centres. This apartment is the one that talks about the linguistic issue at the centers. And here it is very clear that this government is the government of the Koiné manifesto, because what you say this apartment is that everything, and when everything, absolutely everything, has to be in catalá: the teacher, the extracurricular activities, the communication between the student and the teacher... [[Widow's remorse.]] I'd ask you for a little respect when I speak. I don't think you're that hard, huh? And we could end it all up. Okay. So, I insist, this point clearly demonstrates that this is the government of the Koiné manifesto. I'll give you an example. You can communicate with families with a foreign language, but you can't communicate with families in Spanish. I mean, I manifest Koiné in pure state. Let us see that we are multilingual to hide that it is not allowed to serve Spanish to Catalan schools. And the truth is, it's not strange that this is the government of the Koiné manifesto, because here we have the supremacist councilwoman who defends this manifesto. In the accounts of apologizing for signing it..., because, look, everyone is wrong; in the accounts of apologizing, every time he goes to us he tells us that we have to read this manifesto, because as a supremacist, he only contemplates two options: either we have read it, or we have read it, but as we are a little courtesy, that we are from City, we have not understood it. So, miri, ma'am will advise, and as long as we've understood! And we also heard it perfectly when he said that this Koiné manifesto will pose him as practicing at the National Reading Plate. A manifesto that says that the people who come from the rest of Spain are involuntary instruments of linguistic colonization, and I fully understand the subject, the verb and the complement, and I say it: subject, verb and complement. She's a supremacist, and I've made myself clear. We read the article and that's why we can say it. [[Greetings.]] The truth is, we didn't get any luck with the puzzle, they didn't accept it. Normal. "Sanchism looks at another band when they abuse school like this or others. For example, to Minister Celaá it seems perfect that the president of the School Board is an accused of disobedience, but we will also give support to this young man, because, I insist, it deals with a very important issue, and a topic that affects especially students of the public school. And we defended public school, Mr. Counselor. ( Sound the acoustic signal indicating that the speaking time has run out.) If I've always studied and worked in public school, and since I've always worked in public school, I've suffered...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.234.0	Mrs. Sierra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.235.0	Yeah, I'm done now. I've suffered...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.236.0	Yeah, so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.237.0	Yeah, I've been through the Republican Left and Convergence government, and I've been cold in the classroom. So let's learn to defend the public school, not one. If you want to defend the public school, return the foreign payments...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.238.0	Mrs. Sierra, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.239.0	...and no, you're not credible. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.240.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Najat Driuech has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.241.0	Okay. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, counselors, deputies, deputies... the people who accompany us to the hemisphere and to the entire educational community of the country. Today we are talking about the Catalan school, the open school. Our goal is to modernise it and update it to the 21st century. The Catalan school is one of the largest trisors our society has. A school that's been and is one of the key to the social adventure. A school that ages for social cohesion, for the integration of the student in the education center and that bets for the school success always placing the student in the center. A strong Catalan school with a committed educational community, to which we want to accompany in its educational task that must go beyond the walls of the classroom. Thanks, Socialists' companies - Units for Moving Forward. We share your concerns about our school and its surroundings, especially its readership, which we consider essential. It's a learning space, accessible to all students. You have to have professionals with the training and working conditions you need to complete with your pocket. We have presented realistic reviews. They've only accepted one point. We share the intent of the young man. We are aware that achieving this vision is a complex task and that the Department of Education and the Government is pushing for it. But we insist on the co-responsibility of other administrations and the resources needed to carry it out. We fully share the need to reduce existing educational and social barriers. In fact, the 2018-2019 course drives three new educational plans around 2.0 that focus on the importance of the educational network and aim to ensure access to educational activities for all students in equal opportunities. After seven evaluations, it has been shown that education plans are an effective tool to reduce inequality in participation in out-of-school student activities. We are deploying the right to access education, and we work to ensure the right to student participation and their non-exclusive participation in extra-school activities, with the collaboration of municipalities and entities, for a single purpose, to ensure that children with more economic difficulties have equal access to education. They've accepted us. Since 2014, the Directorate General of Youth has been promoting an economic aid programme that benefits more than eight thousand children and adolescents. Can they be more ambitious? Yeah. But we're gonna have to make a presupposition. One of the challenges facing the Generality with full conviction is that all students, regardless of their educational needs, have equal access to the educational system, both lectual and non-lectual, and work to implement the decree of inclusive school. But let us not deceive ourselves: here there is no problem of willing to do it well, it has an important cost. We share the purpose of the youth to convert the time of the school fooder into educational spaces, and so much! We are planning, for example, the debate on hourly reform. For this reason, the removal of the new householder decree has as its main objective to place the householder as an educational space with the maximum guarantees, and to guarantee the access of all students in the layouts of the new definition of tram rides, incorporating a category of 80_per_cent. Despite all this, we will vote in favour of all points, except for point 4. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, his only objective is to try to see a non-existent conflict, feeding the report of hatred and division through the school, in concrete terms, the use of language in our educational centers. How sad that they are unable to debate seriously about education in Catalonia. Mrs. Sierra, today, I wouldn't have had a chance to be here. I am here thanks, in part, to the Catalan school, to the gathering that made me Montse, the third of the first, when I arrived, to the involvement of Andreu in my best linguistic competitions at secondary level, and to the constant ownership of the Lluïsa, batsillerat. Thank you to all the teachers; each and every one of you have been part...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.242.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.243.0	...the construction of the person I know today. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.244.0	Why ask me the word, Mrs. Sierra?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.245.0	President, for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.246.0	At the end of the interventions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.247.0	Oh, well, like they were in half yesterday... okay. [[Rialles.]] But in the end, he's gonna give it to me, right? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.248.0	Keep going. There is the word, on behalf of Grupo Parlamentari Junts per Catalunya, Mr Xavier Quinquillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.249.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, advisors, deputies, deputies, we appreciate the motion in its conjunction for which it supposes to place in an area of importance within which the whole of the school, the whole education, this non-lectual educational spirit, as Mrs Niubó has explained, supposes, first of all, to initiate a necessary recognition of this educational character of activities of reading, extra-schoolers of their own serving as beggar, and their connection with the education system, understand, as she has said, that it is a tool of cohesion and integral development. And, in this sense, we share that it is necessary to develop an orderly framework for complementary activities in its conjunction, that it is incardinating between the first school in its conjunction, also forming part of the center education project, which guarantees quality, but also ensuring the right to its access. And, in this sense, we share that there is a fundamental issue that resources are: they are more resourceful, we share it, and, in this sense, we also share this responsibility with other agents, especially in the local area, which guarantees this access, but we do say that we will abstain at point 4, because, precisely, this responsibility that we share cannot be assumed at these times for obvious reasons, because it presupposes a presuppositionary compromise that we cannot acquire. In any case, I would like to highlight the constructive will of the Movement to continue to improve our educational system, a tool of country which is the result of a broad social consensus, a consensus which is also expressed here today in this Parliament, and which I would like to thank to all the parliamentary groups that the possible fan, also to the group proposing, with whom, despite profound differences, we are also ready to give up short-flight partisanship in order to reserve, in this case, a basic pillar of cohesion and progress as is the Catalan model of school. And I say this in contrast to the irresponsibility and demagogy of those who make the permanent and partyist flag – starting now with the proposed slogan – barging people and apples, with these absolutely infumable macedonias which you have so accustomed to, making war of languages, raising suspicions, yesterday accusing the body of inspectors a few more political commissioners, constantly questioning the system and professionalism of the teachers, and, once more – and once more – failing to respect a councillor. He did it, in addition, with a flag, with a flag of equality that we do not share; equality, as a synonym of homogeneity, uniformity, because it is here, effectively, where you feel comfortable, in equality and uniformity: a birth, a hymn, a flag, a language. Equality is understood just as contrary to diversity; a concept of equality with which they claim to justify repression, imprisonment and exile against those who think differently. You are for equality, we are for equity, which means guaranteeing opportunities for everyone, accepting diversity not as a problem but as an opportunity for personal and collective growth, because we are a diverse space, we are a diverse country, and because we want a plural school, open to the world, intercultural, multilingual; a space of freedom that develops critical thinking, talent, and that is generating opportunities for everyone; a space of cohesion and consensus, a consensus in which we find ourselves here again claiming and putting into value, in this case, the unreadable educational space as an important part of our model of education, of our school, I insist, of our school, the school of all and all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.250.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of the Lady Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.251.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, good afternoon, and thank Mrs. Niubó for this young lady's presentation. The activities of the latter are not, and cannot be, an option; they are an essential part of education, of all our childhood; and they cannot depend on economic, territorial, social or cultural reasons; the fact that the children are able to agree if we really want to be a society that moves forward in the fight against social exclusion so that it follows a priority. But the reality is that the children of high-class families participate a 30_per_cent more in sports, art and academic activities, and, in parallel, we have the reverse, 50_per_cent of the lower-class infants spend two hours and mediate more each day before television or playing video games, according to the Bofill Foundation. And that has an impact that's direct and negative on school income. In fact, we know that the income level of families, the socioeconomic level is the factor that most conditions success or lack of education and participation in complementary activities is not one of the reasons. Now no one questions, in fact, is a consensus in the educational community and the experts, the importance that educational time has, not just school time, all the time education, to ensure fairness. But, also, there is a lack of time guarantee for families with lower economic levels. For this reason, as a compromise decided in the fight against educational segregation, and this cannot only be pulled forward from school, nor can it be pulled forward from one of all administrations, it must be done together with all administrations. Accessing colonies, complementary activities, couples, excursions, school meals are an essential element for equal opportunities. Also, there are also the educational plans around, that have already been named, that during the worst years of the crisis and of the retail, they were deeply minuted. The motion before us speaks of aspects that are already approved or established. It talks about the law's deployment, it talks about empowering resources, giving help and bonuses, and, more importantly, it backs up, to a good extent, the recommendations that the Greuges Synod has made to its reports against educational segregation; things that the Government should already be completing, such as recognizing the value and educational character of the activities of students or the service of a school worker. But, even so, it's necessary, and that's why we're grateful to Mrs. Niubo for bringing it back, to see if this time it's not just fears that we approve but also fears that we finish up and moving forward. And I'd just like to make a couple of observations going into the actual point of the motion. For what it does to the point of the school teacher to secondary school, just remember that at the control session of only fifteen days ago, to a question from my parliamentary group, the councillor was committed to ensuring that school teachers at the lower secondary schools of the most disadvantaged groups, with the compromise and with the aim of extending them to the rest of the centres progressively; let us hope that this will continue. And for what it does to the conditions of the professionals of the sector of the lleure, not only do we worry about the struggle against precariousness but also the formation, and, in this sense, we defend and demand that a line of specific formation is required that is compromised, that it agrees with the schools of formation in education in lleure to specialize the personnel that work to the teacher and at midday time. And already to close and as a conclusion, we have already seen that it is not just a game but that it is also an essential tool in the formation and personal growth of children and children for their abilities, habits, abilities and values, and, for this reason, it is not only an essential tool for childhood, it is also for us as a society for its function as a tool of social cohesion and equal opportunity. And for all this, we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.252.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.253.0	Thank you, President. From the escho, just to say that we will give support to the young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.254.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.255.0	We will support the motion with the sole exception of point 3 on concerted school, because we believe that private initiative should be left to regulate, as it sees fit, this issue. And, to make a point since we talked about school and the importance of the development of students at that educational stage, ask the counselor that, since you know how you answered me in the written questions that you have returned to me this week, tell him that in public school can not be a place for independence sufflamas and please do not disagree and ask that there be no yellow ties in Catalan public schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.256.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, in order to position herself on the acceptance or not of the papers, has the new word the MP Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.257.0	Thank you, President. Thanks, in general, to all groups for supporting this young man. To say also, in order to position myself on the issues, we have not accepted all those who implied a reduction in the content of the compromise, above all, in the form of parties, help, exceptions, which seems to us to be all that is essential to promote and facilitate precisely this access to the activities of the latter; nor others who are lowering objectives that have recently been approved and that we would therefore like to be able to approve again today. It seems to us that the government should be able, as set out in point 1, to have a platoon – a platoon – to fight education in this area at the end of this course. With regard to Ciutadans's emena, you know perfectly well... we can't accept it. It seemed to us that it involved sweeping here a question that has nothing to do with equal opportunities in this area. And he does know a little hard that, as we say at first, doesn't he? , this wants to be a first stone that is based on two axes: the recognition and the resources, that the groups that support the government so do not vote the point that, precisely, refers to the public investment. They know perfectly well that without this, the compromise that we are talking about is either very minute or very minute. And finally, just to say that, for example, Marta Mata did not like to talk about "Catalan school", Marta Mata spoke about "Communal school", and I say this because many times all those who talk about mass Catalan school are the ones who have eroded it with their most detailed details. [[You're saying, "Very good!]] Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.258.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Tell me, Mrs. Sierra, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Allusions of...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.259.0	Well, because he insulted Ciutadans and his voters.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.260.0	That's not allusions, Mrs. Sierra, to me very hard.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.261.0	Yeah, man, it seems to me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.262.0	That's not allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.263.0	See, to me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.264.0	Let's go to the... you don't have the word, Mrs. Sierra. Let's go to the... [[Najat Driuech Ben Moussa asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Driuech? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Say'm. I, in any case, allow me to remind you that, both from the escho and especially from the Faristol, I care, if... [[Widow's remorse.]] Listen, please, because it's a warning to all MPs. Both from the escho and especially from the Faristol, take care of your language. I said it yesterday, I'm going back to repeat it today, because there have been expressions that have been disrespectful to other Members of the House. And they demand that you respect yourself and that above all respect the institution representing the assembly of Members and Members and members of the Government. I warned you today, I warned you yesterday, and I'll warn you every time you need it. In any case, from the next time, I reserve the power to call to order and take disciplinary action. [[Greetings.]] Mrs. Driuech, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.265.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.266.0	Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.267.0	It's not allusions, it's just a description of a reality; it's just that. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.268.0	I know it's hard, Mrs. Driuech, but I can't. Not for that. [[Albert Batet i Canadell asks to speak.]] Say'msir...' Say'msir Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.269.0	Mr. President, just to show you the full support in the demonstration you just made. I think... [[Strong remorse of voice and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.270.0	It forms part of this call to responsibility and respect that I have done before, let talk and listen to the rest of the Members. [[Albert Batet i Canadell asks to speak.]] Say, Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.271.0	I understand that there are Members who feel more comfortable...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.272.0	Why...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.273.0	...on a television set that the Parliament of Catalonia, but this is the Parliament of Catalonia, there is a rule, which must be completed. [[laughs and remorse of the eyes]] , there are pipelines to..., behave, as marked by article 233.2 of the order...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.274.0	Mr. Batet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.275.0	Maybe they don't like to feel it, but it's a reality we have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.276.0	...I leave them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.277.0	...and it's 233.1. And we think it's good that he's tall, even close to intervention, when there are insults to people, deputies and counselors here in Parliament. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.278.0	Thank you, Mr. Batet, I reaffirm myself in what I said before. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.279.0	Well, I don't know exactly, for the same thing as Mr. Batet, to make an admonition... [[applause]] , an appeal to Parliament to be respected. I don't know, the same thing, sort of, but from my perspective.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.280.0	It is obvious that he has asked for a point of order, because there has been an incident before. If you ask me for a point of order, I will donate it or not, depending on whether I think it fits the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.281.0	Well, then I ask...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.282.0	But why do you ask for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.283.0	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.284.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.285.0	Yeah. We want to be respected in this Parliament in the same way that Members who share a group with the President of Parliament are respected. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.286.0	All right. Pass it over. [[Andrea Levy Soler asks to speak. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Excuse me. Say'm, Miss Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.287.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ...you said late, but quiet. Only to ask for a separate vote on point 3. [[Give me the applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.288.0	Any other separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.289.0	Point number four, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-08-1902.290.0	The three, the four... any more? [[Pause.]] The rest, I understand you can all vote together, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. So we'll start voting for point 3 of this motion. The vote begins. This point, point 3, was approved by 122 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the number 4 point of the motion. The vote begins. This was approved by 65 votes to one, with 60 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was adopted by 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions, that is, unanimously. [[Greetings.]] There are no more points in the order of the day for today. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
