ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.1.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, is resumed the session. [[Discussion on the general political orientation of the Government (continuation)]] [[255-00003/12]] We shall proceed, in accordance with Rule 155.3 of the Rules of Procedure, to defend the motions for resolutions subsequent to the debate on general policy orientation of the Government. Before we begin, I must say that Members Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva have announced that they have appointed Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights. For the defence of the motions for resolutions tabled, there is a turn of interventions, for a maximum of two minutes, for each parliamentary group, and five for the subgroup. The first word is for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa. When you want...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.2.0	Good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, everybody. Today, Tuesday, we had a general policy debate, and I say we had it, because what we have today is no longer the normal debate, in a normal parliament, of general policy. Look, we all represent, or should represent, the Catalans and, in particular, this Member who speaks to them, represents more Catalans, tens of thousands of Catalans more than the next most voted group in this House. And it is inconceivable that, until the very moment of rising up and speaking to these microphones, we were not clear that this plenary would begin. We were not clear that we could talk, we were not clear whether another one of these that you read was going to be linked, because you are trying to accommodate Parliament's Rules of Procedure to your own wishes. It is a shame, it is an absolute shame that this speech that I had prepared, for it has changed up to three times, depending on the circumstances to which you have led us, at the rhythms that you impose on us. Is that what a parliament should do in a normal country? – Is that what a parliament should do in a normal country? No, Mr. Torra, this is not normal, it is not normal for the rules of the game to be changed in the light of the interest of those who destroy everything, in order to get to do what you want. This is a shame, a ridicule, a contempt for this Parliament and an indignity. And what I'm telling you is that this is how I think we feel most of the Members of this House, that we don't know when we're going to have full time and when we're not, and what you're going to impose on every plenary. I think that is what it feels like, even the staff of this Parliament, who knows what time they enter and what time we are supposed to be doing a plenary, but then you never know at what time it ends and whether or not the plenary to be held will be held. That's how journalists feel, that journalists don't even know what's going to happen, we're all at the pace of, see what happens to you at every moment. And I've heard, even, and it's been the last, that I've been amazed, in the last press appearances that some of the separatist parties have made, they've already heard laughs in the journalists' banks, because of the ridiculous and the ravages of the situation, because of the disconnected explanations, by how one pretends to say one thing, but in reality one means another, and one doesn't know where one can get out... That's what you are, huh? But above all, more than deputies, more than house staff, more than journalists, more than citizens. What do the citizens think of this spectacle that you are giving in the Parliament of Catalonia? That is why I say to you that this is not a general policy debate, because the news that will reach the citizens, unfortunately, is not going to be, as a matter of priority, because we have reached an agreement on how to reduce the waiting lists in health, or an agreement that progresses something in infrastructure, or a tax agreement, on the things that matter to Catalans. It's not gonna come out of that. And it is not going to come out of that, because this plenary, unfortunate, this plenary that has already been cancelled – it was cancelled last week and we celebrate it this week – is preceded by those bad wishes that already announced all these painful outcomes, of a black week that we had, which began, therefore, with roadblocks, with threats, with aggressions, with signals, with an attempt to assault Parliament, with attempts to twist the Rules so that the vote who cannot vote, because it is suspended by the judges. Because we have a president who, when he comes out on the news, comes out as news because he exalts, supports, encourages, the separatist commands, encourages them to "squeeze, " "squeeze to whom? Who? Ciutadans? No, the Catalans – the Catalans –, to cut them off from the road, so that they do not arrive in time to take their children to school, or do not arrive in time to a test of the doctor, or not..., to make their life unbearable enough... You must prepare the citizens of Catalonia to make their life so unbearable that, in the end, they have to claudiate before the..., excuse, viviators of the process. [[Some applause.]] That's what you do. Three months – three months – with this Parliament closed. And when they open it, ridicule and shame. Today the news is: it is not going to be like I said, those agreements proper to a general policy debate, those votes more or less adjusted, whether or not the government will make that proposal proposed by the opposition, a pact on something that interests Catalans..., no. Today the news is the fight between Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya. That's the news, today, that's what's going to happen to the citizens. Look, the other day Inés Arrimadas said in his speech: "There are populations, between Mataró and Sabadell or between Reus and Tarragona, who have more than a hundred days waiting list to do some medical tests. That this is a matter of management, of pure management, which is for you, for the government. The government, these things, they're postponed, they're behind, they're hidden. Why? Because you're interested in just talking about the process. And since the process covers everything, in the end, even their own fights are what's left. You, Mr Torra, asked the separatists, the separatist commanders, "to squeeze all the citizens of Catalonia, to see if they make life unbearable enough. What we would ask of him and ask him is to press his government, to push them, but not for the process, not, so that they can get our police back to be a police accepted by all citizens and that..., free of suspicion of politicization, or that education begins to be respectful to all, in the classrooms; or that external action does not therefore serve to cast mud on the name of Spain. Or so that culture is not mediated and fanatized by the Koiné manifesto. Or so that prisoners are not given privileged treatment in justice, depending on whether they are friends or not, whether they are politicians or not. With what the councillor knows, who knows very well, how many people are imprisoned and have not had so many opportunities and so many warnings and yet they are strictly enforced by prison regulations, Madam councillor. Beware of those things, which are very ugly, and you know it, too, I know. But, well, everything, therefore, in this general policy debate is useless, as far as I can tell you. Look, we have dozens and dozens of proposals on education and culture, on health, on the social agenda, on gender equality, on the protection of the most vulnerable people, on the quality of life of people in the politics of the territory, on removing fat and promoting muscle in an administration so that it does not cost us so much and that the middle and popular classes do not pay the most taxes in all of Spain. All these measures, in the end, are postponed by their fights in the process. Look, you have already broken this Parliament, too. They have broken many things, they have broken their political parties, they have broken Catalan society, they have broken many things... but now they have broken, too, the confidence of the citizens that here, in a parliament, we should do things that really solve their lives and serve them for something. We are not going to be able to have that normal general policy debate. You, in this debate, for example, one of the great news that I remember that came out last week, and that we have almost forgotten, because other things, simply to comply or not with judicial resolutions have taken more of the focus; but what are you bringing to this Parliament? They bring, for example, to reproach the king. Why? Why do you have a lot of anger? No, because the king is the symbol that represents all Spaniards. And as you hate Spain and, besides, some of you, as good supremacists, you insult and hate, and you can't even see the Spaniards, so what do you do? Well, they'd pull the flags out of their town halls. Right, Mr. Batet? the Spanish flags, or reprimand the king. Why? Because it is a symbol that represents that union, solidarity, equality among all Spaniards. Yes, yes, sirs supremacists, who laugh because I understand that they are presided over by a gentleman who insults the vast majority of the Catalan population. Look, to finish now..., we've already talked about how many things we propose, but this general policy debate, if it makes any sense, too, is to show that you, now, now, now, what you have to do with it, then, in addition to what we're seeing today, is to assume, assume your defeat and start managing it. You haven't been able to get to the end of the road together. Stop lying, stop causing shame, stop making a fool of yourself. In their imaginary republic, Members are not suspended; but, in fact, what all Catalans know is that they are. And they won't be able to vote. Don't give us more full for shame and ridicule. Look, I think the constitutionalists have deep differences, between us, but at least we respect common rules of the game, which we can then change, but the difference between us and you, is basically that. And you, you don't even respect the invented rules of which you are gifted, because then, like the trilers, you cheat on each other and stab each other. Look, the Catalans and the rest of the Spanish are not going to endure so many lies, so many contempts. Sometimes, you have to get to the bottom, and at the bottom, hit a kick to get out to breathe, to breathe the air to the surface. I believe that some of those who have dragged us to the bottom are hardly going to kick that as I see no purpose for amendment. I think you're gonna get caught...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.3.0	Mr. Carrizosa, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.4.0	...in the dark of the depth where we've been taken. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.5.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Mrs. Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.6.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Members and Members..., it has cost us – it has cost us – three_months, but finally it seems that it has posed itself in this Parliament. But it is obvious that we have offered a spectacle at the crossroads of our country's citizenship and that we must all be ashamed of ourselves. And if anything happens to manifest this show, it's just that we don't go anywhere. The unfortunate spectacle they are offering since they arrived at the Government, but these days are giving the best numbers, puts two things in store: first of all, their inability to offer a stable and effective government that Catalonia needs; but, above all, the lack of respect for the citizenship of our country. Mr President, do you honestly believe that you are on condition to continue to rule Catalonia? You committed yourself, in the election campaign, to things that weren't in your hands, and that's why your speech doesn't really relate to reality. And that's why we're on this road without going out. Disobedience, we are clear that it leads us to disaster; we have seen it, we have seen it the past legislature. And we are glad that Esquerra Republicana has set himself up and, just as he has replaced Deputy Junqueras and Deputy Romeva, today is not enough for Junts for Catalonia to disobey the Supreme Court. Your government is deeply divided. And you, Mr. Torra, will have to decide: either democracy or disobedience, there is no other option. And if there ever was, the trust between you, we have the feeling that it's very, very touched. Because they fooled each other, because they set traps between you and they wanted to fool all of us. But I think this, from now on, doesn't work, President. It is difficult to think that in these conditions you will be able to continue to rule. The president of the ultimate seems to have a government at last. It would be easy to give the legislature by the end of the year, but this is at your hands, as well as, also, the ability to offer a government that is still close to you – is at your hands, President. Not a year ago we voted, and, as well as having a parliamentary majority, which is not a social majority, you have an obligation to lead the Generality. And today we're wondering if you'll be able to do it, because for now, we're pretty sure you won't. We have proposed it, and the Parliament approved the month of July, which calls on the parliamentary forces to establish a dialogue between the Catalan forces – and you have not yet made it – about the future. We're putting him in place to talk about the present right away, because it's obvious that his government is making water, and so we're not going anywhere. Catalonia deserves a stable and effective government. And today this government doesn't have tea. For many photos made by Mr. Torra and Mr. Aragonès, today's vote to the Bureau certifies that they can only follow a path, that of respect; that of respect for our laws, the courts; but, above all, to the citizenry, that you see shamed this unfortunate spectacle. Things have gone so badly in this debate that the approval of some or other resolutions is totally out of credibility. But the Socialist Group and Forward Units take our pocket, our responsibility seriously. We have come to this Parliament to do our best to hold a Parliament that is profitable for the citizenry by making our own pocket, that is, of opposition, while we have an irresponsible government, that puts its interests above all, that shuts and opens the Parliament to discretion, and that does not govern, even though they have no credibility and that tells us that the legislature will end when there is a feeling, and that my group, in a responsible way, has negotiated, and we have negotiated all that we can with the groups that have been willing to do so, in order to advance the action of concrete policies beneficial to the citizenry. And we have traded – we have traded – with groups that support the government in agriculture and energy transition. For what it does to energy transition, and taking into account the report they presented yesterday on the United Nations Science Panel on Climate Change, we made a deal with the Government on the energy transition proposal, to boost renewable energies and energy efficiency. It can't be, it's not a waste, that the last year, Catalonia hasn't installed a renewable megawatt. And we have also dealt with the government on agriculture and the rural world, some policies that the independenceists have abandoned and that have suffered 40_per_cent in the agricultural area and 80_per_cent in investments. Okay. So we ask you to return to prioritizing actions to deal with the crisis of prices in agricultural products, to scan small producers, and also to place the challenge of depopulation and poverty in the rural world on the government's agenda. We also want to highlight some of our proposals that we hope will be supported and approved. In the first place, those who have to see with public function. Counselor, with yours – with yours – do not solve the problems. Let us hope that it will be approved and that the Government will complete its obligations, that it will return what the public workers of the rest of Spain have already recovered. It's time to make up for his effort during the crisis, and that means the return of the extraordinary payments of 2013 and 2014, ensuring that the one of 2013 is the 2019 and the one of 14, the 20. We also hope that it will come forward and that proposals from the Socialist Group on education, universities and cultures will be adopted. That, once and for all, the inclusive school decree, which we have been waiting for a long time for, is out of the way, because children who have special difficulties can pull their education forward. And, above all, they had to withdraw their zero-three proposal. We don't want poetry, we want presuppositional parties. And, for that reason, we expect that today, once and for all, the financing of 1,600 euros per square and year, and that it is committed, too, to reaching 1,800, just as we want them to return the money to the gatherings. In the same way, in question of professional training, and also in universities; universities, once for all, we want to lower this 30_per_cent university fees, to equip the price of masters with degrees, and, once for all, public universities have what they need, which is a plan of university investments for their own years. It's the same with culture. And let us hope that it will also approve, that this ridiculous reversal in culture that makes this government of 0.7_per_cent of the assumption passes to '1.5. There are other resolutions that we also want to highlight quickly: the local world. They've left them alone. We need them to build confidence and make the investments they're playing. The same goes for us with housing: we need collaboration between different administrations. And for what he does to public servants, too: while waiting lists are being discussed, waiting lists continue to grow. And the same thing happens to us with attention to dependency and social services. We have other proposals, and we hope that they will also prosper: of labour inspection, against male violence, for childhood, on tourism, on many themes. But also, with the time I have left, I want to spend a few minutes on the subject, right? , because it seems that all this sectoral policies and the needs of Catalans are not important and that the headlines are the subject of the issue. We make it very easy: respect the laws, promote coexistence, promote the dialogue between governments. There are beneficial agreements between governments that may benefit everyone, continue to insist on this. But, unfortunately, this seems to be going for another band. This is 2018-2019, chapter of the process. After the round down of the unilateral road, after trying to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain, after lying before, during and after the electoral campaign – in this "late heat" that the president said, and that it seems that it is warm for some more than for others –, what they ask again –" firmly, they say – is a reference. That's what he used to say, huh? Mr. Torra... that tuite, huh? That said the agreed reference was like the legend of the fish Nicolau, and now asking for a reference, what things! I Esquerra Republicana, where I said« I say, I say« Diego. I don't know how many times they've voted and now they're asking again. And the commons, too. The Commons accompanying the bourgeoisie in a lawsuit that is obviously a big scam for ordinary people who say they defend. Okay. So this is the strategy, huh? This is the finding of lack of strategy. And I'm telling you, that's not possible. The references to independence are weapons of massive division; they are driven by nationalists who, from small to small, do not just recognize us to many fellow citizens as equals. And those who say they have to expand the base do so with false promises of economic benefits. Listen, the guy in charge of the Brexit campaign said he didn't lie about the bus, huh? , of the 350_million_liures leaving every week, did not win Brexit. So, this 16,000 million per capita income promise represents seven times more. His lie is seven times bigger than the one he planted in Brexit. Socialists are in a bad way, and that's not for legal reasons, is it? We are convinced that the best for Catalans is to have a good Spanish and European integration. You want to make Catalonia a tax haven outside the European Union. We want to integrate more and more with Spain and Europe. So we will vote against all and every resolution in a crystal-clear way that I see with something I have just explained. Just as we will vote against all the resolutions that speak of this supposed general repressive cause against independence. When you do and disband in public media, when you colonize streets, when the Administration does not defend the general interest, when the policies enter into the operation of the Mossos, when they are being investigated to use the data of all for the illegal reference and when they operate and hold Parliament at their discretion they do not come to us, above, to say that they pursue us. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Help us change Spain, improve it, make it more inclusive, improve what the People's Party left us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.7.0	Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.8.0	...and stop asking impossible questions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr Joan Josep Nuet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.10.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, I would like to devote the first words of my intervention to the exceptional situation with which we come to this House. I think it is essential to clarify the position of our parliamentary group. Our parliamentary group has long stated that sound and gesticulation for gesticulation are of no use, in the sense that in this chamber this mass is often manifested by different parliamentary groups. A few days ago the company Oriol Junqueras expressed, from inside the walls of the prison of Lledoners, the same concerns in a Spanish television program Weekly Report. It seems that the doctrine so repeated for President Tarradellas has been lost that the only one that can't be done in politics is the ridiculous one. And trying to make the Parliament of Catalonia do not make the ridiculous move; trying to make the Parliament of Catalonia do the ridiculous make stones against the roof of Catalonia, which is our roof. Deputies and deputies of Junts for Catalonia, I refer very directly to all of you, rectified. Correct and agree to appoint substitutes for the four Members who will not lose their deeds, you know. We have said so since the legitimate vote that we have voted in favour of this designation, and we are also the owners of this Parliament's agreement. Therefore, we ask you, I would say that we almost demand you, that you do not have in danger the conjunction of the Parliament of Catalonia, complete with the agreement of October 2, that you too voted just as we did. I am going to talk specifically about the motions for a resolution, because we would be in favour of doing as other parliamentary groups have done and not talking about people's problems. This plenary of general policy has come up with a situation of democratic exceptionality. That's obvious. I can remember it day and day too. Up at a time when we have prisoners and prisoners and political prisoners, and people outside of Catalonia who face prison feathers for up to thirty years. From Catalonia to Comú We can believe that Catalonia needs to move forward and must do so in all areas. The country has to move forward and open a new stage in national affairs, in the search for great consensus that makes us strong as a country and as a society; it needs to move forward in social matters after a dark decade in which it began 2008 with the worst social breakdowns ordered to the service of austerity. And thirdly, we believe that the country needs to move forward, too, in protecting the rights of people and of the territory. To act decisively, as a priority and as a matter of urgency against masculinist rapes. It must become, today and here, a country priority, with more resources and more attention on the part of the administrations. Six women have been murdered this year in Catalonia. I would like to refer to two motions for resolutions on the national axis. The first about a bilateral relationship model between Catalonia and the State. It is clear that the new bilaterality relationship between the State and the Generality is good news for all Catalans and Catalans because it opens a period of institutional dialogue and distension, but there is not enough. That this new stage takes on the diagnostics shared by large social majorities in Catalonia that are: that the autonomous model is exhausted in the eyes of a large majority of Catalans and Catalans; that it can achieve a new political status for Catalonia, that it responds to the desire for more sovereignty, and that the dialogue with the State is a condition of the possibility of more democratic advances. Bilaterality must be based on the principle of institutional equality. And another one we have tabled a resolution: on the clear-cut pact. We have always said: Catalonia must be able to decide its future, but for this reason it must be a political, social and national agreement; an agreement resulting from a dialogue in Catalonia. As long as Catalan policy is clear, it has a direction and a political agenda. The attempts to correct to generate us plebiscite marches, as the last one that President Torra made us in his investiture speech, make us less and make us weaker. The Clarity Pact has to serve us to debate how legitimate for the Catalan and Catalan joints – I repeat, legitimate for the Catalan and Catalan joints, and not just a part of the country – the realization of a reference on the future policy of Catalonia. Mass we often have national debates that incomprehensiblely avoid dealing with the model of country we want and, even more, avoid talking about com. So we make a proposal about what and how. The Clarity Pact must be a tool of national construction with a strategic orientation; yes, strategy, so much so that we find ourselves missing in the government of President Torra. Strategy to agree successfully on what we propose in this motion for a resolution, that it is neither more nor less than the celebration of a reference on the future policy of Catalonia and an agreement between the vast majority of political and social forces to have granted a procedure, a question, conditions of reality and an interpretation of the outcome. Yes, Mrs. Eva Granados, we may accompany ourselves sometimes by people you don't understand, but I would appreciate it if you and your parliamentary group would stop accompanying the 155 block at the time of making proposals for the future for Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Because neither with Ciutadans nor with the Popular Party we find, a socialist companion, the solutions that Catalonia needs. To say that we will vote in favour of Junts' proposal for Catalonia and the Republican Left for a reference granted and binding, because the proposal itself is already a theme to the proposal for the ultimate that President Torra offered in the investiture debate. And, obviously, we have always been here, as we would like all the sovereignists to vote in favour of the clear-cut pact that we offer. What makes Catalonia agree on a reference made to Catalonia and from Catalonia? Or isn't that clear? Therefore, of course, we will support this proposal. For this reason, I would like to say that we are also proposing a set of proposals for a resolution to put the needle straight, as they are obviously promoting autonomous work in decent conditions; I am referring to a block of social policies that define for us the Catalonia we want and the Catalonia we are. To defend the public university in order to complete the agreements of Parliament in the matter of taxes. Also begin to talk about the territory, for example the Costa Brava, which is now under the threat of urban speculation. Asseure'samb the platform SOS Costa Brava and modify the Pla urbanistic director of the costaner system. Solve the obvious problem of public safety. That is why we would vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the companies of the CUP. We defend a broader critical view, not just for the disastrous operations of September 29 and October 1, but there are massive complaints in the territories, mass mayors and mayors engaged and engaged, of all political colors; the police unions are in the process of winning, and all the opposition calls on the councillor to rectify. Counselor, listen to the rectifications.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.11.0	Mr. Nuet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.12.0	I ended up, at last, just to quote briefly that, obviously, we need to talk about the subject of male violence – before I mentioned it – and we need more than a statement of a plan, assumptions, assumptions and assumptions. We need to talk about the public school, the day care centers, the precarious situation of public health in Catalonia, because we care...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.13.0	Mr. Nuet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.14.0	...and we're interested. And finally, we need to talk about people need lighting, water, electricity and heating. She's the most needy people, and they're the ones asking that this general policy debate... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.15.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. It is now the return, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, of Mrs. Natilia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.16.0	Well, good afternoon. We have little time; therefore, I will go to the top. The Catalan countries are experiencing an important regression of political, social, economic, cultural and economic rights. I, on this simple but difficult analysis, we have put forward the proposals of the CUP - Crida Constituent. With our proposals we want to reclaim the right of this people to exercise their self-determination, which is the right mother of all the rest of the assigned rights. These days we have more present than ever President Carme Forcadell, who presided over the last general policy debate and who today is unfairly engaged in allowing all the debates. We also want to say again today, October 9th, Diada Nacional del País Valencia, that we are Catalan Countries. He sang to the Tall, in that mythical song, that "it is not taught in the schools how they slaved a country, because from that seed they continue to colint fruit. This phrase reminds us of the importance of not forgetting how the country, like the regime, has broken apart, at times of collective amnesia, tried to silence and erase a story that is also ours, a day that is also ours. For Ovidi, for Fuster and Estellés, for Guillem, for the Anonymous Teres, for the Valencian school, for the Punta and the Cabanyal, for the victims of the metro of València, for the forest bombers carrying twenty-six days of vacation and for the anti-fessist struggle, we are Catalan Countries. And both to the Valencian country as here we have to put on the table the central question, which is where we have tried to focus our proposals for resolution: the limits of autonomy as it is for social transformation. In the mark of the Spanish Constitution there is no realistic social transformation, there is no possible rupture. Aren't we after October 1st? October 1st showed that the confluence of people's strength, with the involvement of institutions, can overcome any barrier. It's not that the CUP knows it; you probably, Governor, also know it, and maybe it's based on it. It's about putting back into operation the most powerful popular power we've ever experienced, and that's about breaking down all power relations between Catalonia and the State. As we keep thinking about the logic of the old world, we can't get out of this disconcerting block. The new cultural order that arose from the break with the 78's rule is not materialized by magic art. Do you think they can transform the country we know by applying the same policies they've applied for decades? We don't think so. Mr. Torra asked us together the other day, he asked us that if we weren't together, we wouldn't get out of it. We tell him that if they don't put this government to work for his people, his people will never get together and never forgive him. Today the people of Catalonia have a lot of problems to arrive at the end of the month, the people of Catalonia do not guarantee the ground floor, Catalonia leads the highest number of denunciations from all over the State. What do you think you're doing? We think that immediately we need to expropriate the empty habitats in the hands of the benches. Imagine being able to weave an institutional and popular alliance at the 1st of October level to secure the footstool for everyone? We do imagine that, and this is our political proposal. October 1 also shows that one of the main obstacles is and will be the great companies of IBEX 35, which are so well represented in this chamber, chants of which we have known the maneuvers of the harpsichord these days. Do you not see, that without a public, cooperative, social and economic bank there will be no republic possible? And after the citizenry has planted in front of the banker gangster, Rodrigo Rato, we also propose that we continue to mobilize against those who become rich at the expense of our misery. And that's why the CUP we're particularly accused of in the trial that started last week for the Caixa Catalunya subs. Certainly, some of the parties in this chamber, all of them on the board of directors then, explain to the whole company. Hello, Mr. Iceta? A drill with 12_million euros. We, as has already been said, have also been forced to present a motion for a resolution for the right to protest and political dissent, because today is not guaranteed, and not just because of the Spanish State, because Mr. Buch and his squadron mosses are constantly suppressing political dissent. We tell them to stop hitting people, to stop calling families and to stop feeding Aznars' stories. Train with the logical sails of power, or there will be no republic possible. Since the democratic demand is again subversive, we want to ask them a question both to Esquerra Republicana and to Junts for Catalonia, and also to the commons: between saving the logical veils of power, saving the logical veils of capitalism, saving the logical veils that you yourselves consolidated through the pact, or saving democracy, what trien? We want to create one, two, three October 1st in the Catalan Countries and run from the Spanish State, as a way to expand rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.18.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the word, therefore, to defend the fourteen motions for resolutions that we have tabled from the People's Party of Catalonia in this lengthy debate on general policy that began last week and that seems to be that it will end today, we suppose. And in this sense I would not like to entertain myself in the conjunctures that we are experiencing of the moment, and I wanted to talk, therefore, about the motions for resolutions that we have tabled, because I think they are important, the ones that we have tabled by our group and those that other parliamentary groups have tabled. And, in this sense, as to quote them at least. I will not be able to entertain myself, nor do I have time; there are other questions that I think are important to debate. But they are proposals for resolution that talk about problems, for example, of public service, how and when the extra pay of the officials of the Generalitat of the years 2013 and 2014, you will function and workers of the Generalitat of Catalonia. They are resolution proposals that talk about how we try to boost Catalonia's economy and how we try to improve job creation, how we try to improve employment and how taxation can also affect wealth creation, the economy and, therefore, the welfare of people and the welfare of families. Also on social policies: what are the main problems that we have at this time with regard to dependency, on individual attention plans and on the benefits that still have very dependent pending. On the problems faced by families, in plural: from teaching from zero to three years to many other questions that families have pending. As we apply and improve accessibility to people with disabilities. Teaching. Let us continue on a permanent basis – and we do not take up any day-to-day plans or parliamentary debates – with more than a thousand barracks at our schools, students starting and finishing the barrack studies – before constructive solutions go "I don't know what. There are still more than twenty thousand students in Catalonia who study in barracks. But there are also problems about how to apply inclusiveness to school. We also want to debate – our group wants to do it, and I think other groups want to do it too – about bilingualism and trilingualism in school. We also believe it is essential to guarantee educational concerts, basically to guarantee the plurality of teaching, to guarantee the freedom of Catalans to choose a teaching model that agrees with their convictions, which some, we have heard many times and many times, want to try to limit. We are concerned about the provision of health services, we are concerned about the health of Catalans, we are concerned about the material and human means available to public health facilities to care for people. We are concerned that, for example, so, as we know, we know that a TAC in Berga is scattered and the citizens must go all the way to Manresa in order to be able to do the tests and pay a higher cost of this. We're worried about obsolete material. We are concerned that there are oncological treatment teams that must be closed during the month of August for a holiday and that this will cause harm to patients. We're worried, and very, waiting lists. We are concerned about aspects of the territory, housing, agriculture, justice and prison services. Yes, you serve penitentiaries, and you know what we're talking about perfectly – you know what we're talking about. And we are concerned that the public communication media of the Government of Catalonia follow some communication media that only meet the half of the people of Catalonia. And security policies. We are concerned about the staff of the Mosso d'Esquadra, we are obviously concerned, but we are also concerned, and for this reason we are focusing on a specific proposal with regard to the us partisan who has since the Government of the Generality and, especially, the President, made the Cosso dels Mosso d'Esquadra. And that's why we're putting forward a motion for a resolution that I support the body, after the same president has been the same president who has put in doubt the professionalism. Leiability and coexistence, two fundamental aspects and two aspects that cannot be fulfilled under the presidency of President Torra. Certainly, just a few minutes ago we learned that the Tribunal Superior de Justicia de Catalunya considers that its 2012 article, "Language and beasts, is incitement to hatred. President, if you want to do Catalonia and Catalan a favor, please pray – pray. Finally, I shall end by positioning myself with regard to a motion for a resolution which has been put forward by some other parliamentary groups. And they will allow me to say this with a clear, unscattered voice, but with solemnity: "Hide the king! Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.19.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mrs. Anna Caula's turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.20.0	Thank you, President. First of all, humiliated – humiliated – because we recognize that we don't like each other and are not comfortable with days like you said before, but the most important thing is that we are here today. The Parliament is back in operation and with all intent to continue working to refer this unit and pull forward. That's what the country needs and deserves, and that's why we're here. In view of the enormous democratic exceptionality, we have the obligation to protect democracy, finding solutions with rigour and honesty, which protect the majority and the effectiveness of the votes and, at the same time, the political rights of our companies and MEPs and in exile, from all – the deputy Romeva, Turull, Rull, Junqueras, Puigdemont and Sánchez. We are here, in a general policy debate, willing to serve the public, social justice, freedom, equality and independence. We are here, precisely, for all this, to make a society better for everyone, fairer, freer and cleaner, from republicanism, ruling for everyone, from honesty and the vocation to serve. A government of the people and for the people. And that's exactly why we want independence, because it's an essential step. The republic is the eine, the initial objective essential to build a fairer society; our goal since eighty-seven years ago. And social struggle, the stake for social policies is the best way to work for the republic. For us, the struggle for national freedom is absolutely inextricable from the social struggle and the struggle for social rights and freedoms is the best way to achieve national time, the Catalan Republic. We want to achieve independence in order to create a better society and with a state serving its citizens, we do not want to follow in a state where decisions are constantly taken that go against the interests of Catalans. Very simple, a new country, for everyone, to stop the mistakes of this state falling, the elites, the oligopolises, centralism, the underprivileged, but also to end with autonomy, the market, the pacts to satisfy the elites, to end with the infra-financing of the services, despite generating sufficient resources, a new country where there is no one, an attractive project, open, wide and clearly majority. We live in a digital world, where globalization intercommunicates everyone and everyone, that makes us proper the information, that makes us own many models of powerful society, a society like ours that asks more, asks modernity, asks oxygen, asks to hold like horitzó, yes, hope, life with capitals, and here we are. We work to reinvent ourselves, to evolve, to transform the refugee country from a regime that respects more the unity of the country than its fellow citizens, where, in the face of it, it still respects a monarch that all merit is that was born in a monarchy. In this sense, our PRs talk about the social model of the Catalan Republic we want, we talk about improving health and welfare, everything that makes life easier for citizens, we talk about everything that makes all of us feel better about institutions and that makes us feel part of how we want our country, and we talk, obviously, also, about democracy, about defending rights and freedoms before repression and also about self-determination. Let's teach the citizen there's a way to rule for himself and not against him. And that's why we work a lot, a lot, from all the areas that are in our midst – gatherings, local world, government, parliament – because that's all, with the sum of everything and everyone, being what we want to be: republic, to become a modern and captivating society. The Board of Governors, which is ambition and solid, goes on this line. I would like to make a summary of all the areas where we have made proposals. Our deputies and our deputies believe that, the other day, they did a huge job and that they did not stay to present transactions in all areas. Tanmateix, I know it would take a lot of time, which I don't have, but I'll take advantage of what's left of me. Social issues. With a clear objective, a social protection system that ages for a cohesive society, that empowers and supports people and families. "To make work the best social policy, as always the Dolors Bassa said. Continue to count on the invaluable collaboration of the third sector, the social entities and the institutions of the country. Tanmateix, too, always our commitment to people who are migrating. We can't play with big issues, we have to do it with extreme seriousness and rigour. It must be a matter of consensus and not a political battle. Hey. We have an internationally recognized health system and also for our professionals and users, with an eight-fold satisfaction that is maintained in time, which is for us the most important value. An annual investment of more than €10,400_million for 2018 that allows us to continue to give this closeness that characterizes us. Still, we want to continue to improve, so we present a PR, especially, to respond to the territorial inequalities, socioeconomic, of genera and many other aspects. It is a shame, however, that the unanimous agreements that we come to work at the committee cannot be transferred, today, to the plenary. We will continue to work with the will to deploy all the points of our PR, incorporating those proposals from the other working groups, even though a great initial consensus was initiated for a joint transaction of almost all parliamentary groups. We would have to ask ourselves, however, whether, in the end, the pesso has been left to the balance of the needy of a country in a central area or the interested partyists and the political vote have ended up winning. Teaching. We bet, as it cannot be in any other way, overtly, for the defense of the model of the Catalan school, an inclusive and fighting school for inclusion; a tool of social and territorial cohesion and an engine of personal and cultural progress. Cabdal also – also – boost and prestige the professional formation and cabdal also fight to age for the stage from zero to three years, and here all the compromise of our parliamentary group. It seems as if the Generalitat has recovered this co-responsibility; it is probably also in the timing where we differ, not in the background of this point. And we'd keep talking about a lot of other things. We would talk about territories, the environment, with an economy that does not generate negative impacts around it, and the look at improving mobility and making it more efficient, without oblivion of the realm of urbanism and many others. Just as the world of agriculture, protecting the rural world, as a model of a country, we bet on territorial balance with the impulse of policies aimed at enhancing rural repopulation, as well as encouraging the role of the woman in this world and young people as guarantors of the future of this sector, linked to proposals in general digital policy, so as to have intelligent cities of the 21st century. It is also important to improve the poor connectivity of small municipalities, which affects their competitiveness in the daily life of veins and veins. We refer them, we prioritize them, we never forget them. Tanmateix, another key aspect of the country: housing. The compromise of this parliamentary group in relation to the right of housing is absolute and irrevocable. Regarding the public office and PR that will be approved today. And so we are all in favour of recovering 2013 and 2014 payments, and we are still on hold and that commitment is there. But, also, do we have to allow ourselves to play with people, promising unviable things? We know we agree. Tanmateix, we have to set up a real calendar. Returning payments for 2013 and 2014 are 1,070_million euros, this is equivalent to all the assumptions of Justicia and four times that of Culture. In the language of Mrs. Arrimadas would be 267 times the cost of delegations abroad. Finally, the PRs that Esquerra has presented to the general policy debate reflect key aspects of our conception of democracy. A plural public space, of republican freedom, a defense clinging to parliamentary democracy as a sacred now to confront ideas without coercion or imposition, as President Forcadell taught us, and the permanent commitment to self-determination, vote and ballots, to build a republic of everyone and everyone. They are proposed girls in position, to continue building and building great consensus around the Catalan Republic, to advance the country and strengthen the defense of civil and political rights and basic democratic freedoms. And call on all Democrats to defend this cause and our institutions, acknowledge that there are basic principles that challenge us all over the political dispute. I, finally, remind you that you're the one we want to be. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.21.0	Thank you, Mrs Caula. Finally, it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia, of Ms Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.22.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. MPs, MPs, from the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, we have proposed three proposals for specific resolutions on political and other issues that we have dealt with with the different groups here, from the chamber. The three political proposals that we are presenting, each one of them gives an answer to a question. The first: with which Europe is the Catalan Republic? As Helmut Kohl said: "Europe is our future, Europe is our destiny. In a period of lack of legal guarantees which directly affect the quality of democracy, we are determined to invoke this free area of Europe, this Europe of judicial guarantees which did not allow the surrender of President Puigdemont and the rest of the Government to exile and, in change, to Spain, a country where public money is paid by judicious bodies and magistrates, with insults, manifesting the lack of impartiality in order to impart justice. The existence of this chat is a scandal. Can you imagine Alemanya? It's still very normal. Silence and lack of consequences. But we can rest assured, Mr. Iceta warned us. As the Council of Europe warned us with the Greek report, from the lack of judicial independence to Spanish justice. We held a president of the Constitutional Court, Francisco Pérez de los Cobos Orihuel, who had been a popular party activist, very normal. And the head of the command of the « to them, l'1 d'octubre, curiously, is Diego Pérez de los Cobos Orihuel. It's still very normal. But for Juntes for Catalonia it is normal, so we want Parliament to express its full support for policies of equality and justice. We defend the Schengen agreement as a matter of principle in order to guarantee the equality and freedom of all Europeans. Europe is the mark where all democratic demands fit, where the separation of powers is guaranteed. Our second motion for a resolution gives an answer to the question: How can we build and advance towards the Catalan Republic? We defended the creation of a civic debate for a republican, inclusive and prosperous policy. On the other day, Congresswoman Albiach referred to the demonstrations of May 8th, of the "We want to gather. Do we create a participative and open debate space that goes down and up? That is why we are urging President Torra to push this debate together with the institutions and organised civil society. For the import of the project and for the willingness to seek a consensus proposal, we withdraw this Resolution Proposal number 24 to continue working on it. And our third motion for a resolution responds to the question of: "Do we live in a normal situation? We don't live in a normal situation, nor will we normalize it. Mr. Carrizosa, it's not a normal ple, we're not in a normal legislature: we have prisoners and exiles. The difficulties in bringing this Ple forward, beyond the self-criticism that we have to do with public representatives, must not be forgotten that there has been repression and the interference of a judge, Mr Llarena. But what is the response of the Spanish State to the democratic demands of Catalonia? So the repression, the rape of October 1st. And why? Because they're looking at the results of the polls. I've never had the ballot box to hold. That is why the 155th tripartite applied this ignominious article. They've violated themselves and they're still violating themselves. Voting is a crime. Allowing you to vote cannot last in prison or exile in a democratic state. And all of you, when we started in September, asked us: "How was the summer? – Badly, very bad. - Why did he go wrong? – So why are there people who have spent the summer in prison; people who have not been able to carry their children, in their first life, for example, to the platter or the pool, for an unjust prison, because of a state..., and a state with a false state relation. And that's absolutely irreparable. As Counsellor Forn brings to the samarreta, "there are not enough prisons for so much dignity. A fair trial? Right to the defense? An impartial court? Do we remember that they went to the summons on November 1st, on a holiday, to testify on November 2nd, accused of a crime of rebellion for thirty years? In less than twenty-four hours the lawyers had to face a lawsuit of one hundred and seven follies? Is that right to the defense? Aviat will make a year of this unjust arrest, of this false report that does not pass any international filter. Yesterday we saw how the judge of Number 13 of Instruction already inhibited the cause of rebellion, he has already done his job. Therefore, President Torra, all the support of the parliamentary group to deal with all those actions from Parliament when these sentences are produced, if they are not of freedom or acquittal. But calmly, Mr.Iceta had already warned us; the one who did warned us was Rosa Luxemburg, when he said: "Who is not soft, do not feel the chains. And in this sense, we're moving and we're feeling them. This is why we urge the Government to provide the Civil and Political Rights Office with the maximum political content, in order to break the chain of repression. A chain that Catalan society has already broken is the chain of the monarchy. The king from the Spaniards, who made a defense of police violence and a defense of economic violence, making tricks and demanding the escape of capital and of the empreses, no longer felt. That is why we are calling for the abolition of the monarchy, and it is that republicanism grows out of the hand of independence. We must also express our position in favour of the CUP in its proposal when it refers to the reaffirmation of Catalonia's imprescriptible and inalienable right to self-determination: we will never give up. Sometimes, for this reason, as President Torra said, we should never raise ourselves from the dialog table for the exercise of the right to self-determination. Now, Mr. Sanchez, the support for the motion of censure wasn't a white check, time ran out. And, as President Torra said last week, the establishment at the Congress is over in November. But the centrality of the country rules. He rules there. And that is why we have negotiated proposals with the Commons – in many of them we vote yes, in others we abstain – with the Socialist Party, with the UPC. Why? Because we are concerned about the return of the payments of the civil servants, to deploy the Catalan Agency of Social Protection, to deploy the Law of Guaranteed Income, the Law of Rights and Opportunities, the historical memory, knowledge, the schools of Bressol, the people migrated. And while all these proposals... we've already listened to what defense Mr. Carrizosa has made. I told them one day, "They're smoking machines. They don't have plans, they don't have a country, they don't have politics. Your problems are fictitious. We already saw how they filled the other day, at Plaça Sant Jaume. And I have to admit that the other day, in the General Policy Plenary, I broke up when President Torra referred to culture policy and libraries, and you were to come to your senses. What are they doing at the municipal library? I'm sure they've been, like me, to the Emilia Xargay Library, to Sarrià de Ter. So we have some students who do their homework, because they certainly can't do it at home; a retiree who accesses the digital journal; a university student gives rest classes. Libraries, lords and lords of Citizens, are social cohesion, equal opportunities and an effort culture. [[Greetings.]] And I say to them: "Who is president of a country, who wants to proclaim and make effective a Catalan republic, who projects more hopeful if the focus is on a country's libraries. Therefore, fewer flags and more libraries. Another thing: we voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the Communs concerning the protection of the Costa Brava. Here I have to say that the Government of the Generality has exercised at most its competitions in the field of coastal protection, with the innovative master plans of the coastal system, innovative to the whole of Spain. And I remember it: there's a cathedral in Paris, right urbanist, the Morand Deviller, that says urbanism is a matter of state. And I've always defended it, that. Why? Because we need the skills of a state, we need a law of the soil, we need a law of costs. The government wants to protect the environment, it wants to protect costs, but we need maximum competition. And these only give them to the Catalan Republic. Because, besides, there is a book, which the recommended, by Professor Martín Mateo, speaks of the Spanish environmental law, which is called The Chicken of the Cement Eggs. And if you read this book you will see that the only way you can have the maximum skills to protect the coast of Catalonia and that you are not as crowded as Spanish is through a law of the Catalan Republic. We have also voted in favour of the Communs d'emergência proposal in the field of housing and energy poverty. Together for Catalonia, he voted in favour of this proposal and in others he abstained. Why? Because we are in favour: right to housing is a global problem, it is a very important problem. Now, I have to tell you, it's never gonna be enough. If we really want to face it, do we make a Catalan constitution and put the right to housing as the right to use it and not as it is in the Spanish Constitution? Do we put ourselves in rights and obligations? Therefore, we have voted many proposals, we have a project, we have a government that governs, what we want is to build the Catalan Republic. They believe that there is a need for social policies, integrative policies, to be long-term. Together for Catalonia we will always be, we will never give up the compliment of our objectives and try hard to end our parliamentary activity with dignity and unity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.23.0	All right, once the debate is over, let's proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. The proposals shall be voted in accordance with the order of entry into the General Register of Parliament, in accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? Yes, Mrs. Caula, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.24.0	Thank you, President. Before you announce the votes, we would like to ask you for a correction of errors in voice – you know it's hard for us to be at the last minute – of paragraph 4 of PR 21 of our parliamentary group, referring to the State Law 13/2007, of 26 December, should refer to Law 52/2007. I apologize.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.25.0	Yeah, I'm sorry, they passed me and I didn't mention it. It's actually a misrepresentation correction, just the name of a law, huh? All right. [[Pause.]] All right. All motions for resolutions appear in order of order in the plenary file, which has been distributed to all Members. We will begin, as we say, by order of entry into the Register of Parliament, for the motions for resolutions submitted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. I would also like to make it clear to you, the band of this error correction that was now under discussion, that Motion for a resolution number 1 has been negotiated with proposals number 4 and number 9 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can, and therefore we will vote for them at the end. Okay? [[Pause.]] To the band, too, and as Mrs. Geis expressed, to say that Junts per Catalunya withdraws Motion for Resolution number 24. Therefore, we will not vote for this. I would also like to say that, given that Motion for a resolution No. 2 has been negotiated with Motion for a resolution No. 20, presented jointly for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group, we will also vote for it at the end, with all the remaining transactions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Do you have any more details? [[Pause.]] Can you start voting? [[Pause.]] All right. So we'll start voting. I remember them, seeing what happened the last time, that they had to "press the button of presence and then mark the feeling of the vote. We'll ring the bell to vote. [[Long break.]] All right, we'll start voting, and we'll start with Motion for Resolution No. 3 – Motion for Resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 65, with 65 abstentions. Let us now proceed to the next vote, which is Motion for a resolution number 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 25 votes to 105, with no abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on Motion for a resolution number 5– number 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to four, with 60 abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on Motion for a resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on the next motion for a resolution, Motion for a resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 65, with 65 abstentions. Let us proceed to the vote on the next motion for a resolution, Motion for a resolution number 8. The vote begins. In this motion for a resolution there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. As you know, we will have to repeat the vote. We shall therefore vote again on Motion for a resolution No 8. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, the result was the same as in the previous vote; therefore, 65 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. They know that, on a regular basis, we should now leave a break and vote again. Can you vote directly? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Does it look like it? [[Pause.]] All right. So, we will vote again on Motion for Resolution No. 8. The vote begins. Well, the same result has occurred that in the two previous votes, that is: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. The majority did not wish to approve this motion for a resolution, but it was automatically rejected. And now we're going to vote for the next... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.26.0	Yes, on a point of order. It has been said that there has been a tie, but of the correct application of the interlocutory of the Supreme Court which suspends the six Members, and considering, as we believe, that this procedure carried out by the Parliament is not sufficient and is not within the legal framework for the two Members who have submitted the documentation as requested by the Bureau... because, for us in these votes, there has not been a tie, but that the motion for a resolution which was put to the vote would have really prospered, since there is no such tie, there are two more votes on the part of the votes which have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, which I note because my group will go to the Constitutional Court to assert these rights which we believe have been violated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.27.0	All right, Mr. Carrizosa. If you consider that your rights have been violated, you have all the right of the world to go to where you think relevant, but now we're still voting. Let's go to the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Say, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.28.0	In order not to be interrupting the plenary session each time, because for successive votes we make use of the same exception.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.29.0	All right, let's be warned. All right, let's move on. [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] I'm sorry, Miss Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.30.0	Yes; we ask for the word because it is in accordance with the decisions that we have taken by the absolute majority in this House, and, therefore, that the suspensions resulting from the resolution of the Llarena court are not accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.31.0	All right. We continue with the vote on motion for resolution No. 9 – motion for resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 65, with 65 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 25 votes in favour, 101 against and 4 abstentions. We shall now proceed with the vote on Motion for a resolution No. 11; 11. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 29 votes to 40, with 61 abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on the next motion for a resolution, namely number 12. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution, number 12, was adopted by 126 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the following motion for a resolution, number 13. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 61, with 4 abstentions. And let us now vote on the next motion for a resolution, number 14. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the following, and let us now move to the block of motions for resolutions of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. We vote for resolution No. 1 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 39 votes in favour, 73 against, 17 abstentions and one speaker who did not vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] The presence, obviously, we are talking about a Member present. [[The remorse of sight and laughter persists.]] Let us now proceed to the vote on the following motion for a resolution, in this case number 2 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution is rejected by 39 votes in favour, 91 against, with no abstentions and some Member who has not voted. [[Widow's remorse.]] Excuse me, 90 - 90. Excuse me, 90. All right, let's proceed to the vote on the next motion for a resolution. I remind them to mark the presence button and then vote. We vote for resolution No. 3 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 73, with 17 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 4 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 41 votes to 72, with 17 abstentions. And let us now vote on motion for resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 90, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on the next one, it's motion for resolution number 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 73 with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 90, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the following, which is resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 90 against and 36 abstentions. Let us now vote on the following, that is, the motion for a resolution No. 9; the motion for a resolution No. 9 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 90 against and 36 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 4 votes to 89, with 37 abstentions. Let us now vote on the following motion for a resolution, number 11. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 74, with 16 abstentions. Let us now vote on the next motion for a resolution, number 12. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 126 against and no abstentions. We now vote on resolution No. 13 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 72, with 18 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 14. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 64, with 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Let's start with the motion for resolution number 1 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 8 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on the motion for resolution No. 2 of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 37 votes to 57, with 36 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution No. 3 of Catalonia in Comú Puedes was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. As Resolution No. 4 has been negotiated with Resolution No. 9 of the same group and Resolution No. 1 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, we will vote on this transaction at the end, apart from the transactions. So let us now proceed directly to the vote on motion for resolution No 5, with the error correction tabled, which I understand all groups are aware of. Let us therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for resolution No. 5 of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 86 votes to four, with 40 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution, number 6, was adopted by 126 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the next motion for a resolution, namely number 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 7 was adopted by 72 votes to 57, with no abstentions. Let's move on to the next vote. That is to say, as resolution No. 8 was also negotiated with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, we will vote on it at the end; and resolution No. 9 was also negotiated with resolution No. 4 and resolution No. 1 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. Therefore, on 8th and 9th with these transactions, we will vote for them at the end. And we proceed directly to vote on the motion for resolution No. 10 of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 90 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 11. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was unanimously adopted, namely 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. As the next motion for a resolution, namely number 12, has also been dealt with with by the motion for a resolution number 1 presented jointly by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group for the Republic, we will vote on it at the end, as the rest. We shall therefore proceed directly to vote on resolution No 13. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution No. 13 of Catalonia in Comú Puedes was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. Let us now vote on the next motion for a resolution, namely number 14. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution No. 14 from Catalonia in Comú May have been adopted by 69 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. So far the motions for resolutions of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's start with motion for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 73 with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 90, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 89, with 1 abstention. Let us now vote on Resolution No. 4, No. 4 of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 73, with 17 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 73 with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6 of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on the next motion for a resolution, namely number 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 64 votes to 32, with 34 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. Ciutadans' motion for a resolution No. 8 was adopted by 65 votes to 30, with 35 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 9, including the error correction that affects point No. 3 and that should not all be known. So let us now proceed to the vote on motion for resolution No. 9. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 9 was adopted by 65 votes to 59, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 11. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 61, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 12 of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 73 with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 13. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 36 votes to 90, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 14. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 64, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. We shall begin by voting on motion for resolution No. 1. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, please, that there are many votes left. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 13 votes in favour, 117 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 2 was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 118 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution, number 3 of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, is rejected by 12 votes in favour, 118 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. Motion for resolution No. 4 was rejected by 12 votes to 65, with 53 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 118 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 118 against and 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on motion for resolution No. 7, with the correction of errors presented, for which the letters to and b, we are aware, become a single point. We therefore vote in favour of resolution No 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution... there was a tie in the vote: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. We shall repeat the vote. The vote on the motion for a resolution No. 7 begins. The vote begins. The exact same result has been achieved: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. As before, do they seem that we can move directly to the third ballot? Yeah? [[Pause.]] So let's re-vote motion for resolution number 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 7 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent is finally rejected by 65 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, sir, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.32.0	Yes, for a point of order. Simply to say that for the CUP - Constituent Creed, this proposal has been legitimately approved by Parliament's Plenary. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-09-1603.33.0	All right. We shall now proceed to vote on the following motion for a resolution, motion for a resolution number 8. We shall now proceed to vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 9 was rejected by 12 votes to 57, with 61 abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on motion for resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution is rejected by 29 votes... [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. By 29 votes to 101, it was adopted. Let's move on to the next motion for a resolution, number 11. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 11 was rejected by 12 votes to 17, with 101 abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled jointly by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group. As resolution number 1 has been negotiated with resolution number 12 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, we will vote on this with the transactions at the end. Therefore, let us proceed directly to vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 60 votes to 61, with 9 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 3 was adopted by 70 votes to 56, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 4 was adopted by 67 votes to 60, with two abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 5 was rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. We vote on Motion for resolution No. 6, with the correction of errors submitted, which affects paragraph 5, renumber paragraph 12 and add three separate paragraphs: 13, 14 and 15, including the correction of errors in paragraph 13. The vote on the motion for a resolution No. 6 begins. The motion for a resolution was adopted by 78 votes to 36, with 16 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 86 votes to 40, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 126 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 90 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 122 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 11. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 12. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution is with one tie: 61 votes in favour, 61 against and 8 abstentions. We shall therefore proceed to vote again on this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. There was again a tie: 61 votes in favour, 61 against and 8 abstentions. Let us therefore vote for the third time on this motion for a resolution. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 13. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 77 votes to 53, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 14. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 61 votes to 40, with 29 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 15. The vote begins. In this vote there was a tie: 61 votes in favour, 61 against and 7 abstentions. So let us vote again on the same motion for a resolution, namely number 15. The vote begins. The same tie was again produced: 61 votes in favour, 61 against and 8 abstentions. Go back to voting. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 61 votes to 61, with 8 abstentions. After the third coat has been produced, it is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to vote on resolution No. 16. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 61 votes to 44, with 25 abstentions. Pass it over. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let us now vote on resolution 17 – resolution 17. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 60 votes in favour, against and 69 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution 18. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 57, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No 19. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 61 votes to 53, with 16 abstentions. As the next motion for a resolution, number 20, has been negotiated with the motion for a resolution number 2 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, we will vote on the compromise at the end. We now vote on resolution No 21. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 53, with 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution number 22. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 73 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. Now, let's move on to resolution number... excuse me. Now, already... As resolution 23 has been negotiated with the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, we will vote for it at the end. And on the 24th, as we said at first, she's been eliminated. We shall therefore proceed to vote on the motions for resolutions of the Republican Parliamentary Group. We shall begin by voting on motion for resolution No 26. The 26th of the Republican Parliamentary Group, with the correction of errors presented, that affects the 1 letter point to. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution, on 26, was adopted by 73 votes to 57, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No 27. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 74 votes to 56, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 28. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 61 votes to 57, with 12 abstentions. Now proceed to vote on the compromise proposals. First of all, we will vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution No. 1 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress and the proposals for resolution Nos. 4 and 9 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, including the correction of errors affecting point 11. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to one, with 61 abstentions. Let us now vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution No. 2 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, and the proposal for resolution No. 20 of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 87 votes to 4, with 39 abstentions. Let us now vote on the compromise proposal between the resolution No. 8 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, with the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress. The vote begins. This compromise was adopted by 69 votes to one, with 60 abstentions. Let us now vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution number 12 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem and the proposal for resolution number 1 of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 86 votes in favour, against and 44 abstentions. We now vote on the proposal for a compromise between the proposal for resolution number 23, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, with the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 73 votes to 53, with 4 abstentions. We are voting, now, to finalize, the compromise proposal on the motion for resolution number 25, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, with the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. The vote begins. This deal... there's been a draw. 65 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. So, let's go back to voting. The vote begins. The same coat has been produced again. Therefore, we shall proceed to vote for the third time on this transaction. The vote begins. In the event of a third time a coat of arms has been produced, and since the majority have not sunk, this transaction is rejected. There are no more votes. Therefore, the session rises.
