ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Before we begin with the order of the day, I must say that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules, I remember the following voting delegations: that of the deputies Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva and Antoni Comín, who have delegated their vote to Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Parliamentary Group Republicà – with a precision here: they informed the Board of Spokespersons that the vote of Mr Toni Comín would not be exercised today – and of the deputies Jordi Sànchez, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull and Carles Puigdemont, who have delegated their vote to Mrs Elsa Artadi, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Juntes per Catalunya. Yes, Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.2.0	On a point of order relating to these voting delegations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.3.0	Say, Mr. Fernández; thirty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.4.0	Just to move that, indeed, from the moment that Mr Comin announces that he will not exercise that delegation of vote, one of the two risks on the table disappears, and is that the agreements of this plenary were declared null and void. But we must transfer and transfer to you, President, that the other risk, from the moment the delegation of vote is maintained, from an administrative point of view, does not disappear, and that is that those people, those members of the Bureau who have allowed this situation could continue to incur a crime of prevarication. And it is our obligation to transfer this circumstance to the President of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.5.0	All right, Mr. Fernández. Excuse me, I have forgotten, apart from the delegations, the delegation of MP Najat Driuech, who also delegates his vote to Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Procedure relating to the General Accounts for 2014]] [[257-00002/11]] Let us move on to the first item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Commission of the Union of Auditors on the procedure relating to the General Account of 2014. In order to present it, in any case, the illustrious lord will have the word... [[Funnel veils]] – please, silence –, the illustrious Lord Jaume Amat, major syndic. Allow me, on behalf of the chamber, to greet you, and, obviously, also all the members of the Union of Accounts, who are accompanying us today. Thank you very much. I, always welcome you. In accordance with Rule 185.5 of the Rules of Procedure, this presentation of the report on the General Accounts is initiated, as we say, by the distinguished Mr Jaume Amat, the major syndicate of the Union of Accounts, and there will then be an intervention for each parliamentary group for a period of two minutes for each group. Mr. Syndic Major, whenever you want. The major syndic of the Union of Accounts ( Jaume Amat i Reyero ) Thank you very much, very honorable President. Many honourable Speakers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, appear before this House to present the Report of the Union of Accounts on the General Accounts of the Generality corresponding to the financial year 2014, in accordance with Article 185 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Now I'll explain why I'm presenting 2014. This report was approved by the plenum of the union on November 16, 2016 – that is to say, almost two years ago we approved it – acting as putting the syndicate speaking to you today. This report entered Parliament on February 10, 2017. At hours of the day, the ple of the union also approved, on September 13, 2017, the Report 17/2017, corresponding to the 2015 General Account, which entered this chamber on November 15 of the year 17, of the year passed. This report, the one from 2015, remains pending that the Commission of the Union, which is not meeting since July of last year, can prepare the opinion that it will have to bring to this plenary, once discussed, if to the Members and Members it seems good, approve it, or not, then, the opinion; it is to say that we are still in the process and for this reason we are in 2014. The union is about to approve the 2016 General Account Report and, in July of this year, the General Intervention of the Generality will withdraw from us the 2017 General Account, which is only six months after closing the year, so that we have this year in order to be able to see the 17th. I say to put the 2014 General Account in its place, that, as you all think, we are at 18; why are we talking about the 14th? The reason, that's not an excuse, is this. The Generality General Account, in addition to Article 80 of the Finance Act, Article 80, has effects of 2014– after I say that from the 17th there is a change–, is formed for the Generality General Account, the Account of the autonomous entities of the administrative nature and the Account of the managing entities of the social security. To these three accounts, which are formulated and presented by the Generality through the General Intervention of the Generality, the union must add, add to these accounts, the accounts of the four provincial deputies, the accounts of the autonomous entities of commercial, industrial, financial and financial character, the accounts of public enterprises and the accounts of foundations and consortia which fall under the assumptions. This structure – which has been criticized by the union for not following a normal structure for years now, where the account should be the only one and the union, rather than joining, in the account, what it should do is to control it completely – has changed. It is to say, from the 17th, with a modification to the later law accompanying the assumptions, that it has changed, this structure, bring from the structure the accounts of the provincial deputies – that still there, from the first state of autonomy, that the history tells us that it was the policy of the Government of the Generality, and for this reason it was still in the General Account of the Generality – and by lying to what would be a single account, where the intervention presents the sencer account and the taxation does what it has to do, that it is to control the whole sencer account of the Generality. That said, what is the purpose of this report? The objective is to verify the adequacy of the economic information and to finance all accounts in accordance with the accounting principles, and also the compliment of legality, and thus to facilitate approval by this Parliament, which is what you will do today, if you think it is appropriate, of the general account, in this case, of the financial year 2014. In the introduction to this report, the union continues to express what I have said to you so far: the observations and limitations in the general account preparation process and the way in which this is to be gathered into a_only account the different accounts that are not required of the different entities subject to taxation. Out of the question and out of the presupposition, there are public universities and businesses that depend on the university world. These are neither in the presuppost nor in the general account. There is also a limitation that, in addition, a year later than the day, and I recognize that it is difficult to complete, that it is that the operational audits or the manager of the retout accounts are impossible to do by this entity at the time when the account does not add the supporting memoranda of costs and returns of the public services. That is to say, while there are no costs and returns from the activity done, we, like the union, cannot analyse the viability, or not, of these results. It's a complex topic I understand, but we're going back to our report every year with this serious memory. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , more than simply, it is the memory necessary to be able to present, together with the accounting and legal analysis, the third pot of any public audit, which is the audit of objectives or results. Entering directly into what would be the report of the general account for 2014, in the second paragraph, where there is the summary of the conclusions, it is said, and the text reads: "According to the object, the abstract and the methodology used, the opinion of the union is that, except for the possible effects of the limitations and the effects of the facts described in the observations, the general account expressed in all significant aspects, the faithful image of the assets and the financial situation of the Generalitat de Catalunya at 31 December 2014, and also the results of the performance flows and the budgetary liquidation corresponding, according to the applicable standard mark and with the accounting principles and criteria contained therein. This is the opinion of the general account, which sets out what would be the general conclusion of this report. Together with this opinion, the report presents twenty-four observations. A good part of these observations are repetitive, i.e., except four out of nine, they are either the same, updating them with data, or partially modified, but they are kept year after year. This means that work remains to be done; that is to say, in the compliment of these observations there are questions, some of the better, other criteria, one can get to the point that we do not agree with the criteria of who has made the account, and others of the better, some understand that complex, like the one that is giving the costs, that one of the observations is that it does not add to it, it does not add to the memory of costs and results, but that, well, we continue to say that this is the way to be done. That is why there are many observations that are repeated years ago. Also in the report, apart from its conclusions, we add to the improvements introduced respect to the previous report. I will not read them; there are four general bests respect the report of the 2013 general account, which is the previous to which I am now presenting. As a summary of the most outstanding observations, of these twenty-seven observations, I will read those we believe can represent the total of the twenty-seven. The Catalan legislation, for which it does for the financial year 2014, followed without regularity the need to present a consolidated account, so that it gave before, with the economic and financial activity of the Catalan public sector; the need for financing of the financial year 2014 has been of 5,406_million euros, according to the calculations of the General Intervention of the State, of the IGAE, and they have assumed a deficit of 2.75 of the GDP of Catalonia, before the objective of '1, it is to say that it did not achieve the objective of '1, but it exceeded, from '1 to 2,75, and neither in 2014 did the Generalitat..., it failed or did not complete the objectives of public debt and of the rule of expenditure, as it explains. The inversion executed and not imputed from the 2014_presupposition was estimated at about 120,17_million euros, which amounts to 12,6_per_cent less than 13. This non-executed reversal is the investments that are funded year by year by systems..., for which alternative financing systems are called – that we have not talked about every time we present it – and that have no effect on the presuppositional comptability but on the calculation of the deficit not to finance. So, that's why we highlight it, since this system, which since 2009, has to be said, is not used, is to say..., but logically, because it's a fetal reversal, it spills the fact that the deficit is growing, and it's not supposed to be so much, because it's accounted for at the time they are paid, not at the time the reversal takes place. These are 120_million euros, which in previous years was much higher, the xifra; it went down. The use of alternative financing systems in the past years, I suppose, following the same theme as before, the payment of fees and relatedloggers..., which is accounting, linked to the current expenditure chapter of the assumption. This expenditure compromises much the credit arrangement, which is also assigned to cope with operating expenses, as the return of these financing operations is done for the same budget heading of current expenditure, for which also the financing expenses are paid; as the first ones are pending, they extend the margin that there is in order to be able to pay the financing expenses. They have been observed – there are some, I will not highlight them – some registration criteria pending to solve, with presuppositional applications, as detailed to the dispatch. The General Administration of the Generality has recognised three outstanding receivables in concept of the tax on credit entity deposits amounting to EUR 686_million. The Constitutional Court will declare no such charge. In 2014, what we say, these rights are about to be annulled; we're talking about 2014. The expenditure of the Administration of the Generality, the Cat Salut, the ICS and the ICASS carried out during the fiscal year 2014 and not accounted for presumably insanely of 2,917_million euros. In the previous fiscal year, the expenditure recognized and transferred was 2,310. That's what's said the expense carried over, that's to say, it's from the year, but the one that counted the next year, it's to say that it's gone from one year to the next; the year passed is gone 2,310 and the 14 is gone 2,917. The presented consolidated tributary romant state does not distinguish the affected romant from the unaffected. Even the decrease of a 52_per_cent respects the previous exercise, we still have a negative Romanesque of 2,007_million euros, which can generate – and so we say a year back – tensions of treasuries. The live risk of the guarantees granted at 31 December 2014 amounted to EUR 3,851 million. This supposes a higher xifra of downstream lower than the previous years; it has dropped almost 13_per_cent compared to the previous year. And on the 15th and the 16th, which we already have, we see it going down, the rhythm of the back. The Administration of the Generality, in 2014, continued to apply the General Plan of Public comptability approved in 1996. What we say..., what we say in this report is that this comptability plan should be adapted to the state's public comptability plan approved in 2010. That's already done. That is to say, the year 2014 was not there; now we already have a new plan of public comptability, approved 2017. Then, now, that, by 2017, we won't say. We will follow it in 2015 and 2016, because the comptability plan was not yet there. 2017..., is the problem of this time gap between the analyzed exercise and the submitted report. But it's true that this is already solved. The analysis of real estate transactions carried out during 2014– this is a novelty of this year – evidence that in twelve of the transactions of sale of real estate of that year the amount awarded was below the purchase cost. With this, these series respect the new observations of 2013 or those we thought could be highlighted. Before these remarks, what does the union say? The trade union, together with each year, calls for the necessary measures to be taken to address the observations and deficiencies exposed, especially the applicants year to year, as well as for those responsible to report on the corrective measures taken to complete these recommendations. As a result of this statement, the trade union made a manifest that it continues to observe the delicate financial situation of the Generalitat on 31 December 2014 for which it makes the needy of financing, the romant of treasuries and the pro bono negatius, the high debt financing and the burden that triggers the commitments of expenditure of futures. If we analyze the most important figures that are highlighted in 2014..., and then, as long as we already have the 15th and 16th information, even though they are not on the 2014 report, I will try to place them in the corresponding place. The consolidated budgetary result in 2014, as I said before, presented a deficit not to finance 3,709_million euros. These 3,709_million euros come together in 2013, which we had 3,203; 2015 is up to 5,321, but 2016 is down to 1,669. I mean, the deficit trend is this. The current and consolidated financial debt for the entire scope of the Administration of the Generality and of the managing entities was, at the end of 2014, 54,699_million euros, with an increase of 14_per_cent compared to the previous year. The debt grew: the 14th we had 54,699; the 15th... – to see, I don't want to be wrong..., where do I have it? [[pause]] – 15 in we have 61.802, and 16, 65,533. The debt grew, because... but the most important thing, apart from growing, is to see if the trend in the percentage of growth is higher or lower. The total number of people working throughout the perimeter at 31 December 2014 was 124,105, with a total remuneration of €4,562_million. During 2014, the Generalitat continued to use different extraordinary financing mechanisms created for the Spanish State, the detail of 2014, of which it was used, it was: in payment to suppliers, which is one of the ways, it was used 2,309_million euros; in the FLA, the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, it was used 7,914_million euros. In total, in 2014 it was used, with this type of financing, 10,223_million euros. During the 14th, 23,733 contracts were awarded, with an award value of 1,534_millions, assuming an increase of 5 and 5.14_per_cent, compared to the previous year. The accounts of the autonomous entities of managed character include the accounts of the dinosaur entities, four smaller than 2013. We saw that the entities went down with this, say, tendency to analyze the efficiency of each of the entities and see the possibility of going down; respect to the 13 there are four autonomous entities less. And of all those we've presented, of these dinosaurs, they all have... they've presented it within the word and with all the information required for the law. The entities, which are not administrative, those which I said at the beginning that the union joins in the Generality account, continue to be reduced in a more remarkable way than the others, with these measures of cost containment. There were 173 in 2013 and 160 in 2014; if we follow 15 and 16 we see that they have been reduced, these entities. Follow him, we've gone from 173 to 160. The report, as the internal procedure of the trade union, was approved a time-long analysis and answered the submissions, which are also part of this report. The report shall be accompanied by a private vote. I will also say, up to the past time, that the Union of Accounts, respects the 2014 financial year and respects the scope of entities or of the subjective entities that are in the account, has already approved twenty-one individual taxation reports from entities or from groups of expenditure that are in this report of 14. That is to say, there has been one more approval for the same exercise in 2014. I would like to conclude, like every year, by reiterating the need to resolve the observations that we have made a year later in the general account and that, despite the limitations on the resources of this union, we are still working to improve our work and what we need to do and, among these improvements, to go beyond what is possible the current deadlines for the submission of reports. That's it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.6.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Now it's the turn of parliamentary groups. We'll start with the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, it's the turn of Mr. José María Cano. [[Pause. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.7.0	For a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.8.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.9.0	It is necessary to pass the dark spot that stood before the benches of my formation, because we do not have to have an empty bench and with a dark spot. I removed it before, because the syndic's intervention had already begun, but now that nine interventions are already under way and another Member has remained, this place does not represent anyone, there is no government... Here there are Members of the bench who have chosen to do this, and we respect it, but what we do not want is to have a groceries in front of our bench and which does not represent anyone at all. So, either he's gone, or we're going to drag him in.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.10.0	No, no, you're not bringing anything, Mr. Carrizosa, because I'm asking you not to turn this into a pot of grills or a school floor. [[Greetings.]] They're asking for this – they're asking for this. Don't ask them: I ask them. Anyway, it's the government bench. I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.11.0	There's no one there. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.12.0	Let me talk to you, please? Thank you. It's the government's bench. He's put this place down, like there are other places in other places. Other times, symbols have been placed on these escons. I'm asking them, I insist, I'm asking them not to turn this into a school floor. We'll do the debate. [[remorse of the voice]] ...we'll do the debate, we'll do the... [[Widow's remorse.]] Can you let me talk another time, or do I suspend the ple? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen to me, if you don't know how to respect this institution and the President of Parliament, I've been forced to call them attention...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.13.0	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.14.0	It's the first time I've heard it from you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Exactly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.15.0	Respect the laws and respect all Members; that is what this House should do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.16.0	...that's not a pot of grills, not a theater, not a school floor, Mr. Carrizosa. We will finish this debate, and then I will talk to the parliamentary groups, because I will not allow this to be converted into a school floor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.17.0	Well, like...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.18.0	Let's finish this debate, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.19.0	Well, as we agree with the President not to turn this into a pati d'école and we have pulled this loop and another Member has put it back, we are going to pull it back into this very act. [[The orator removes the groceries from the government bench. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.20.0	Mr. Carrizosa... Mr. Carrizosa... [[Greetings.]] If you let me... if you let the Speaker of Parliament speak... Mr Carrizosa, first of all, you are none to draw symbols from the escons of this Ple. [[Widow's remorse.]] You're no one to do it. So, as I said, I demand that you put the place back where it was. [[relays]] I'm asking you to put the place back where it was... [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] I demand that you put the place back where it was and, I said, we will finish this debate and talk to the parliamentary groups. In any case, I call your attention, and, if not, I have been forced to suspend the Ple. I went back to putting the place where it was. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres said: «No.]] And I gave it... back to the place where it was or delivered the maids of the chamber. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres gets up to talk.]] Mr. Carrizosa, you don't have the word – you don't have the word. I didn't give him the word – I didn't give him the word. Put the place back down, or at this point I suspend the Ple and call them to order. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm suspending the plenary and I'm talking... [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]] Mr. Fernández, I just suspended the Ple.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.21.0	Thanks, Members, Members, Members of the Union of Accounts, we follow..., resume the plenary and resume the debate on the opinion of the Commission of the Union of Accounts on the procedure relating to the General Account of 2014. At the time of the temporary suspension of the plenary, the spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. José María Cano, had the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.22.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputies, team of the Union of Accounts and public that accompanies us today in this presentation of the report of the general account of the Generalitat of Catalonia for 2014. Today we channel it through this report, it is the final photo, the result of the management of public money made by the Government of the Generalitat that year. We analyze if the final photo that shows us..., if that final photo shows us the economic-financial reality resulting from the government's management of the resources that are of all Catalans. And, as everyone, we must demand that our rulers manage them and account for their management in a scrupulously transparent manner. Unfortunately, however, I have already told you that this is not the conclusion that is reached after a careful reading of the report we are debating today, because the union warns you, year after year, of irregularities and the lack of transparency of the accounts they present. The report clearly shows us that they were not a serious government dedicated to managing this autonomy by thinking of the general interest, the common good and the well-being of citizens. It shows us that they were opaque politicians with opaque budgets and presented opaque accounts. The union warns of the lack of transparency detailing twenty-eight alerts, twenty-eight limitations on the content of the accounts they present. And, at the same time, it gives a general opinion: the union is shocked by the evidence that they have caused us to face a disastrous and desperate financial situation. What I do see is that you have become accustomed to the union of accounts pulling out their colors with their report every year. I guess it's once a year and that bad drink can happen; once a year they come to this atrium and have a bad time. Once a year they put themselves in cynical mode and fill their mouths saying that they consider the labor of the union indispensable, that they thank with all heart their diligence, that they are very aware of the lack of resources and, how not – their star phrase – that they would work as if there were no tomorrow in body and soul and behave well next year. And when the bad weather is over, they say to them, "Goodbye, until the year you see, that we will say the same thing again. I think you will agree with me that the best and only way to thank the work of the Union of Accounts is to value its work, it is to heed its recommendations, because it is time to stop thanking to comply with the recommendations. But let's go to the source. What motivates them to have such a lack of transparency, such a lack of rigour in accountability to citizens? I answer you that it is only an attempt to make up accounting years of government of the Generalitat that have only one concern, have only one goal, have only one obsession: to separate us from the rest of Spain and to get us out of Europe. And this final photo of the implementation of the 2014 budget is a faithful reflection of that carelessness, a faithful reflection of not dealing with the real problems of citizenship. In 2014, these budgets announced them as the latest autonomous budgets, the 9-N budgets. And with that excuse they stop dealing with the rest of the issues: they don't deal with the waiting lists of the unit, they don't deal with unemployment, they don't deal with legal security for economic operators, they don't deal with promoting innovation and research, and they don't deal with the self-employed or the economy. However, they do: they do other things. There are issues that worry them and a lot. They are concerned about keeping their shingles, they are concerned about financing their useless state structures, and as considered by the Government of the Best, they are also responsible for ensuring that there is a rich list of public posts put to their finger, a hundred grateful milleurists. But I tell you that while you recreate yourselves in your impossible goals, it is citizenship that suffers, that sees your problems get worse. A citizen who suffers from cuts, who continues to suffer the largest waiting lists in dependence throughout Spain; with families who continue to suffer from their children going to schools in barracks; with autonomous ones who continue to suffer to lift the blind every day. For the citizens, I assure them that their story, their epic does not solve any of their problems; they are victims of their eternal process. And the failure to deal with the real problems, the failure to carry out the necessary structural reforms, the failure to rationalize spending, the failure to eliminate doubles and triples of the Administration, the spending of the budget on chiringuitos and trust charges, has led us to the sad photo that reflects this report; photo that shames them and they try to camouflage and adulterate, because that photo is the photo of the bankruptcy of our economy, it is the photo of the cuts in services, it is the photo of an unsustainable public debt, it is the photo of the disorderly fiscal burden that Catalans bear. This report is framed within the period 2010-2015, during which they imposed on our autonomous community the most antisocial cuts of all its Spanish democratic stage: cuts above 26_per_cent in social policies, with special cruelty in health, where the cuts were placed above 31_per_cent; cuts where the most harmed, as always, have been the least have. A community in which the middle and working class, one of the most punished by the crisis, bears by far the highest taxes in all of Spain; the autonomous community that has more own taxes. And as a result of their carelessness they made decisions to the desperate that led them to missell the heritage of the Generalitat. The report of the Union of Accounts warns us that, in 2014, in order to obtain extraordinary income, they sold eighteen properties, of which 75_per_cent sold them to rent the properties at gold price to the new owners. And in 80_per_cent of the cases they lost money by selling those below their acquisition cost, which led to that decision's revenue being a disaster. Only 30_percent of the forecast was collected: of the EUR 1,000_million budgeted, only 330 were obtained. They also used desperate financial engineering to mortgage the future of the Generalitat's arks, as the particular vote in the syndic's report, Mr Jordi Pons Novell, warns. They abused public-private partnerships with the aim of financing infrastructure, operations that are having a high cost to citizens. And at the end of these types of contracts, what really happens is that the friends end up getting high profits if the business goes well, and, if it goes wrong, the Administration bears the losses. And with all that improvisation and carelessness I've described to you, the only thing that really grows in Catalonia is public debt. The report warns that public debt stood at almost €56,500_million at the end of 2014. But at the moment it is already above the €77,500_million; that is, taking into account the population of our community, it is equivalent to the fact that each Catalan bears €10,500_euro in public debt. And in the face of this disastrous financial-economic situation that they have left us, what have they done? They tried to present the makeup accounts. They accounted for taxes, which were declared void by the Constitutional Court, which will never be charged. Bills passed from one year to the next when they did not have a budget line. And as a colophon, by not dealing with the real problems, all that excessive effort you made to make up the final photo, all those slogans that you have deployed all this time talking about the lack of income, became the absolutest of the silences when it came to accounting for your management result. They had no interest in including in the general account a supporting memorandum, did not justify the costs of the services, did not justify whether or not they met the objectives they had planned. In short: this is one more picture of the economic-financial ruin that has left us this process. I think it's about time they landed in reality. And it is also time to implement the indications, recommendations of the report that we are discussing today. Finally, I do not want to finish my speech without thanking the team of the Union of Accounts for their work. In this case, for all that has been said, our group will abstain. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.23.0	Thank you, Mr. Cano. For the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Narcis Clara.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.24.0	Mr President... Syndic Major, syndics and rest of the people of the Union of Accounts, ladies and gentlemen deputies, of entry, would like to aggravate the work developed for the union as an external auditor of the accounts, of the economic management and of the efficiency control of the Generality, of the local authorities and of the rest of the public sector of Catalonia. The feta work has been, donated the large volume of processed data, exhaustive, detailed and understanding. Hence our confidence in the major syndicate and the rest of the union members. Before entering the list of recommendations and analysis of the main results of the procedure, I would like to recall that, at the 10.2 session of the Commission of the Union of Accounts of the previous legislature, the 24/2016 Report of the Union of Accounts was approved unanimously on the General Accounts corresponding to 2014. The opinion of the union is that – and I quote textually – « the general account expresses, in all significant aspects, the faithful image of the assets of the financial situation of the Government of Catalonia, on 31 December 2014. And also the results, the cash flows and the budgetary settlement corresponding to the annual exercise completed on that date, according to the applicable standard of financial information and, in particular, the accounting principles and criteria contained therein. The union certifies that there have been improvements in the previous exercise, which I will mention: the General Intervention of the Government of Catalonia has presented, from the consolidated states, the balance and the account of the aggregate economic return; the changes in credit with expandable parties do not affect the 2014 estabilitative objective; the Cat Salut has counted the variations in the forecasts of the assumption of entry; the General Intervention of the Government of Catalonia has included a departure on resources and pending disputes in the memory of the General Administration of the General Administration of Catalonia, and, finally, it has improved the information presented in the memoir of the Cat Salut, of the Catalan Institute of Health and of the Catalan Institute of Assistance and Social Services. Naturally, they provide a full report on the account of the General Administration of the Government of Catalonia, of the autonomous entities of administrative character, of the managing entities of social security, of the autonomous entities of commercial, industrial, financial or analytic character, of the general accounts of the provincial and public enterprises, the union makes a series of observations and recommendations. An important part of which, also, are recurrent from previous exercises and, moreover, most correspond to questions related to regulations and procedures. The General Intervention of the Generality has informed me that since the Generality have been implementing the recommendations of the union and that at hours of this time many of them have been corrected. For all this, I will only comment on some of those that I consider most relevant at the economic level. The first is that the General Administration of the Government of Catalonia has recognized rights settled pending collection in concept of the tax on deposits in credit entities for 685.053_millions. All of you, in a sense of doubt, are in the loop that the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional and no such imposition. This amount, logically, will not be charged, and therefore, fewer tickets to go to social policies. The second refers to the financing needs of the financial year 2014, which have been 5,406_millions, which means a deficit of 2.75_percent of GDP. This value has surpassed the threshold of '1_per_cent established for the Council of Ministers. In fact, the same syndic, in an intervention to the Commission of the Union of Accounts, warned of the delicate financial situation of the Generalitat on 31 December 2014, especially that which makes reference to the Romanesque of Tresoría, to the propos negatius and to the high debt. The third is the compliment of the public debt target. According to the Banc d'Espanya, the debt of Catalonia at 31 December 2014 represents 32.8 of its gross domestic product, only a 0.1_per_cent more than the value, a revised amount, which was fixed by the Council of Ministers, i.e. an increment of 0.3_per_cent over the prefixed value. Finally, I will refer to the expenditure rule. According to the report of the Ministry of Public Administration and History, Catalonia 2014 recorded an increase of 2.5_percent of the expenditure level in relation to the previous exercise, force per damunt– must recognize it – of the 1.5_per_cent, reference rate of the average term GDP of the Spanish economy established at the maximum value. It won't surprise you that I claim that these deviations respect the values set for the Government of the State are strongly correlated with the power structure designed for the State. Based on these data, an independent observer could deduce at a first moment that it was managed by the Government of Catalonia is inefficient. Now, after a more detailed analysis, it would be agreed that Catalonia has the best universities in the State, with an internationalized and competitive economy, has the highest rate of exports in the State and, therefore, concludes that there is a clear contradiction between these two realities. A more complete and detailed study would show that Catalonia every year produces a terratremol financing. Like any other simile, this also has its limitations: it is not about, as in the case of geological terratremols, an unpredictable phenomenon. At the present time it is only possible to determine the probability of a landform of a certain magnitude occurring in a given period of time, leaving aside the landforms induced by human activity, as the citizens of the lands of the Jews, victims of the Castor project, well know. So, this land is financed by producing with a perfect annual periodicity. Logically, the Government of Catalonia, which is aware of the fact, is prepared and minimizes the negative effects, but even so, the magnitude of the financing movement makes it impossible to cancel its repercussions. Obviously, I'm referring to the tax deficit. Last year, the Department of Vice-Presidents and Economics and History published, with data provided for the Ministry of Hisenda, that the fiscal deficit in 2014 crazy 16.570_millions, which represents an 8.4_percent of Catalonia's GDP. Catalonia is the third autonomous community that generates the most resources and fourteen in real waste resources. Do you remember the principle of ordinaryity? This neglect compromises people's services and the competitiveness of the economy. If we talk about the expenditure rule, it turns out that between 2010 and 2016 the Central Administration increased it by 6,5_per_cent and, in change, Catalonia had to reduce it by 17,3_per_cent. It does not seem that the values defined for the ministry are very fair. Let's go back to the tax deficit. You will ask, perhaps, what represents an 8,4_percent of GDP, of what order of magnitude are we talking about. Well, that's roughly the same amount that was allocated in 2014 to social spending. Therefore, with this amount it could double the assumption and thus reach the European standard. And the same one that the Generalitat allocated last year, 2017, to social expenditure, Education and Universities and Work, Social Affairs and Families. If it was an exceptional fact, it could be even more consumable, but it is not; it produces one year the other without any darkness. Explain using more graphic terms: you can imagine a stream of money flowing from Catalonia in a south-west-westerly direction, roughly with a 40_million-dollar bill per day. In two weeks of fiscal deficit we could eliminate all prefabricated modules of educational centres and build new schools and institutes. In three days we'll pay for a new hospital like the Moisès Broggi. Lowering university taxes a 30_per_cent has a cost of around 47_million, that is, a day of fiscal deficit. Are we talking about inversions? Without a fiscal deficit, the anonymous Zapatero de Rodalies plan would be completed in four_months; in change, at the current rate will not be until 2067. This deficit data offers all the guarantees. It could be said – yes, it is true – that other deficiency values have been published using other methodologies, with a result of 11,590 and 9,892_millions. This is a 70_per_cent and a 60_per_cent, respectively, of the reference value that the consultancy publishes. With these values, Broggi Hospital would be paid in four days and five hours, and four days and two hours respectively. It follows that even if they move us in the low-band of predictions, the result is scandalous.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.25.0	Mr. Clara, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.26.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.27.0	Thank you, Mr. Clara. It is the turn, on the part of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs. Naomi Llaurado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.28.0	Thank you very much, President. President, Chief Syndicate, Members of the Union of Auditors, Members and Members, first of all, apologize to the Chief Syndicate for the situation we had to live before the suspension of the plenary. I suppose it doesn't depend on an institutional difference that we have to live. I also want to say that I regret that the presentation of this report could not be carried out with the presence of President Forcadell, who at the time was able to deliver the report, neither of the Vice President and Councillor of Economy, Oriol Junqueras, nor of the rest of the members of the Government, nor of the deputies and deputies... [[Greetings.]] Neither Members nor Members who today are found in an unjust pre-trial detention or exiles. This situation is not normal in a democratic country, and we'll make it happen until I get home. Nor is it normal that it is done in the absence of a government the members of which have been appointed by the President of the Generality, but since the Government of the State they have not wanted to publish them, even if it is an act in question. In the second place, I want to thank and appreciate very positively the task carried out, one more year, for the union. The presentation of this report by the trade union in front of this House is one of the relevant procedures in place, because the delegation of this report brings to an end the external taxation of the accounts, economic management and the financial control of the Generality. One of the most important functions of this Parliament is, therefore, the control function. On previous occasions there has been a question about the effectiveness of this control function, due to the time elapsed between the closure of accounts and the debate in the plenary of this report. In this sense, we find an important improvement that today we are discussing this report corresponding to 2014, but that the 2015 report, as said before the Chief Executive Officer, has already been sent to the committee. Having analysed the report, our group will vote in favour of adopting the opinion proposing to approve the general account and the report of the trade union, as well as urging to follow its recommendations, since, as indicated, the general account expresses the faithful image of the assets and the financial situation of the Generalitat at 31 December 2014 and why it is appropriate to the applicable law. That said, as the report indicates that many of the recommendations are recurrent in other exercises, I would like to focus on some observations that have either been expanded or were not included in the 2013 exercise. I would also like to highlight the references to the General Intervention included at the end of the report, where important replies are made to the different observations which, notwithstanding this, are not yet reflected in the 2014 accounts; the most important, the amendment, to which the Chief Executive also refers, of Articles 80 and 81 of the Public Finance Act, through the Law on Financing Measures for 2017, in order to adapt to the new accounting reality of the Public Administration and to consolidate the budgetary and financial information of the public sector. Thus, even though we will not begin to see until we have the 2017 report, in the last legislature the most substantial requests of the syndicate have been answered, amending the Public Finance Act to consolidate the presuppositional information of the entire public sector and to homogenize the accounting balances, as well as eliminating the need to combine the assumptions of the deputies with that of the Generality, or approving a new general plan of comptability that has to deploy its effects in the fiscal year 2018. Already in the observations, the five, which has been enlarged, states that the financing needs of the financial year 2014 have been 5,406_million euros. They represent a deficit of 2.75_percent of Catalonia's regional GDP, before the target set for 1_percent. In recent years, the Ministry of Health has set very strict deficit limits for autonomous communities, which do not correspond to the same principles of the Organic Presuppositional Enabling Law and, if it is very important to complete the presuppositional enabling objectives, it is also important to ensure that basic services are provided to citizens. May I remind you of the situation in which we found ourselves in 2014. After the assumptions of 2010, 2011, 2012, extended to 2013, which aimed to balance the retail accounts, the assumptions of 2014 represent a point and apart from where, despite a fall of 2,000_million euros in admissions, it is decided not to retail more at the expense and increase the admissions, reducing the sales of assets to which the representative of Ciutadans refers and reforming the inheritance tax and donations, increasing the water channel or the channel to the outlet of residues; new inputs that require more than higher yields and punishing harmful attitudes towards the environment. Maintaining the overall expenditure in 2014 increased the minimum income for inclusion to EUR 173_million, EUR 42_million of scholarships and financed a special programme against child poverty of EUR 3_million. Inadequate compromises for the emergency situation that was experienced in 2014, but that marked a turn, with a Generality committed to maintaining the state of welfare and increasing the entries in retail accounts. And, yes, the Spanish Government has also had to assume the deficit targets for the European Union, but it has done so with a very uneven distribution of charges between public administrations. The State has imposed the largest share of the deficit on autonomous communities, while they are the ones who have the skills to sustain the welfare state, social services and social cohesion. The Generality – it is said in the report – has also incomplete the objectives of public debt and the expenditure rule. This is where we can observe how the direction driven from the Left to consolidate spending and increase tickets has donated its fruits. The financial situation of the Generalitat in 2014 contrasts with how Vice President Junqueras left them, closing 2017 with a primary structural surplus and a deficit of 0.58_per_cent, complementing the target of 0.6_per_cent that was assigned for 2017. A primary surplus that was 140_million euros on September 15th, when Montoro decided to intervene the Generality's accounts with the argument that they threatened the presuppositional instability, an accusation that proved to be unfounded. And we're not just financially improved, also economically. It has also been published that the Generality has awarded Hard Rock permission for the installation and operation of the CRT, a much awaited news to the territories of Camp Tarragona. For what it does to the new observations, it refers to the incorrect recognition of rights settled pending collection, in concept of the tax on deposits in credit institutions, for an import of 685.53_million euros. Indeed, the Constitutional Court, on May 2015, declared unconstitutional and no tax. Therefore, the rights pending collection were not collected and must be cancelled. In this sense, the State has again obstructed another initiative of the Generality to get us tickets and guarantee the state of welfare. It's not the only input that's obstructed this legislature. The Constitutional Court also suspended the tax on the production of nuclear power, which would have represented 60_million euros per year, and the tax on large establishments, which would have represented 20_million euros per year. Finally, the union continues to see the delicate situation financed in 2014. Certainly, it was delicate; because, in the band of an unjust financing model that the State has systematically obstructed all of the Generality's initiatives to get us tickets or that it is not fulfilling commitments as with the Law of Dependency, there is also a flagrant fiscal deficit. Thus, recognised for the same Minister Montoro at the end of last year, the fiscal deficit of Catalonia with the State was 9,892_million euros, a 5_percent of GDP, to which Junts' company for Catalonia also refers. The fiscal deficit is still higher if we take into account the method of monetary flows, and would be 16.570_million euros, 8.4_percent of GDP. Finally, I refer to the particular vote of one of the syndics who warns of the need to evaluate public-private collaboration forms; an observation that is ours and in which important advances have already been made. The Tax Measures Act 2017 represents an important leap in taxing public-private collaboration. All right, all right, Thanks, again, to the Union of Accounts for its work. We note that the 2014 account is better than the 2013 account. We hope that 2015 will continue to move forward in the same direction, even though we know that we will not see the gains until beyond 2017, when the performance of the Department of Economics, led by Vice President Junqueras, has unlocked necessary and repeatedly demanded reforms in the union reports. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.29.0	Thank you, Mrs. Llaurado. It is now the return of Mr Ordeig to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.30.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, Members, Members, with the permission of the President, who has neglected it, I will begin by congratulating Deputy Najat Driuech on her motherhood. [[Greetings.]] And also regret some disqualifications and some insults, which are qualified for themselves, and give him a hug, probably on behalf of the whole chamber, and tell him we're next to him. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Okay. MPs, MPs, second place, I don't know if this will wake up so unanimously, but I would also like to talk, also make reference, before entering the syndic's report, to a theme, I think, very important that I don't..., has gone as far as points in this plenary, and I think we have to say. And it is that, unfortunately, therefore, we are the river and we are a disgraceful run of Europe for the judgment of the Gürtel case in which they condemned the Government of the People's Party, the People's Party, for corrupt practices. And, therefore, I believe that today is more necessary than ever to make out the People's Party government, because..., not just for the retail, not just for the policies of the drains in a particularly difficult time, but above all because they are a danger to Catalonia and the conjunction of the State. And many of the problems that the union says we have in this report to Parliament's finances are solved with a negotiation and with one government to the other band that you want to listen to. And one last request to Ciutadans's company: we would appreciate it if you didn't look at the right side this time, that you didn't look to hold the corruption of the People's Party, and that now it does – now it does – make a change and raise a motion of censure to start a new stage, here and there. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] For another band, a thank you to the union, to their entire team, to the major syndicate for the report, for the work they do throughout the year. To claim, of course, sometimes the lack of resources they have to try to go deeper into some complex issues. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançaçar, we give recollection to the work that the union does, but also, as always, we have a political reflection, also, of the accounts that we are debating in 2014, that have passed many things, immersed in full in the economic crisis and all its consequences, as well as, then, we will have an accounting reflection, a more technical reflection, of which the report of 2014. Regret that we are having a debate four years late, that many of the fears that are already commented are obsolete, as they have said. Regret that the 15th report cannot be made, that it is also done and entered; that we cannot make a joint debate, certainly with more perspective, and thus, perhaps, be able to resolve some issues with more speed. In any case, regret that many of the issues that are debated here today, that we will vote here today, are repeated one year ago and, therefore, some have been resolved, it is true, but many continue to be constant once and for all. Political reflection on the context that we found ourselves in 2014, which is to be done, is required: context of retailing in sanitation, education, in the different departments of the Generalitat, in the different societies, in the public workers of the Generalitat, of retailing that have not yet regained its purchasing power; context of difficult financial problems, such as the backwardness, of the Generalitat, for the crisis, for a band, but also for a bad management, for an economic policy of the Administration that has proved itself to be Europe, Spain and Catalonia error – error. Economic policy must be countercyclical. Economic policy in times of expansion must be more restrictive, in times of recession must be expansive, not backwards. Therefore... we believe that this has also proved itself. I, of course, an insufficient funding system. It is not a matter of stabilising expenditure or trying to square numbers and not having a deficit, which is also a matter of trying to improve the financing system, which is insufficient to finance the health, education and basic services of our country. Therefore, there is a new funding system, which, let's remember, has expired since 2014. So this year we're going to have to have a new funding system. Austerity and retailing led to greater social inequalities, against which we all surely wanted; they led to a halt in the economy, or to feelings, and as a result they led to a flood of tax receipts; therefore, more in need, more in debt. Therefore, we enter a perilous circle that does not help, precisely, to get out of this situation. I also said: how do we finance infrastructure? There is a particular vote that is said, since 2008, the particular vote, which is a classic of the syndic Jordi Pons, which always tells us the same: I need to review... – and some of them came as early as 2008, it was another time –, in any case, I need to review how we finance infrastructures, especially with these outdated methods, which are not then contemplated in the current expenditure, but to assume future assumptions. Because there is an example: 35_percent of the expense of a new assumption is already mortgaged in previous commitments. Therefore, we must try... – until 2041, this happens to us – we must try, therefore, to mortgage less future generations, future governments, and, obviously, this also poses an increase in the cost of financing, etcetera. Like public-private collaboration, so does the neo-liberal, public-private, that's all good; private, huh? Private money seems to be good at managing the public. So no. Depên – depên. Okay? You don't have to be dogmatic on one side or the other, but we might have to look better, huh? , the costs, and above all the rescue that the public sector has to do when precisely the private sector enters to manage a public service and, then, makes suspension of payments or has problems that then we all have to rescue. Like the sale of assets, which has generated losses to the Generality. We've already said it, and we'll say it again: we're getting screwed, we're losing money, and we're not going to meet the guy. Bad deal, it didn't work. Dividing operations, of which in twelve – in twelve – we lost money, which means we sold more money than we bought. Therefore, the specific content, very, very..., I have spent a lot of time, because I will not have time; obviously, it has already been said that it encompasses all the Administration of the Generality and other autonomous entities; obviously, it has a faithful image of the heritage, but it does take back many aspects to improve. Close the consolidated accounts. « We'll have them, it's about time! It is impossible to take a reliable photo of what there is without consolidated accounts, and to know how the flows between entities and beasts that exist between entities and Generality..., how they affect and are counter-responding. Deputations are not to be. You say so. So, so, they don't follow, because the 2006 Statute already says they don't have to be. Indebtedness... « Ui, the tripartite, which unfortunately we did, those who wasted, who made choices, who made hospitals: 28,000_million euros of debt, 2010. It's eighty..., approximately, 80,000_millions, currently; 2014, 55. Therefore, say: "Home, from 28 to 80,000, therefore, the debt has gone up a lot; and you need to improve the financing precisely so that you don't have to go financing the expenditure running with more and more debt. Presuppositional and public debt stability law. Keep growing – keep growing. We failed with 2.75 the deficit, 32.7 the debt respects GDP. We do not complete the law of estabilitation; a law of estabilitation that never pleased us, that we do not complete it. That, of course, was the great agreement between the People's Party and Convergence in the Congress, and that, obviously, proved to be wrong, and that, obviously, it proved to be that it had to be modified, so that there was no complicating. And, in addition, it made the financial situation and the situation worse for the public service and the situation of the citizens. It was obviously necessary to make an economic financing plan, needing funding of 5,400_millions, inverted executed and not imputed. That we should try to spend what we're supposed to, and in any case make the relevant modifications so we can spend money that's supposed to. As I have also said, EUR 685 million of the bank charges to be cancelled. Of course, it's the PP with this... of course, it's that we also give a lot of motivation, because they don't do or let it happen. They don't fix the financing, nor do they allow you to impose taxes to increase your tickets. So, what are we staying at? And it's not the Constitutional. Listen, the PP government created the zero-type tax precisely because we couldn't do it... precisely because there wasn't a double taxation, precisely because the Constitutional suspended. A shame, it is true; but, of course, if this came along with a better amount of funding... but neither is the case. Two thousand and nine hundred and millions of euros spent and not accounted for, basically of salvation, that this is also a classic; delay in payments to pharmaceuticals. Multiannual expenditure, as I said, is likely to assume future assumptions. The risk is... they're also warning us that it's too high. There's got to be a better amount of funding. Justifiable memory, very important. We are fed up with the Commission telling us that they are engaged in contracting procedures from different departments in an irregular way, that the salaries of workers may not be very good, of companies, of the Administration of the Generality... And, therefore, the memory could, too, detail those contracting procedures that are not quite correct. Or see what procedures we use to control them better. Deficiencies, as we have said, with the material immobilization of the Cat Salut; sale of immovables; compensations, warn us. There may be compensation for the case of Aigues Ter Llobregat...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.31.0	Mr. Ordeig...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.32.0	... – I finish, President – and, therefore, it is also important to take this into account. I'm done, President. Just say, in summary, what I said to the principle: worse years of the crisis, of the detail, of the erroneous decisions have made the finances of the Generalitat very difficult, as well as the situation that many citizens have experienced in our home. We share and collect the union's pocket, the good work. We support, of course, his management; but obviously, in no case... – and we have said so and say so – in no case do we share the political management that has been done, which was done, of this assumption. For this reason, we would facilitate your approval with a abstention, but we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.33.0	Mr. Ordeig...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.34.0	Many thanks, members of the union, president, deputies, deputies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.35.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of the Lady Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.36.0	Thank you, President. And good morning to all, and to all, and to thank..., beginning especially to thank the work that the Union of Auditors has done, in general, and also in this report in concrete form. This report, for us, is going to reveal two things mainly. The first is the infra-financing situation that the Generality is experiencing – thepathy in 2014 and also the now – and the use of opaque financing mechanisms, which, on the one hand, generate perverse incentives for the political class and, on the other hand, facilitate corruption. And he explains to me: about the generality's infra-financing situation, the deficit in 2014 was 2.75_per_cent when the target was to reach '1_per_cent. And, in fact, the deficit reached 5,400_million euros, even though the assumptions consolidated the detail. There has been enough talk of this in the previous interventions, but it should be remembered that it was the year in which school fees were increased, of school teachers, who had already reduced to half the financing of schools in Bressol, and in 2015 the Generalitat was no longer contributing, that the White Sea was facing Boi Ruiz and its weavers, that the managers of public hospitals warned that we were heading towards the liquidation of the public health system... In short, it is obvious a situation of infra-financing. And this lack of resources supposes an "austerized" model that does not only pass to Catalonia, which is common in southern Europe and which has converted Catalonia into one of the territories with more inequality; an inequality that began with the detail and which we still water today. In fact, the other day, they explained to us in a report that one of every four children is at risk of poverty. And that's mainly for two reasons. The first, the scan, the asphyxiation will finance that the Generality suffers from on behalf of the Government of the State; a state that, moreover, has a clear recentizing vocation and that currently counts with the support of Ciutadans, and on occasions..., today seems to begin to change the history, but on occasions it has counted with the support of the PSOE and the GNP – now we have also seen it with the approval of the assumptions. The current funding system is completely obsolete. And, although it affects a good part of the territories of the State, I think it is also important to highlight, and it is no mystery, that funding is also used to reward or punish the various territories as a function of whether they collaborate or not with the Government of the State, and Catalonia is also aware of this situation. Now, I don't want to forget that it was Convergence and Union that voted in favour of the Financial Stability and Financial Sustainability Act, a tool with which the Generality's accounts intervened, when the People's Party had an absolute majority and did not need the Convergence and Union votes for it. I think that's all there is to it. And, besides, we also want to clarify, the blame, it is true, of the situation of infra-financing is of the Government of the State, but not all – not all –; here we also have a share of responsibility, because we can talk about the tax of drains that we come pouring, well, the last few years. During the previous legislature, the Government of Juntes per el Si had the opportunity, on four occasions, to establish the foundations of a fiscal system that followed more justly and more redistributed, and they did not steal, neither the Republican Left nor the PDECAT nor the independents wanted to take this step, they did not want to push the taxes to which they have most. We are talking about a reform of the inheritance tax and donations that would only affect the 5_percent of Catalonia's citizenship; a reform of the property tax that would only affect the fifteen_ thousand declarants who have the returns..., the great fortunes, and a reform of the IRPF tram that belongs to our competence, would only apply to the 5_per_cent more rich. Therefore, and here I would do one morning to the intervention made before the deputy of Ciutadans, making them higher in Catalonia are not the most paying; for this I think it is the great difference: while you see Spaniards, we see citizenship, one that is privileged and the other that is painted. I think this morning's a big deal. And the common factor of these causes of infra-financing, we find it in a neoliberal regime, which imposes austerity on the countries of the European periphery only in favour of the debt and the private bank. The Government of the Generalitat protests because Spain treats Catalonia as if it were a colony, but it does not mention that Germany and the European Union treat southern countries as if they were colonies. Above all, the European Union and Germany are positioned as the good part and the State as the bad part in the current conflict of interests, and they failed to assign proper responsibilities. It is true that Mr. Mariano Rajoy's government is scant and repressive, but it is no less true that it is in line with the fiscal policies emanating from the European Fiscal Pact and Maastricht, and that it is repressing, without major blows from the European Union, and we have not yet felt the Government of the Generality calling for a rethink of the European economic pacts when it claims sovereignty. This makes them very little credible and makes us suspect that the State is for the Catalan right a real evil, yes, but that allows them not to point to the socio-economic problems of our time. And the second reality that sets out the table to this report, which also reverses the private vote of the syndic Jordi Pons and Novell: the use of opaque financing mechanisms of immobile infrastructures that generate perverse incentives for the rulers and facilitate corruption. We are referring to what is also called public-private collaboration, as has been said; others say that they are financial and accounting engineering operations, or, if they want to, we can also call them creative comptability. In short, they are methods every time more sophisticated, that each time they complicate the transparency exercise more and that they have high costs for the country. As Mr Pons and Novell said, it explains that these formulas are operations of difficult control, that suppose decisions that have effects at twenty-five or thirty years, when we know that governments are sluggish for four, that involve a generational translation of costs, that can affect, as I have said, the principle of presuppositional transparency, that they mortgage future assumptions and that they impose a certain model of management of infrastructures; in short, that these operations mortgage the future of the country. And, in this case, in the report that is presented, we see it in numerous cases, but I will not call just one, the Cat Salut. We saw that by 2015 it already had 70_per_cent, 99,3_per_cent and 47,8_per_cent of the capital investment and payment expenses of the debt commitments. So it can't work. More things we've found. There are deposit entries on deposits in credit institutions for EUR 685 million that we believe should not have been included in the principle of prudence. You know that we are in favour of taxing banks, but what we say is that, if you already knew that the Constitutional Court, for a matter of competition, was going to drop this tax, it cannot be included, by principles of prudence, in the presumption. Anyway – I would also like to do one morning – we understand that they were used to reduce the deficit at the time, and if that was used to avoid more detail, then we welcome it. It also piles up in transfers destined to the Grand Theatre of the High School, with the liquidation of the expense assumption of the CatSalut, with the Authority of the Transport Metropolity... We understand, again, that it has stored the debt to reduce the deficit. And again I say to them: if it was possible to avoid more details, then we give it the welcome. Now, we are not because of deuteronomy, but we are not because of lack of transparency. For this reason, we believe that we need to audit the debt with an open and participatory process, to put the books at the bottom of Catalans and Catalans to clarify these mechanisms of which we are talking, which are more or less opaque and which have not just become clear in the accounts that are presented. And I'm done. This report that brings to the light are accounts that, four years later, simply serve us as a lesson to know what we need to do and what we don't do, what generates the most benefit or what makes inequality worse, and how the convergent model of retail doesn't solve the problems and it's the opposite of what Catalonia deserves. And we need to think of solutions, solutions that we need to go through two paths. The first, a reform of the financing system; they cannot leave the chair empty in Madrid to negotiate a new financing system. Just as they don't leave the chair empty at the Congress, don't leave the chair empty to negotiate a new funding system. We know he's not his model, but it's that while Catalonia and Catalans can't wait any longer. So, a little responsibility. Our model goes through a bilateral relationship with the State, with a tax history of its own, not only to recapitulate, but also with tax capacity. We want fiscal sovereignty. But it's that while that's up, Catalans and Catalans can't wait any longer, with a generality that's absolutely offended. And it also goes – and it goes – through a tax reform, which I have already explained. I'm done. After eight years, we had three presuppositional prorogations. We have hope, we have the confidence that this October we are starting to work on a new premise for 2019, and we would very much like to see that when you get to the Union of Accounts and the audit, you don't have to do the twenty-five recommendations again, because that would be a good thing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.37.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. Now it's the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of the Lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.38.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies, president. MPs of Ciutadans, we have finally discovered what is really important to Catalans: the color groc. Many thanks for giving us this information... for which thirty-six Members are here to pursue, for this patriotic Croat against the groc colour. With their attitude, they swallow and give away the violent outrage. When we say that fascism requires the complicity of institutions to camp with impunity on the street, we talk about that. And I should be ashamed of them. They have a very high responsibility. And, to be able to win, as the mouth always fills that they have won these elections, one must know, to win, and you are proving that you don't know a little bit, to win; now, yes, the dark color, we chase it. [[Greetings.]] And speaking about the questions that Catalans really care about..., and I also refer to the intervention that Citizens made about the general account and the accounts that we are talking about today. It is precisely in these accounts that you have to ask what are the questions that really interest you and what economic model you propose, that it is certainly not so different from the economic model of the neoliberals, if you follow, come from you, because you defend the same type of policies. And, therefore, this question should also be asked. On the general account, we will focus on two basic questions – some have already been mentioned –: the general account on public debt, and we will also talk about the private vote of the Pons syndic; two points, two aspects on the economy, on the accounts and on the policies that represent this closure of accounts that are, we understand, related, because the numbers are political, the economy is political and the economic system directly determines our day-to-day. Today, we're processing the 2014 general accounts. That year he ruled... there was that government of the best, that of Arthur Mas, and of Mr Andreu Mas-Colell, as a counselor. By the way, the PSC companies, I thought that... they were hard on policies and management; in fact, they literally said they didn't support... that, in any case, they shared that. It's surprising, because Mr. Swordler was an Inner Counselor; therefore, he is the person here in this plenary with the most propriety to come to defend accounts that have led most of the popular classes to live with an absolute precariousness. Because, in 2014, unemployment, according to the Idescat, was at 20.3_per_cent; in 2014, it consolidated Catalan public spending as one of the lowest in the European Union, and in 2014 it was also the year when poor economic indexes continued to rise to 40_per_cent, as we find ourselves today. Today, therefore, we have some accounts that, from our point of view, respond to a continuous idea of retail and austerity policies imposed as a result of the crisis, that establish a menu of driving wire that for us has a lot to see with the difficulties of autonomous management and that has a lot to see also with the rule of 78; it has to see with the model of public-private management that they have exploited a lot, a lot, the governments of Convergence, but also the governments of the tripartite, perhaps in another way, and that they have generated a system of deliberate predatory against the popular classes and their needs, and that the PDECAT, today, still making, putting the interests of the private transnational enterprises before the interests of the municipal classes, the difficulties of the popular classes. So, remember, perhaps the economic models are not so divergent and the economy is political and politics is also economic. Today, the CUP - Creed Constituent we have to repeat once more that we are not opposed to the question of the debt or the deficit, but rather that what we reprimand is that there are those who negotiate with regard to this question. And we think that what's on display with reports like we have here today is how taxpayers' resources always end up in the same buttocks, end up being used to enrich a few, and it's done through absolutely abusive figures. "Deuteronomy grows," said the chief trustee, "and we appreciate his pocket, and to all his team, the debt grows; therefore, the participation of taxpayers in this debt also grows and, therefore, precariousness also grows. On the particular vote of Mr Pons, who points to the question of the difficulties or the danger of the relationship of forms of public-private collaboration, we have already, on many occasions, when we spoke of the general account, put it on the table, because in the end we are abstaining in the vote precisely for this reason, because we think that this report is insufficient and because we do not think that it is up to us to explore all the limits of the need to combat corruption, the corruption that has resulted from public-private collaboration and the corruption, in the end, of the deutocratic regime. Finally, I finish, today, that we are talking about accounts, remember that it is not possible to do politics, I insist, without economy; that it is not possible to talk about prioritizing people's needs and applying neoliberal policies that privatize them all and market life; it is not possible to say that it is wanted to be republic, without going into the background...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.39.0	Mrs. Sànchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.40.0	... to hear – I'm finished – in which is the economic system that traps us and connects us; it cannot be made republic without questioning the policies that have ended until now. And the republic movement will have to reflect on a very simple question: that the tools of the love do not serve to unmount the house of the love and, therefore, to fight from the street to advance and to change this economic model, and, changing it, indeed we will be able to build republic. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.41.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.42.0	Thank you, President. President of the Generality, mayor syndic, syndics, syndics, deputies and deputies, I use this round of words to defend the position of our group in relation to the report of the syndic in relation to the accounts of the financial year 2014. With these interventions ends the presupposition cycle of 2014, which begins with the elaboration of the presupposition in the corresponding departments, which have the visibility with approval by the Government, they have entry into the Parliament the generation of 2014, the presuppositions are approved, and at this moment the presuppositions are tanked. And, therefore, it is time to value these assumptions – these assumptions – in relation to this report, but also in relation to what was said at that time. And at that time they presented some assumptions with a deficit target of '1_per_cent– they were around 2,000_million euros–, and we felt the councilman Mas-Colell roving, because he said: « Listen, the one that would touch us in Catalonia is 2,2_per_cent. And we have said to you repeatedly: the problem is not the objective of deficit, nor what we have or what the Councillor Mas-Colell wanted; the problem is the deficit that the Government does. Neither 1 nor 2.2: 2.75, as evidenced in the union report, and therefore 5,400_millions of deficit. Therefore, the problem is not objective, the problem is rigour and presuppositional discipline. And this implies, as a result, that the ultimate objective of those assumptions, which was to reach a maximum debt at 31 December of 60,000_millions..., is to reach a debt of 64,000_millions. We do not complete the deficit, we do not complete the debt, we do not complete the public debt, and to finish rounding it up, not least, we also do not complete the rule of spending. In relation to the expenditure not counted in the exercise in which the expenditure is carried out, which puts in evidence, therefore, increments of expenditure that are moved to the future, if well in 2013 there are 2,300_millions, in 2014 it becomes 2,900_millions. What's the big expense that's moving to the future? What's that thing that stops paying in its moment and goes into the future? So things are certainly as trivial for some as sanitation and teaching: educational concerts, ICS and Cat Salut. And all this adds up approximately 2,000_million; that is, an obvious display of the government's social sensitivity. If I hear a lot of other things to stop paying or to move the expense: for example, if I have moved the expense or stopped paying the celebration of an illegal consultation on the same year 2014. Treasury, what's the result of the Treasury? The result is a Romanesque of 2,000_million negatios– 2,000_million negatios. In the end, everything ends up with the same consequence. At the time of the creation of a presupposition in which there are fictitious entries– we denounced the 2014 generation, which had more than 2,300_million euros of fictitious entries–, at the time when it is contemplated in the presupposition less than the cost of which will end in the end, all this causes tensions of treasuries, all this provokes Romans of negatius treasuries and all that causes is the increase of the debt, which is the situation that is evident in this report. I wasn't referring to it today, because it's resorted to many years ago, but, man, I think in the end, that in this House the two groups that have the most say in the name of the fact that there are different financing methods in the assumptions that we are being mortgaged and that we are paying a mortgage now, at this time, following the Socialist Party and following the heretics of Initiative for Catalonia..., man, as the least Republican Left has held the dignity of not talking to us. But read the report! It is that the last reversal that was made through this financing system was the year 2009! Remember, who ruled 2009? You. And you come to criticize here now – is it the same, who it is, nobody else – that these funding systems are missing the public accounts of the Generality? Yes, but it's that some of us already gave it to them when you did, that they were the ones who did it at the time. I think there's been enough talk about the sale of real estate. To put in full that not only are not the forecasts complete, but that the sales that are fan – the evils sold that are fan – is fan with lost, come for the value of 330_million euros, and, moreover, with some lost, between real and financed, 80_million euros. The absence of documentation, which is another consideration used to making the union in its reports, therefore, we do not want to let it go, because we understand that it is important that there be the evaluation memories of the objectives that have been presented in the assumptions, and also the memory of the efficiency of the use of public resources in the provision of public services.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.43.0	Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.44.0	And I'm done quickly, President. I simply recall the union's finding at the end of its report: there is a delicate financial situation which refers to the need for financing, therefore, to the deficit, the three-fold and the appropriate fund, to a high level of debt financing and to the commitments entered into in the future. We believe that in these conditions we cannot let empty falls at the time of talking about autonomous financing, which is what they like or not, in the end we end up having. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.45.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. [[Pause.]] Yes, why ask me the word, Mr. Rodriguez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.46.0	Yes; to ask for a separate vote. It consists of two points, the agreement, and we would ask that it is voted without both points separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.47.0	Okay. Let us therefore vote on the opinion of the Commission of the Union of Accounts on the General Account of 2014. As requested, we would vote separately on point 1 and point 2. The vote begins. Point 1. This first point was approved for [[remorse of the voice]] ... 65 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. The reminders that to vote must be present at the beginning of the vote. They pay attention to the stamp, they have plenty of time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, in any case, be a little bit more..., we'll give a little more margin with the bell, but remember that you can't vote a time the vote started. Let us move on to the second point; therefore, we shall vote on the second point in the opinion. The vote begins. This was approved by 68 votes in favour, against and 63 abstentions. Therefore, it is given for approval the joint opinion on the General Account of 2014. Let's go to the next point – many thanks, major syndicate, members of the Union of Accounts, thanks –, let's go to the next point of the order of the day. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. Yes, Mr. Riera, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.48.0	Thank you, President. It is for a clarification that seems necessary to us, as well as for us above that some public communication means are spreading the news that the agreement respects the final solution for which it makes the conflict of the deep has come for unanimity, and it has not been so. Let's get this straight. Indeed, and as you know, in the closed-door meeting that took place in the meeting room of the Speaker of Parliament, the CUP stated that it did not agree with this solution, for two reasons: we understand that the deep loops are legitimate in and out of the chamber and in any area, and in the second place, because we think that, in front of the fascism, not a step backwards, and less when the fascism expresses itself aggressively and violently in this Parliament, as was seen when the Citizen's spokesman removed the loop. We will not allow the fascism to be normalized in the Parliament of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.49.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.50.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.51.0	We're following – we're following... Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.52.0	For a point of order, and also for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.53.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.54.0	Yes; well, the first thing is that, of the intolerable manifestations of the deputy of the UPC regarding fascism..., I think fascism is everything that involves supremacism, xenophobia, and that makes public space, so, as if it were an ideological space, without respecting everyone's ideas. What is asked here is that everyone's ideas are respected and that the neutrality of government banks is respected. And that is the agreement that we have reached mostly, except for the CUP group, so that this session can continue. That in this session it was done what..., the bond has been withdrawn...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.55.0	Mr. Carrizosa, it's been 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.56.0	...but that in the future we want the government banks to show neutrality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.57.0	Time's up, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.58.0	...that this institution deserves. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.59.0	We continue with the second point of the order of the day, which is the motion for a resolution on the creation of parliamentary committees. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of parliamentary committees]] [[252-00006/12]] They have the proposal in the plenary's file. In any case, I'm going to pass the word on to Mr. Perez because you read the set of commissions and who are the areas of action of each of them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.60.0	If it seems to you, Mr. President, I'll read the commissions; the ambits are in the..., but if I want to read them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.61.0	Yes, I'm sorry. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We can give it to you for clarity, can't we? [[Pause.]] All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.62.0	Yeah. « Proposal for a resolution creating committees – the Bureau of Parliament, escorted the Board of Spokesmen – legislative: the Commission for Institutional Affairs, the Commission for Economic Affairs and History, the Commission for External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, the Commission for Internal Affairs, the Commission for Education, the Commission for Territories, the Commission for Environment and Sustainability, the Commission for Health, the Commission for Culture, the Commission for Justice, the Commission for Enterprise and Knowledge, the Commission for Treball, Social Affairs and Families, the Commission for Digital Policies and Public Administration and the Commission for Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food. And from specific commissions we have follow-up commissions: Commission of People's Equality, Commission of Youth Policies and the Commission of Childhood.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.63.0	Thank you, Second Secretary. As there is a unanimous agreement on the Board of Spokespersons and the Bureau, do they seem to be able to approve by consent the creation of these commissions? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So we give for approval these legislative commissions that the second secretary just explained. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a commission of inquiry into the espionage of journalists and politicians by the Government of the Generality]] [[252-0003/12]] Let us therefore turn to the next item on the agenda, the third item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a committee of inquiry into the espionage of journalists and politicians by the Government of the Generality. This proposal has been submitted for the parliamentary groups of Ciutadans, Socialists and Units for Progress, Catalonia in Comú Pode and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Therefore, to present this initiative, we will start the debate with the proposed parliamentary groups, on a single two-minute intervention period for each parliamentary group and five for the subgroup. The first word is for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso. They ask that if they have to abandon the hemicicle they do it quietly and quickly, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.64.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are defending in this House the motion for a resolution to create a commission of inquiry into political espionage in Catalonia, an illegal and anti-democratic espionage that, according to all the indications, has been carried out for a long time by journalists, politicians and citizens who do not cover the wheels of separatism. To journalists like, for example, Albert Castillón, for a reason that is essential for the defense of his rule, because Ciutadans is growing much and wants to have valuable people. So look, in this case, in that of the valuable people, in which the talent is likely to lie down in Ciutadans, I don't know if they'll ever have enough spies. Or to trade union representatives of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, in a cynical, supposed exercise of defence of trade union freedom; an illegal and anti-democratic espionage that have made members of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra under the political direction of Convergence and Union, which remains of this electoral federation, and with the explicit support of its main partner, of the Republican Left of Catalonia, as at the very least. We've been suspicious for years, we've been aware of it, we've been reporting it for a long time and we want it investigated. In this case, here, we play, in the Parliament of Catalonia, because it is our competence. The control of the governments of the Generality and of the partisan who in fact, of the public resources and of the functions that they have in their charge the security of all; of the functions that must guarantee the freedom of all, in a very concrete framework, that of their competitions derived from our democratic order. It has nothing to do with the fictitious and undemocratic mark that first the conxorxa of Puigdemont and Junqueras, together with the Yes and always faithful Cup, and now President Torra, with all the glue of friends of Puigdemont, the conspirator left, always and always, cannot miss, the Cup, they want to impose on us, despite all the pleas having 150,000 votes less than the rest of the forces represented in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] Because I must remind you, I must remind you that they have the majority in the elections, because from the point of view of the electoral regulations we follow in 1979 and Catalonia is still the only autonomous Spanish community that does not have its own electoral law, but they have neither won the elections, we have won them, Ciutadans, nor have any social majority that can be used as a hostage to try to legitimize their illegitimate intent and continue to give a head start to democracy. They can't and can't. But, look, maybe you can just hang on to this Board of Inquiry today, even if it's a few days or a few weeks. Today, all the reactionaries of this parliamentary chamber, the supremacists of the Puigdemont Friends' Club, the self-appointed left-wing republicans, who prioritize their party interests for the effective defense of rights as fundamental as equality, freedom and solidarity, and the anti-system, who give enthusiastic recollection to the corrupt regime established by Jordi Pujol and Soley, of which they want to follow their heretical enthusiasts, petitions which call for, all the reactionaries, as well as, will reject with their vote the creation of this investigative commission. [[Greetings.]] I would like to recall the words of Mr Guinó, on the basis of the debate in this plenary, the last legislature, on 8 March 2017, of the proposal for a resolution to create a commission of inquiry on which they wanted to name « Operation Catalunya. We already wanted to say that the real Catalonia Operation is the systematic policy that has made the corrupt rule established for Jordi Pujol and Soley of the public resources that we provide all Catalans. Congressman Guinó said that he made it easy to talk about this case, that they wanted to be the coverter of the coup against the democracy that they were preparing and said, he is in the Plenary Diary of March 8, 2017, on page 79, he said textually: "It was certainly done in a theoretically democratic state, with all the elements and with all the characteristics of a non-democratic state. And therefore, from our point of view, totalitarian. So look, yes, these words are fully applicable to the case in question. And this totality of conduct, of having the public media served through the Government of the Generality, to control the dissident, to everyone who does not fill with his wheels of moli, is this, no more or less, totalitarianism, and fastic. And that's enough. Back in time, until recently, they thought they could slip away from their accounts before the citizens of Catalonia. Back in the day, they've enjoyed a large majority of Parliamentarians who've already lost and who won't come back, you know that very well. But now they don't have the social majority to think that they can do and do it voluntarily, without effective control. To believe, as they have long believed, that they are in the midst of good and evil and that they can act on the margins of democracy and law, with impunity. No, ladies and gentlemen of the groups who continue to support giving a visit to the democracy of Catalonia in the 21st century, this is over. They won't get lucky, the brothel's over! Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's not 2nd of a fever today, and the current Catalonia is not assembling itself in Pennsylvania, I said it a few months ago, in this faristol. The more he assembles in Transylvania, in the Transylvania of Nicolaie Ceauşescu, we do not have among us anyone who has a very important country to his DNA that makes him assimilated in his behavior to Phil, the great protagonist of the 2nd of February to the United States. Still, today could be Groundhog Day, today could be the day of the marmot. And why do I say it could be? Because Ciutadans, together with the PP, has already called for the creation of a commission of inquiry into political espionage in Catalonia, April 2013. Now a little more than five years ago. A commission that was rejected for this plenary, precisely with votes against Convergence and Unity and Left. On that occasion, unfortunately, there was also the PSC. It could be the day of the marmot, but it's not. It's not just because we're not in Punxsutawney, it's not the 2nd of February, we don't have a marmot. Today is not the day of the marmot because Ciutadans we won the elections on the 21st of September, with more than 162,000 votes ahead of the list of the idol of separatism fled from justice. Today is not the day of the marmot because the Parliament of Catalonia, in this dozen legislature, which may have just been created, any night the sun can rise, will create this commission even though today there is opposition to Convergence and Union, now devoured by the monster that she herself created, but present in this chamber, in itself of three different groups, Esquerra and the CUP. Today is not the day of the marmot, because the parliamentary force of Ciutadans makes it impossible. We and three other groups of this Parliament want this committee. This commission is a measure of democratic hygiene, essential at this time when some feared political representatives want to give a frontal shot to our democratic order and feel comfortable in the anti-democratic and totalitarian use of the resources of power that have exercised too much time in Catalonia. You know, we can normally force the creation of this committee, in accordance with Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, and we will do so, with the objectives, the scope of action and the contents of the work plan that includes the proposal that we are currently debating in this Parliament. I know it's useless, but like you, Puigdemont and Esquerra's friends' club, they talk so much about dialog, I make them a proposal: they withdraw their papers, presented with the sole purpose of blocking this committee of inquiry and they vote in favour of their creation. They have the opportunity to make a gesture, this yes, truly democratic, rejecting any anti-democratic practice and all that has been done by the Government of the Generality. That's what we're debating. They will not, and it will be clear that you are actually more in favour of the totalitarian methods and feel comfortable with the possibility of enjoying a political police force for their own sake. And yet again, I say to you: the Brochile is over, they will not get together and this commission of inquiry will soon begin to work for transparency against the totalitarian methods and in defense of democracy and the phonenal rights of all Catalans. And so it will be, with the contest of the parliamentary groups that we have presented this proposal, Ciutadans, Socialists, In Comú Puem, and the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.65.0	Mr. Alonso...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.66.0	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.67.0	It is the turn, now, on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of the Mrs. Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.68.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, I'll talk about the committee, huh? It has to be said – and I would like to start with this – that a few Members of this Parliament have tried to arrive and bring a unanimous proposal, they understand that the committee had to do, a unanimous proposal on the work plan and the object of the committee, but it has not been possible. Anyway, I'd like to thank the whole negotiation, the whole thing that's been held, because I think I should be the one who would have expected it. However, I have always had the perception that this committee has never pleased the independenceist majority, nor has it ever liked the Vidal committee, that committee of the last legislature, which in the end, through putting it through, made it unviable. One thing was to try, in the same committee, in the previous plenary, when the point was removed from the order of the day, asking for a new period of items and then, presenting some items that looked good girls to look for the block again. Still, I insist, he tried. But there is also the feeling that transparency does not seem to be one of its principles. Someone may say that we are stuck with the title: Commission of Investigation on espionage to journalists and politicians on behalf of the Government of the Generality. But I will be forgiven, because the title itself is the object of the committee, the reason for which sixty-five Members and Members of this Parliament asked to clarify and remove the existence or not of political espionage and follow-up activities and to listen to politicians, journalists, trade union leaders and social movements, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, using the Cos dels Mossos d'Esquadra. You wanted to extend it to other police units. Look, we've already told them, in principle, everything that improves or expands the Commission's abscess, but not that the retail or does it directly inoperative, because the government has to use its police forces or intelligence agencies to, presumably unlawfully or illegitimately, follow and spy on those who don't share their ideas. I would like to remember why this commission was born and its demand. The warnings of the parliamentary groups were raised, with the knowledge of the documentation that was intervened by the National Police Cos to the Mosso d'Esquadra when they were to destroy it to the incinerator of Sant Adrià del Besòs, we would say that in a manner that is not usual as it is. It seems that what came out of the light, which was known by the communication media, is a small part of the intercepted documentation and the extreme gravity of the facts is already clear, since the espionage would have been produced for strictly ideological reasons and about people and movements, it seems, not adherents to the process. In fact, you had submitted a statement suppressing the analysis of this documentation, with which we had already killed the origin and no longer cared for or continued. It is true that they were willing to withdraw it, it is that already... but that it proved, once more, the little that they liked the commission and that they tried, again, one thing that they already tried and that they also made reference, that it is to give the turn to the commission of the others and therefore, to bring it to their land. And that was something we couldn't tolerate. Because really, what this Parliament needs to do is to clarify the facts and clear up the responsibilities of all kinds that could be given. And so, the proposing groups, according to the Rules, the new one, which has to be modified through the disaster of the Vidal Commission, have made an effort to identify the object of the Commission, as well as the bodies and departments of the Generality that seemed to be directly related. We incorporated the CTTI, the Telecommunications and Information Technology Centre, and the Cesicate, the Information Security Centre of Catalonia, which with its reviews also wanted to make disappear. And I'm doing it at Césicate because, according to their officials, all their reports are always under the burden of team moss because, I want to remind you that it was already at the center of the controversy in 2014, with Felipe Puig, for the elaboration of files with personal data of ideological character. The tempt to use the mechanisms and technology of the Césicate to obtain all kinds of information from certain political or social forces has been very present on the part of some political leaders of the Generality of Catalonia. If it is difficult to subtly follow certain political, social and trade union leaders, as well as journalists, for the sake of being contrary to thought– it seems, or they mean that the majority, that it is not so, difficult for illegitimate, because moreover, it breaks the basic principles of the State of law–, it is not less difficult that there are some responsible ones– and it would be useful to determine which ones, if the commission at the end can be created– that they gave the order to destroy this documentation to the incinerator, which documentation completes all the boxes, how much weather is it that the boxes are prepared, or was it precipitated? Is there indeed a report on the project of armed forces and independent intelligence in Catalonia? And it was brought to the purifying fire on October 26th, because it is already clear that the one who would pass the fire would not go away. It is necessary to clarify the facts and that there is light, stenographers and transparency. With greater and clearer information, less risk of manipulation, false news and susceptibility, party interpretations and partisans. It is also necessary, and most importantly, for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. We don't have to forget – and I think the committee has been set up about the storms... but it's worth remembering – that we are still at risk of alerting 4_on_5; that August's proposed Gihadist terrorism called us to the door of the house, to Barcelona and to Cambrils, and that we need information, analysis and expertise on the basic and important Squad Coast, because a good police intelligence is prevention for our security. But we need to know that they will work for each and every one of us, for our security, not that they obey political orders will use their knowledge and instruments to follow and to inform themselves about those who do not think like those who have the political responsibility of the body. Cal, and it's urgent, this board of inquiry. I think that Ciutadans's companion, the deputy Matías Alonso, said to them: "Remove the papers and we believe the commission. In any case, if not, I believe that in the negotiations and yesterday's talks it became clear that the committee is important and that we all want it. We hope that this is the case, because, among other things, we need to recover the corporate image of a Mossos d'Esquadra body in the service of the citizenry, of all the citizens of Catalonia, who act as an element of defense of legality, democratic regulation and internal cohesion of our country. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance express our absolute conviction that the vast majority of the agents and commanders of the police of Catalonia, regardless of their legitimate personal positions respect the institutional and political conflict that we are living, carry out their daily work with the exquisite political neutrality required of the police of a democratic society, while it has been a long time since Mossos d'Esquadra suffered a social and media overexposition, and various attempts to use his task politically. We believe that this has severely affected your prestige and your professional credibility, so we think it's important to get it back. We would have liked to be able to help, from the committee, that all the folds were able to do so with joy and fleeing the political instrumentation of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and other bodies of the Government of Catalonia. It wasn't possible. I hope that's the way it is. I don't know if there's going to be any change, but in principle it doesn't seem to be. But I also want to make it clear, and in a firm and clear way, that your thoughts would not help with these principles, and less with transparency, to make what we determined in this committee possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.69.0	Thank you, Mrs. Escarp. It is now the turn, on the part of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, of Mr Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.70.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, we want to know. We want to know the truth, and that is why our parliamentary group has endorsed this initiative. We want the Parliament of Catalonia to approve a commission of inquiry, because through a fact closer to the films of spies it began to unravel a plot. You know that an operation of the Mossos d'Esquadra was encamped at the gates of the incinerator of Sant Adrià de Besòs with a plethora of dossiers and reports that spoke of us. Because yes, deputies and deputies, they were possibly talking about some and some of those who are listening to me. And we want to know and we want to know if it is true that the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra has devoted effect to follow-up, interception of oral, telephone and computer communications, and systematic and prolonged listening to politicians, journalists, trade unionists, social activists, like – and some not like – the process, with the intention of knowing their relations and movements. We want to know who ordered it, who ordered it, who commanded it, or who ordered it politically. And we want to know who are the people who have been subject to follow-up. Says an urban legend that Councilman Puig started, that first it was an operation against anarchists, occupation, independence and people of wickedness and that, from little to little, he went animated and passed it, to this thing, names of people who interested him to accumulate files and information. I don't know what the point is, but I can imagine. We want to know – and I think that all Members will not be able to get out of this fact – if that's true; if that's true or we're just wrong and these mountains of files, then they were literature to which this set of moves is dedicated in the free hours, and they invented it. Therefore, this is the object of the committee. This commission is neither to strengthen the process nor to go against the process. Because to go against the process is not worth it, but I have to tell them that to strengthen the process is not worth it either. And, therefore, it is better that the police in Catalonia are dedicated to what they have to do, that it is the security of all Catalans and Catalans. And on this subject, we want answers. And that's why we signed this initiative. Four more things I want to make clear. First, at the end of yesterday, I would say that perhaps for a few hours, there were 135 votes in favour of this committee – 135 votes in favour of this committee. Then the thing got complicated and spratted. These 135 votes were used to maintain the title of this commission, therefore, the creation of a commission of inquiry on espionage to journalists and politicians by the Government of the Generality. These 135 votes were used to admit the extension of this commission to the investigation of these practical ones in all the bodies and security forces, so obviously, to the Squadron Mousses, but also to the National Police and also to the Civil Guard. Because, unfortunately, it seems that these methods are not excluded from the Squad Mosos, they also seem to be practiced by the police and the Civil Guard. Or I say it the other way around: these methods of espionage are not excluded from the National Police and the Civil Guard, but it seems that they are also practiced by the Mosso d'Esquadra. Therefore, these 135 votes were in favour of this subject. Three, the legitimate strategy of the parliamentary groups has avoided this agreement. And so, too, from this, you have to learn a lesson. Sometimes what we want isn't to know, what we want is to mess with Catalans. And that's not a good thing. And, therefore, I also have to tell you that it is possible that this commission will come back. I don't know if he'll come back, but it's possible that he'll come back and we can do this debate with the level of rationality and responsibility that such an important issue deserves. I'm done. We think we need agreements between different people. This Parliament won't push forward if someone thinks he or she thinks we'll all think about it. This will not happen, because we would not be a reflection of Catalan society. Therefore, agreements between different people, between people who think different. And this committee was an opportunity because what was to be won is the net game, and what was, in some way, to be investigated are the raw practices, making the police of Catalonia serve. And, therefore, it is clear that we must preserve – and it is also something that we have said since the zero minute – we preserve the Squadre de Mossos de Escadre de Partidismo Barroer, because if we pose the Squadre de Mossos de Escadre, which is a democratic conquest of Catalan society, at the mercy of certain political debates, we are wrong. And also that partyism does not devour politics – today we did not have, in this session, a small show –; that partyism does not devour politics. And especially that the party doesn't appeal to us... I don't take us to put the bruticia under the captiva, because the bruticia still exists. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.71.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. It is the turn, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.72.0	Thank you very much, President. We have seen, in recent times – perplexed and overwhelmed, I will not deny it – shows of degradation of public life. In some autonomous communities of Spain – Valencia, Madrid – these shows correspond to my party. In other communities, such as Andalusia, they correspond to the Socialist Party. I'm much more ashamed of my own party; I'm more ashamed of my own party – I guess everyone would be exactly the same. But, said this, what about Catalonia? And in Catalonia? I say this because when we talk about this issue, to some, who always fill their mouths talking about Catalonia, they come into a strange plateau concern and only look to other places in Spain, rather than reflect on what is happening here. And we're in the Parliament of Catalonia. And, therefore, here it is up to us today to talk about Catalonia. And it is up to me, therefore, from the initial recognition that I have just done, to refresh the memory about what is happening here in Catalonia. Because here in Catalonia, those who have stolen at full hands are separatists. Here in Catalonia, those who have taken the money to tax havens are the separatists. Here in Catalonia, those who spy on people for their political ideas are the separatists. Here in Catalonia, those who have illegally used tax and personal data of the citizens themselves are the separatists. In short, here in Catalonia, those who have turned Catalan public and political life into a ponzonous puddle are the separatists. It is you, the separatists, who call the democratic action of justice a violation of civil rights and instead try to cover up and conceal cases of espionage, or paralyse the commission of inquiry into the use of such fiscal and personal data, the so-called 'viral commission'. Here in Catalonia – I repeat: in Catalonia –, those who violate the civil rights of thousands of Catalans with their tax data, or are spyed on or stolen, it is you, the separatists. No one escapes that we live times of necessary regeneration of public life, of recovering the vocational spirit of service for all of us. And in other autonomous communities, I repeat, this, this regeneration must affect my party, but here, in this part of Mediterranean Spain called Catalonia, it is you, the separatists who will have to regenerate. And they will say to me with good reason: "No generality – no generality. And they're right. What's the big deal? How does it hurt? Well, don't do it either. For this very reason let us separate the grain from the straw. Do not continue to block commissions of inquiry. And if you allow them, and if you allow them to develop properly, we will not be forced to generalize, because it would be proved who of you yes, and who of you not, have fallen into those corrupt practices or of violation of civil rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.73.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the Lady Natalia Sánchez. I'm sorry... I had a point, Mrs. Natalia Sànchez, I see you're Mrs. Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.74.0	Okay. What's happening in this room today is cynicism, it's frivolity; I don't have words to describe it. Rather than equip the whole independence movement with bourgeois nationalism. That's right. They're going to bring about the ultra-reactionary nationalism that you represent together with the People's Party. There is no way to equip all independence and all popular movement with Catalanism and bourgeois nationalism. For another gang, you... you thought you'd be sorting out another person to defend this motion for a resolution, but it's that an ex-commissioned officer of the Army of Artillery Earth Weapons has done it for more than 20 years. I, therefore [[Funnel veils]] I haven't interrupted them while they're talking, I hope they let me talk.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.75.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.76.0	You belong to a patriarchal hierarchical organization, with a great lack of transparency and violence [[remorse of the voice]] An armed organization. I didn't fight while you were talking; I expect respect, please. For another band, you, Mr. Fernández, have told us that, well, we didn't know we were in the Parliament of Catalonia, or if we didn't know we were there. Yes, we do, because yesterday we were in the Parliament of Catalonia trying to negotiate this motion for a resolution and when I went to his office there was no one. [[Widow's remorse.]] For another band, the CUP - Cree is very much in agreement with being able to investigate, for a matter of transparency, the follow-up and espionage activities of all security bodies, and also of all bodies with competence over information; but not only of the bodies that interest them in certain political forces. The parliamentary groups of the PP and Ciutadans have already taken care that we are voting against this motion for a resolution. Some people want, in political accounts, to make political opportunism with this motion for a resolution; apparador policy, press headlines, and not a real investigative task. In fact, they care very little about the task that can be done with this commission. What you want is to explain a sloppy story, a partial story of reality, all for a fucked-up headline. Words can handle everything, can't they? But it's that as many Citizens as the PP can only do politics to serve the interests of the usual, to serve corrupt and bankers, that every day they pre-characterize our lives while repeating their slogans based on a marketing strategy as they cry. We know that they devote a lot of resources to their marketing strategy. But they have done everything possible because we stand against this motion for a resolution. And we have done everything we can to negotiate and approve this motion for a resolution. And they've done it at the last minute and on the basis of excuses. They have not accepted any of us, and we thank Catalonia in common and the PSC, which have practically accepted the totality of our papers, the negotiating taranna that we have been able to maintain. And we place them in place to resubmit this motion for a resolution with the content that we have jointly granted and thus broaden the object of this committee, so that we can make a real transparency exercise. Because we also want to know. And, therefore, let's take the word, Mr. Nuet. And, for another band, neither the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans nor the PP care about people working in this committee. That's what they want, isn't it? The big press headline, as always, we've seen it this morning. What they want is to convey to the public opinion, to cover their electoral strategy, that the General Information Commissioner of the Mosso d'Esquadra, the CTTI and the Cesicat, are the only ones who develop activities of follow-up, monitoring, persecution of social movements, unions, journalists, in favor of political interests. How can you talk about political police? How do you feel about talking about political police? It is true that we need to investigate the activities of the Squadmills and the activities of the CTTI and the Cesicate; we share this, we have been asking for this without success for some time now. But just investigate these security and information things, and not all security things, it's not a transparency exercise. We would also like to know the contents of all the papers that were in that dump, because only an interested part of those papers was leaked, and we already know how it was done. And, for another band, you... you know perfectly – perfectly – the ones who call you "the banners of transparency, that there is a very fluid coordination between all these security and information objects. There is a collaboration between the Provincial Information Brigade of the National Police, between the Information Unit of the Civil Guard and the CNI activity in Catalonia, until the point that these units have a coordination room, a coordination room of the information brigades. Why don't you look into what papers the National Police and the Civil Guard have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.77.0	Lady Sirvent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.78.0	... in this – yes, okay – coordination activity? Why don't we talk about the Macedonia case? Why don't we talk about the six subgroups of the National Police Intelligence Brigade? What do you have to do with the commissioners and the inspectors? Why don't you want to talk about it? What are you doing for them? That they want to store something? Why can't we do a transparency exercise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.79.0	Mrs. Sirvent, it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.80.0	...but a real transparency exercise? All right, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.81.0	It is now, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the return of Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.82.0	Thank you, Mr. President. President Torra, Members, Members, this is the first time I speak from the Faristol, and I come to talk about an interior issue and here is no legitimate Interior Counsellor, Mr Quim Forn, and I want to express it. Just as President Puigdemont, Vice President Junqueras, Councillor Romeva, the Turull, the Rull, our President, Mr Sánchez, or the goodness of Mrs Bassa, who on the other day gave him a tribute to the High Empordà and who filled it with goodness. It's a big deal to talk about in these conditions, but it's the world we find ourselves in. Listen to me, the people you've been listening to haven't taken a shot or a real picture of what happened yesterday, huh? We were willing to renounce the total practice of our precepts to change that the object of investigation of this commission should be extended to all the forces and security features of the State operating in Catalonia, to all. We're just asking for this. Don't say we don't want transparency; we want, and we want a lot, transparency. At the end of late – at the end of late – we had the feeling that what they wanted to do was a media show here today, and in God's faith that they had already done so before they talked about the motion and after they talked about the motion. They tell us about some papers that were intercepted when the Squadron Mosses were cremating them at the incinerator of Sant Adrià de Besòs. This is an activity that usually does the Moisos, the departments of the Generalitat, the departments of other administrations and the companies: believe the information that is not necessary and that is not useful. From this documentation that was in this van, we don't know what the contents were, we don't know if the chain of custody was maintained, there's no record of what information is needed and what is not... We only know leaked information from the press. They're talking about press information. Information from the press as true as that which refers to an attempt to capture a squad move by CTTI agents: two CTTI agents were trying to set up a squad move to work as a spy, huh? They found the perfect case. Some guys who were trying to catch a move on behalf of the CTTI. And this move makes a complaint, a complaint that is noted and investigated – investigated. It's a case he's investigating and, man! , it is found that these two supposed elements of the CTTI who wanted to capture the move were two guys who with very hard work had the majority of age and one of whom was in love with the move. This was recognized by the prosecution, and the Jutjat 16 of Barcelona penalized them with a fine of _months. If this is the information, if this is the wire – which has no wire – which we have to deal with, which is more like a novel than not a case of espionage, it is the ones we have to use to make an investigation commission, it seems to me that Parliament has more importance than not all of this. Listen to me, they talk about policy follow-up – policy follow-up. One of the jobs that the Squad Mosses do is to make counter-vigilance tasks for political leaders. They have to do it routinely or they have to do it at the request of the same interested parties. They must be vigilant and, in fact, fans, and many of you have not objected: the members of the Government, the heads of the parliamentary groups of this Parliament..., all are object of vigilance on the part of the Squadron Mosses. Don't let an excess of zeal on the part of the police indicate that the guards are truly spying. Let's hope it's not like that. And I can't be referring to a few words from Councilman Quim Forn in the Supreme. To the Supreme, the judge asks if it is true that Mr. García Albiol and Mr. Millo have been vigilant. And he replied to the judge, Mr. Forn: "I can say quite frankly that in any case this information is true. In fact, some days later, the Ministry of Interior denied this information that it had done me so badly. To these words in reference. And you were asking and telling us that the citizenry wanted to know. And so, what do you want to know, the citizenry! And he's asking, and he's asking, and he's asking, and he's asking, and he's asking, and he's asking, and he's asking, and he's asking, and he's asking, and he's asking, and he's I need answers, the many answers! For example, the citizenry asks: "Who gave the order to the Mossos d'Esquadra why on the 1st of October thousands of national police and civilian guards beat up the peaceful citizens they were about to vote for? That's what I asked myself, the citizenry. Who gave that order? Who? And who gave the order to the media to bite people? Did anyone call who gave the order? Someone from the European Union, for example? How much did this operation cost? How much is it gonna cost? Mr. Cano was talking about the generality's deficit a while ago, 77_million. Do you know how much the Spanish State paid for ships with pictures of children in the port? You know how much you got? It gives the cent_per_cent of GDP. Those Spanish blues, yellows, urbanites... the Spanish rurals, the calbs, the hairys [[relays]] Everyone, they give everything that's produced in this country for a year, huh? All Spaniards working in front of a machine, producing, with enough work to pay for the state's debt. They say, Mr. Cano told us – and I've made the account up there – that we must, every català, give us a thousand euros for being Catalans. You know, Mr. Cano, how much do you owe for being Spanish? EUR 24,608_. Look if it's because it's Spanish. [[Greetings.]] Have you been watching deputies from this chamber? Have they been escorted to political forces? Why were there helicopters flying over the generality buildings around October 1st? How many cars from the Ministry of State security were camouflaged in Catalonia? How many? Why were there infiltrators of peaceful manifestations of independence movements? What instructions did they have, these infiltrators? Who made them go undercover? What did Mr. Daniel de Alfonso do, with whom he met and with whom he was conspiring against honest Catalan policies? A pearl, this lord, huh? – a pearl. [[Rialles.]] Cobrava seventy_mil_euros indecutably only 2015 – seventy_mil_euros! Certainly, he was traveling as a corporal to the Minister of the Interior with travel agencies that had been contracted without having to use a contract procedure. Home of the sabbater, paper sabbats. How many UDEF units are investigating and processing and filtering false reports on Catalan policies? Who's driving them? Who pays them? That's what I want to know, the citizenry. Who put a beacon on President Puigdemont's car? Who? How many secret agents are there in Belgium and Germany chasing President Puigdemont? How many prosecutors are adjusting information to justice? Is the Catalonia operation still in place? Who gives cover to violent outrage? Who's giving them cover? Why can they act with impunity? And it is that the process, lords of the State, has raised the taps of the police locksmith, and what they saw did not please them, neither to you nor to us. And that's what makes us. And that's not what I'm saying, that's what I'm saying to a man of state, the man of state par excellence, that the last service he did was to allow the monarchic success, and Minister of the Interior, Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba. He told Onda Zero, this generation: "The state will pay the cost of taking Puigdemont out of the way. And ben orchestrat, because he said: "What we are discussing now is how much we pay. And he recommended to the Government: "Be skilled in strategy, because the discredit of the state is the least possible. The man did not get out; the discredit has been terrible and the European justice is able to validate a management of a judge from here. In view of all this, it is very necessary for us to make commissions of inquiry, we do not have to do it; we do not need to know what all the forces and security of the State that participated in operations before and after October 1st are doing. We want to do them because we want to know what happened; you were asking them because what they wanted to do here was a media game that we didn't want to enter. And we don't want to focus on the Mosses, which seems to be transparency, when what they want to do is a witch hunt for the police forces in Catalonia. For all that I have said to you, for all this, we will vote against your motion for a resolution; not because we have transparency. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.83.0	Thank you, Mr. Roquer. It is now the return of the Republican Parliamentary Group. It's Mr. Peris's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.84.0	All right. Good morning. President, deputies, deputies, president Torra, many thanks. And above all – above all – have now, in my first intervention in this Faristol, a record for the companies that are imprisoned and exiled – before we named them all – and, therefore, I believe that it has already become completely clear. The first, the first important consideration to make, is that the government to whom you say you want to question today is largely closed in prison of the Spanish State – more concretely, the one that has made the Councillor of the Interior, in Quim Forn, pateix, he pateix, the bitterest and most inhuman face of repression, which is the preventive prison –, as well as the extension of his family and friends, forcing them to make more than 1,200_kilometres every time they want to see them. I would also like to make a special mention of the company, and I, like myself, César Puig, who was a secretary of the Interior and was terminated for 155. And without oblivion of one of the professionals most involved in his profession and vocation, like Major Trapero, today unjustly relegated to labors and administrative tasks the fruit of the 155's mobbing. These three companies that I have named in a normal country would continue to occupy, and with honors, their places of responsibility for demonstrating their professional ability in managing the storms of last August in Barcelona and Cambrils, where in just over forty-eight hours disarticulated the terrorist cell that struck us all Catalans and Catalans have been. And, of course, that's what we're talking about in the committee created to its effect. And, naturally – naturally – to dignify and respect the work and professionalism of the Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadney Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadn Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadn Squadron The second appreciation that I would like to make, and so they tell us, is that they want to create this commission of inquiry – and I read it literally – according to the information that appears at the press. There you go! And here I have to stop; I have to stop because I have put myself on the lookout for this information, and it turns out that the first media that publishes this news is the same media that it has or has a direct channel with the CIA – yes, as I say: with the CIA – that publishes in its day the famous following is the text of the note. Therefore, and to focus, now yes, on the background of this PR, as a deputy republic always – always – I will be in favour of any measure to strengthen our democracy, despite the efforts of some to weaken it. To strengthen democracy, of course, means that it must be old for political rights, for civil rights and for the full freedom of movement of any citizen, demanding maximum transparency and responsibilities, when they are close, to whom they are and when they are, with the clear will that every suspect must always be emptied in order to preserve this common good that we have freedom. And, therefore, we are always in favour of putting on those facts that are not very clear and that allow us to discover after improving society. We can therefore speak of transparency – if they want, of course – because transparency cannot be measured by us, as you claim, Lords of Ciutadans; transparency is to exercise it with all the letters and with all the contents of the word. And in this sense, we have our own ideas: to expand focus, to zoom in, to make this commission bigger and to make it better. That's why we proposed some ideas, such as this – certainly not accepted by you –: creating a commission of inquiry into espionage and activities to follow up on different police and security bodies to certain leaders and members of political parties, unions, movements and social organizations, journalists and other police, security, information, inside and outside Catalonia. They won't accept it. Or another: to determine whether there are concrete cases in which leaders and members of political parties, unions, movements, social organizations, journalists, other police, security and information bodies were subjected to espionage and following their activities. Neither is the summer acceptance. Unfortunately – and so I must say, and so I say, with this sincerity – you did not want to accept any of our group's concerns – of the Republican Left –, of the Juntes per Catalunya or of the CUP. And here I would like to be just commenting on the very good predisposition of Mr Nuet's fellow Members, of the commons, and Mrs Escarp, of the PSC, that until the last moment, and with sincere intention of reaching agreements, we would be sure of the negotiating table, when we already practically had an agreement closed. Surely, therefore, as they see that the agreement was possible, if even there has been an agreement that could be extended to create this committee, they have – and I say with sadness – made the usual one: to block items without accepting to modify either a single one or bring the debate where they want, where each time they are more alone, lords of Ciutadans, each time they are more alone, where they feel more comfortable and do not force anything else– to do so; they are only forced, so alone, to feed the confrontation, to feed the discourse of the division, and, guessed beyond this presumptive proposal of resolution, to return to the "fregate, to the pantanous land, where they are moved with authentic predators. And I know hard, very hard; I came here to do politics and to do it for all the citizens. And if we demand controls, commissions of investigation, mechanisms of prevention, etc., which reflect this same PR, I am surprised that when we take the challenge of joining us - it is precisely you who will see any question because they have something to do with it. That they can't ask other bodies to be included in this commission, too? That we can't zoom in and enrich the contents of this PR? So it looks like it's not. In short, Ciutadans has made us accustomed: to seek confrontation, division, and to make – as they will now – victims. They refused to accept any item from the three groups that they had submitted, despite the fact that these improved the proposal and above all allowing it to be approved even for the sake of unanimity. The objective of this group was clear: investigation, yes, but of all the police, of all the bodies. Still, it seems that Ciutadans' object is not to investigate, but to notify the Catalan professionals. They've already done it with the teachers and professionals of the public communication media, and today they're trying to do it with the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Everyone knows that Esquerra Republicana is willing to investigate and put it on everything else, because we believe in a democracy of quality and with maximum transparency. Unfortunately, Ciutadans seems to already have the girls' conclusions and it seems that he does not seek transparency or clarify the facts, but a platform of criminalization of a collection. And, before these intentions, we don't want to get into the game, and before that, the investigation always, yes, always; criminalizing and signing collections, no, never. So – and today we also had one more finding, and that's what it was, and that's what it was, I think, that I didn't want to do – we saw as you did them more because of a dark spot than you had to give support to some assumptions of the party that yesterday was condemned for a corruption case. So, before these intentions of the Ciutadans Group, that in no case are they to put on the facts but to wear down the image of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and before the refusal to accept any question, we will vote negatively on its proposal. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.85.0	Thank you, Mr. Peris. Next, to indicate the items that are accepted and the text that is put to the vote, Mr. Alonso has the word for two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.86.0	Thank you, President. From the point of view, I merely say that, as has already been said, there has been a compromise attempt that has unfortunately not reached a good place. And, therefore, they rejected the submissions by the groups proposing the submissions. And we vote on the motion for a resolution to create this commission of inquiry in the original format. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-25-1001.87.0	All right. Thank you. We're calling it a vote. Meanwhile, is there a separate request for a vote? Don't you? [[Pause.]] You can vote all in one piece, can't you? [[Pause.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution creating a committee of inquiry into the espionage of journalists and politicians by the Government of the Generality. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 64 votes to 68, with no abstentions. There's no point in the order of the day. Therefore, the session rises. Thank you very much.
