ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.1.0	MPs and MPs, Vagina are on their respective escons. Let's start the session. The list of questions to answer the Ple orally is included in the dossier and, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules, will be replaced this morning as the first item on the agenda of this plenary session. Before starting with this order of the day, the record that, according to Rule 95 of the Rules, the deputies Raquel Sans and Adriana Delgado, for reasons of motherhood, have delegated their vote to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and that the deputy Pol Gibert, for reasons of fatherhood, has delegated his vote to the deputy Eva Granados, spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance. So, I am sure that the deputy Antonio Espinosa has delegated his vote, tomorrow, you said, because of the hospitalisation, in the deputy Carlos Carrizosa, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. I also remember that Members Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva have appointed Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights. The first item on the agenda is the oral questions to the Government. [[Question to the Government on the protection of children]] [[310-00066/12]] The first question, to be answered orally in plenary session..., is about the protection of childhood, and the question is made by Mrs Naomi de la Calle, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.2.0	Good morning, everybody. Counseller, recently to a question from my parliamentary group answered us that from January 2017 to June 2018 2,500 foreign teenagers had arrived without family references, and acknowledged that as of June 2018, the DGAIA had only welcomed 1,521, of which a part would have arrived before 2017. Can you tell us where the more than a thousand minors who were not in a residential resource are?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.3.0	To answer, has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani, Counsellor of Work, Social Afers and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.4.0	Thank you, President. Member, I do want, before I begin, to place the condol and support of the family and friends of the victim of the railway accident that we suffered yesterday in this country, and that shows the need to give all the support to the family, the friends and the wounded right now. Secondly, respect your question – we have explained it on more than one occasion –, the smaller it passes to the protection system, to be between the protection system..., what you do not count is that, during the same period, there are smaller ones that come from the protection system, so it is given this ride, they are not closed dates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.6.0	Look, counselor, they're over a thousand minors; admit you don't know where they are. Do you realize the demeanor? Do you realize that you have lost all credibility, that you have lied so many times that no one believes you anymore? How many times have they denied that the children still slept on the floor of the police stations, when they still sleep on them? How many times have they denied the situation of DGAIA? You have unprotected both workers, who do what they can with the few resources they have, and minors, because it is no longer that our parliamentary group, which we have been denouncing since the last legislature, has said that the workers have come out to protest the violence they suffer and because they do not have enough resources to care for minors. And, look, not only do we say it, the Mossos call the DGAIA's attitude with the MENA irresponsible. DGAIA workers report that minors are not being protected. You spend more energy trying to hide reality than managing it properly. Once again, they allocate sufficient resources so that professionals can carry out an educational and therapeutic action and so that minors do not flee. Remember that these minors are your responsibility and you are the last one responsible for your guardianship. And it's so out of control that they don't even get the bills. There are a thousand minors who have disappeared, which you have lost. Do you know, counselor, where they are part of those thousand minors? Do you know where they are? They're on the street. Stop accusing the messenger, stop accusing the opposition for showing what's going on, stop accusing the workers for denouncing the institutional abuse of their council, and take this seriously. They're not lying to us anymore and they're tracking us down, they're tracking down those minors. And if you're about to give great headlines and then do nothing, if you're about to cover it up and not solve it, let someone who does want to manage this situation and not hide it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.7.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.8.0	Thank you, President. Look, what they're asking for, and what they're asking all the parliamentary groups and, in general, the whole society, is that they're around this point that we have as a country we're moving together and we're finding solutions together. You place some data that are not real, because in the data lock now, on or of October, you have arrived three thousand and fewer unaccompanied at the length of these months, and we have it in the three thousand system. In the system they enter and exit, because we also have smaller ones that are in the post-titling system, and we work around a logic that is, first, the collide of emergence; second, inclusive and collide; third, emancipation and socio-laboral integration. Some of us have presented a project, which is an example, and we will have nine hundred places in nine-opportunities centers for this profile of minors, and we will continue to work on it. From this point on, what we need to be aware of is that the DGAIA does not have closed centres; the DGAIA does not limit freedom to young people, and in some cases we have problems around road ducts, that we work there and that we work in depth, because they will not be able to solve overnight. From here, I believe that what fits into this environment is, one, to be aware that we are not an island, is a reality that is lived in France, that is lived in Sweden, that is lived in the Spanish State. Two, be aware that young people have gone through various protection systems before arriving at the Catalan protection system, basically because of a geographic issue, and from here, our job is to bond, our job is to take over and our job is to get that when they come out of the system...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.9.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.10.0	...of protection are not vulnerable. And here we are.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.11.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about separatist command assignments to citizens and public authorities in public space and private homes]] [[310-00067/12]] The next question is about the allocation of separatist commands to the citizen and public authorities to public space and private homes. The question is posed by Mr. José María Cano of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.12.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor, in recent times we have suffered a disturbing and intolerable campaign of harassment and lynching of citizens, judges and public offices by radical groups of separatism. And in the face of this grave situation, we ask you, Mr. Counsellor, what is your Government and, in particular, the Home Office doing to guarantee the security, rights and freedoms of citizens?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.13.0	To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.14.0	Thank you, President. Also add me to the condol samples to the victim of yesterday's train accident in Vacarisses. Look, Congressman, the police in Catalonia are a democratic police that investigates criminal acts as a complaint, as a police officer, regardless of ideological affiliation. And as public servers serve all Catalans and Catalans and, therefore, the responsibility is to represent all Catalans and Catalans and to age for their security. I ask them to you and if you also show the same energy at the time of recriminating according to what attitudes on one side or on the other. I also ask him if he is deprived, for example, of the insults suffered by the councillor, the councillor of Culture, at the time of saying to him "supremacist, or to the same president, say "supremacist, if they act in the same way for some or others, or act only for one side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.16.0	Look, Mr. Counsellor, you've been in office for almost half a year and things are still the same, and unfortunately. And they're not just the same, they're going to get worse. We find ourselves painted in Judge Llarena's building, with signals to the neighbors, with slavery to the acts of constitutionalist political parties, with attacks on homes and public office vehicles. I myself, in your city, which is also mine, in Premià de Mar, have suffered the actions of intolerants in an attempt to silence those who think differently. The last one, last Saturday in an act we had in the Great Way. An acquaintance of hers, the same ANC, in a Facebook post appreciates the help of separatist commands to silence and end public and political freedoms of citizens. But I'm not surprised either because you're part of that plot. I have to remind you that when you were mayor of Premià de Mar you were meeting with these people and other separatist groups in the mayor's office to organize an illegal referendum and try to twist the sentences and thus avoid obeying them. Look, if that happens in your own city, what won't happen in other cities of our autonomous community. Mr. Buch, with you at the head of the Home Office you do not live in freedom in Catalonia. You do not live in freedom because you have become the guardian and are the guardian of the process. He is the guardian of nationalism, causing the environment to be breathless in many towns and cities in Catalonia. That is why much of the citizenry does not consider it legitimate to defend its security, freedom and rights. And they don't consider it because you haven't been put there for that, they haven't been put there to guarantee security. You've been placed to keep things the same even worse. You have been placed to manage the squeeze. And those who have put it to their finger have already made sure to choose a person who, within his small and exclusive universe, is only those who think like him. Look, Mr Buch, you are not qualified to guarantee the security, rights and freedoms of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.17.0	To answer the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.18.0	I begin by reminding you that the only one deprived of liberty in this country are political prisoners, the only ones. [[Greetings.]] The only ones who are deprived of freedom are political prisoners. I already understand that you form part of yours, let's say,... And last week we presented a dictionary of police words, I think we could soon present a dictionary of the words that City uses as xiringuit, etc. And the arguments they serve, which are pessimistic arguments with the will to divide this country and to divide its people. Miri, the only will that these people have that say with people who meet, the only will they have is that all Catalans, all of them Catalans and Catalans in this country can vote for an equal. Unlike you just looking for one side. Look, I didn't see them defending strongly the success of the State's keychains for Spanish State police, in which Catalan politicians are criminalized and sought lies in Catalan policies. I also found them defending the President of the Generality when they filled it last week, a town like Verges, of Shilades, insulting the President of the Generality and President Puigdemont. I haven't found them here. Therefore, they only defend one side. Nor do I find them at the time of... well, we do find them at the time of walking a bus in which you have already condemned political prisoners who have not so far had a trial, are in pre-trial detention, and you have already condemned them, and even they are talking about indult. So they're sure they'll be sentenced to jail. Therefore, I ask you, please, to do a good for this country and look at the whole country in a unitary way, at all Catalans and Catalans in a joint way, do not just look at one side and repeat what one and the other applauds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the administration of the economic resources of the Generalitat]] [[310-00068/12]] The next question is about the administration of the economic resources of the Generality and the formulation of it by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.20.0	Yes; thank you, President. We also join in the condolences of yesterday's railway accident in Vacarisses. Mr Counsellor, good morning, a week ago the Court of Auditors condemned Mr Mas, Mr Homs, Mrs Rigau and Ortega to pay the EUR 5 million spent on 9 November. That money was public money, it came out of the arks of the Generalitat and you, as the first star measure of your government, renounced to claim it. Are you now satisfied that you can count on the additional 5_million for the Court of Auditors' decision on social expenditure, or do you find it wrong, Mr. Counsellor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the words of Mr Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.22.0	Thank you very much, President. The judgment of the Court of Auditors is not firm and, therefore, we would expect it to remain firm in order to take the appropriate decisions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.23.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.24.0	Well, you haven't answered my question, Mr. Aragonès. With 5_million_euros you know very well what can be done. More than 140 secondary education teachers can be paid per year, 208 children's education educators, 926 child care places, 2,500 university enrolments, 500 day-round residential places, 1,416 day-to-day care places per year. All that is what can be done with 5_million_euros that people paid out of their taxes for those purposes, not for illegal purposes. And it is very strange to us that the adviser who has to ensure that all Catalans comply with their tax obligations, precisely to the friends, looks at them with other eyes and forgives them their debts, and does not claim them. While the rest of the Catalans are squeezed, they are put on surcharges, they are fined, what is it called to forgive the friends the debts they have with the Generalitat? Is it friendship? Is it favoritism? Is it prevarication? What is it? What do we call it? I would call it impunity, the impunity that you have already provided for in your transitory bodrio law, that in which you applied the procedure clause: everything you do protected under the procedure mark is free, it is impunity. Well, no, Mr. Counselor, that's not how the rule of law works. In the rule of law, everyone is equal and there is no specific impunity for politicians. Therefore, we demand that you recover the money, not only that which was spent by Mr Mas and all those mentioned in the 9-N, but also those of Mr Puigdemont, although you say that you will claim the damages of 155, which, by the way, were your responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.25.0	Congressman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] There's a new word from the vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.26.0	Thank you, President. First of all, the judgment of the Court of Auditors is not firm. Secondly, do you wonder where the good part of this EUR 5 million that the Court of Auditors says is? So, they are at the schools of our country, in the form of computers, computers that exist at the schools of our country. But, of course, from a Court of Auditors where you make this decision is an ex-PP minister, what can we expect? What can we expect? This is the great division of powers that you defend from this great democratic state that is the Spanish State. I, if I want to talk about debt, we're talking about debt. We are talking about the debts that are in Catalonia's State of Autonomy, the third additional provision, which you have never claimed; you have never claimed it when you speak to the Government of the Spanish State. Are we talking about deities? Or what we could do, for example, with some of the expenses that the Spanish State did last October with the deployment of the National Police and the Civil Guard: 87_million euros, recognized for the Ministry of the Interior that was spent here. [[Greetings.]] How many choices can you open? How many concert places could we set up? How many lines of help could we do? Therefore, you, Mr. Carrizosa, think also, at the time of claiming debts, because still..., you went to collect and entangle him for debts, Mr. Carrizosa, to you and the vision of the Spanish State that you defend. Because you have not been at the expense of the Government of Catalonia claiming to the State, for example, the debts in the area of the Law of Dependency – 50_percent of the financing corresponds to the State. At these times they are paying for the Law of Dependence more for co-payment than for contribution from the State. When did we hear you, Mr. Carrizosa, claim this debt with the State? - When did we hear it? It's just that there are a few debtors that interest them and some debtors that don't. And, I remember, you are so pleased with the courts, that you have already accused me of prevaricating, directly, you have already done it here – you, accustomed to threatening this government, trying to turn this Parliament into a courtroom and not a place where it is parliamentaryly debated – you, who are already accusing me of prevaricating, with a judgment of the Court of Auditors that is not firm, so you should know, Mr Carrizosa, that at the time of claiming the debts of Catalonia, we are always the first ones – the first ones –, and especially before a State that is repeatedly incomplete, and you go away, when the State has to pay for the city of Catalonia. Therefore, we ask them to do us as well in the claim of debts in front of the State. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.27.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about public investment in education]] [[310-00063/12]] The next question is about the public investment in education and the formula Mrs Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.28.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, honourable Councillor Bargalló. This past disbanded, in Barcelona there was a demonstration called for the MUCE, the Marc Unitari of the Educational Community, that what he proposed is..., required a major commitment investor in educational matters. As you know, we have underfunded public education, at levels of little more than 2_per_cent and, therefore, we invest less than Spain's conjunction, and we are far too far away from investing European countries around us and, obviously, also of the 6_per_cent that marks Catalonia's own Education Law. We are a few weeks away from knowing, in principle, the assumption that you can – we will see – present to this Parliament, and we would like to know what is the compromise of your Government for which it makes the necessary increase in investment in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.29.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the advisor d'Ensenyament, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.30.0	Thank you, President. Member, I have already said more than once that the calculation of investments respects the gross domestic product in the cases of the autonomous communities is complex, complicated, and not everyone agrees, and the figures that are given from various areas, in the case of the investment in Catalonia are from 2,4_per_cent, which are the lowest, to almost 4_per_cent, which are the highest. But we won't discuss the figures, but I agree with you that the generality's own assumptions must contain a significant increase in educational reversal, and I am convinced that when you know them you will see that this is so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.31.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.32.0	Thank you, Counselor. We value positively that you take on this commitment, but also allow you to raise doubts that this increase that you plant on us seems enough to face the many challenges we have. In the first place, the recovery by the Government of the co-responsibility in the matter of the zero-three educational stage. You have announced it publicly, that you will recover this co-responsibility, but you are about to see what part of the total cost of the public square ends up assuming its department, and obviously also the return calendar that came up proposing and agreeing with the assemblies. Second place, the inclusive school really. Yesterday I said that you at these times are not guaranteeing it. The inclusive school is much more than having a few hours of vetting in the week, and now as the government is not giving enough attention to students with special educational needs. That's a compliment to the letter of the same decree. Suitable raties. We need to ensure better educational attention at all stages, but especially at the secondary level, and a greater boost from vocational training; decided steps to combat school segregation and obviously also the recovery of the rights and conditions of teachers prior to retailing. At these times, counselor, we are not only of the few autonomous communities that have not yet reversed the detail, but we are worse than 2010. In 2010 we had a non-university public expenditure of almost 5,300_million euros and at these times the expenditure not up to 5,000_million euros, when we have 67,000 more students, more needy education and greater complexity in the classrooms. Counselor, we are not asking you to move from 2 to 6 per cent in a single presuppositionary exercise, but you do give clear signs that public education will be a real priority for your government, that they believe in education as a real state structure, this yes. We'll see about that, Counselor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.33.0	To answer, you've got the word "adviser" again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.34.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, the President of the Generality and the Vice-President have already said several times that the assumptions of the Generality will clearly see the bet of this Government for education. I can't tell you what the teaching department's premise will be, because the government hasn't approved it yet, but I can tell you that some of the fears that you've already made have been made public that they will be: there will be zero-three funding, according to local authorities and according to the will to arrive, in a first stage, we have already said, at 1.200_euros per place, together with the participation of the disputations; there will be inclusive school measures, obviously there will be inclusive school measures, because we have to implement the decree, and there will be measures of expansion of the teaching staff and of better working conditions, obviously. As we agree with you and I in these petitions, I see that it will be very easy for your group to support these assumptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.35.0	The next question is... [[Ask the Government about the Ubiq device]] [[310-00061/12]] ... on the Ubiq provision and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.36.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor Buch, from the month of generation to the month of August of the year 2018, criminal acts in Barcelona have increased by an 18_per_cent respect to the same period of the past year, and while there has been a decrease in complaints of violations in the ordinances of coexistence and citizenship to the city, the perception of citizenship is that the wandering sale and the consumption and sale of alcoholic beverages in the street, together with crimes against property, of which we previously spoke, have caused a sense of insecurity, and mobilizations to different barrels, which have transcended in the communication media. We know that there has been an increase in police presence and activity, there have been different preventive tasks that include advice in communication means, in associations of veins, in associations of traders, and even in operators of the metro or the same Renfe. In addition, there are some areas in Barcelona where this feeling of insecurity and this increase in crime is higher than in other areas. In all these areas, there are a number of conducts and situations which are common in these places in which there are more criminal acts, which are: the presence of persons identified as presumed responsible for different types of criminal acts and which are subject to police or judicial action; also the sale, sale and consumption of narcotic substances in public life, such as in habitats or in public places; the youth, display and use of weapons and other objects and instruments that are dangerous for the integrity of persons; the realization of acts which are unlawful in public life related to the sale, sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages, carried out both by authors and by victims of acts of crime; the realization of acts which are unlawful in public life and which are related to the sale, sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages, which are carried out by authors as well as by persons who are victims of acts of crime; the sale or sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages, which are presumed to be carried out in other areas. Do they have all these characteristics, and do they have all these data, what actions have led to the completion of their department, and what actions last from now on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.37.0	To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.38.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, the Ubiq operation is basically centered as of November 1st, because on October 29th it was done that operation that you must remember, the result of a judicial investigation, which involved forty entrances to Ciutat Vella, with which they recovered fifteen floors, fifteen occupied floors, there were fifty-eight detainees and divided went into prison, from these fifty-eight detainees, okay? A little bit of this macro-operation, from here on out, so, it was pulled into the Ubiq device, which is basically an implementation of a preventive patrol system and saturation reaction, mainly uniforms, so, working a little squared in one way, let's say, saturation. Resources from the Regional Area of Operational Resources, the Regional Group of Motorcycles, the Metropolitan Police Region of Barcelona, which will strengthen the resources already allocated to the Basic Area of Police, are involved. So let's just say that we have more regional resources. Obviously, this whole device adapts to every point and moment, to every reality, and so let's just say, it's not a strict or punctual device for a concrete area, but it adapts to every reality we have. There are three axes, which are high visibility, dynamism and flexibility. And the objectives are basically: identification of presumed authors; identification and proof to prevent stupefying substances, weapons and other dangerous objects; denouncing for the Law of Protection of Citizen Security or Public Health; working with the Urban Guard to complete the order of citizenship and coexistence; identification and derivation corresponding to the prosecution – or to whom it corresponds – of presumed offenders; carrying out administrative inspections, and making contact with us, also to be permanently in contact with us. And the main areas of action are the barrels of Raval, Gòtic, Sant Pere, Barceloneta and the Maritime Front, it is clear that Barcelona has two districts and, therefore, that we have now concentrated in this area that I have told you concretely, but that it is not ruled out to be able to work in case the phenomenon has a mobility. I want to highlight the efforts of the agents, because you know that six years ago we didn't have a promotion from Mosso and, therefore, all this was done with the same moves we had six years ago and with a reinforcement..., personal of them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.39.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.40.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.41.0	The next question is... [[Ask the Government about the implementation of new businesses in Catalonia]] [[310-00062/12]] ...about the implementation of nine companies in Catalonia. The formula, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Anna Erra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.42.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Lately the communication media is a fan of the increase of new international entrepreneurs' deployments to our territories; news like that central Catalonia, at Camp de Tarragona and the metropolitan area of Barcelona have led the growth of the Catalan economy this 2017 and part of 2018, as the BBVA Economic District Yearbook says. News like these are coming out repeatedly this last month. With these data it is shown that part of the Catalan economy has done its dues and has overcome a complex situation in part. And it also shows that this growth is driven above all by the strengthening of exports and a conversion of the productive structure, especially in the industrial and service sectors, and that it has led to a significant improvement in productivity. And it also sees the ability to implement foreign companies that are choosing our territory as their own. In the face of these data and positive evidence, we find very irresponsible the catastrophic report of some parts of the 155 block, which still, and repeatedly and slightly contrasted with the economic indicators that we currently have, continue to explain a reality that is not given to our country. For all this, Counselor, what is the government's understanding of the deployments of new businesses in Catalonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, Business and Knowledge Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.44.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. From the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge we work to foster a productive, innovative, sustainable, inclusive and world-wide economy, because we understand that, more than generating quality jobs, this is the ecosystem that is precisely looking for foreign investors, investors that we want to capture, of high added value. We want investments that promote the internationalization of the Catalan economy, enrich the value chain and generate more talent, quality jobs. Miri, in the 1980s Catalonia was chosen as the destination of reversal for its low production costs, also for the logistical situation and to supply the local market; but today we find that the investments that come to us are seeking above all talent, innovation and excellence, and we combine this with three vectors. The first of them is the Trade & Investment agency, of Action; the second, to be present and also to promote relevant events at world level, and the third, the Barcelona & Catalonia Startup Hub. Regarding the first, Action, Catalonia Trade & Investment and the more than forty foreign offices that the Department of Action has all over the world to promote Catalonia – they have now celebrated the thirty years –, prepare the candidatures and advise investors... And it is that the year 2017 was captured one project every five days; for every public euro on investment expense it was achieved ninety-five euros of investment, and the main countries have been United States, Japan, France... Today I can tell you that we are managing much more than last year, more than 390 investment projects. The third of the elements that was on it... yesterday we celebrated the event of Startup Hub. We are the first start-up hub in all of southern Europe, the fifth in position in the European race and the fourth for investment. Today these new tech start-ups, many of them foreigners too, occupy 13,280 people. Therefore, we will prioritise major investment-emitting countries, relevencies and leaders, strategic projects of high added value and investments in technology, because we want this economy open to the world, innovative, sustainable and inclusive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the details applied to various departments by making the resources compromised for 2018]] [[310-00060/12]] The next question is about the details applied to various departments for which it makes compromised resources for 2018. And the formula is Mr David Cid, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.46.0	Good morning, Vice President. You, last October, ordered the departments of the Generality to detail, in this case, the expenses of different departments. While Catalonia in Comú We can secure an agreement to increase 38_per_cent of the resources allocated to housing at the level of the State, you retail a 30_per_cent help by logging to the Barcelona Assembly. Counselor, are you applying detail to the assumption of the year 2018?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of Mr Pere Aragonès, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.48.0	Thank you, Mr. President. No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.49.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.50.0	Miri, counselor, I am convinced that you will rectify, and rectify because we have hooked them, because... we have caught them with our hands in the mass, as it is said in the castle, and will rectify above all because the detail in habitat is not the best presentation card for his mayor's candidate, Mr. Ernest Maragall. This is why you will correct the detail in housing policies, in this case the Barcelona Assembly. And, look, I'm telling you: it won't be the last conflict we'll have in housing; if not, ask Mr. Damià Calvet, who's doing the job in this case to Barcelona city promoters. I say this: we will have more conflicts, in this case in habitation. Because I honestly say so, counselor: when we are not there, you retaliate, because your social turn, the social turn supposedly left, is neither there nor expected. You don't let them rule or rule. You run the situation of unaccompanied minors in a disastrous way; you do not pay, in this case, the guardianship centres that run minors; you have room for teachers, you have room for teachers, you have room for teachers, you have room for students, and the Mossos do not make them vague because they cannot make them vague, but if they do not make them vague. Look, you probably, maybe – and so I wish – will make an exception in the housing detail, but, as Mrs. Artadi said yesterday, when she publicly said, in this case, the Presidency Counsellor, Mrs. Artadi..., you will probably make an exception, but there are no and there will be no details. Because you're still stuck to the flaps, and, I insist, if we're not, you're gonna chop. And so I'm going back to asking, why can you deny the reality, but it's what you're doing: are you applying detail to different departments of the Generality? Can I deny that there are no Generality research centres to which you are limiting the expenditure and applying them to detail and even to already compromised expenditure? If we're told by the workers in these centers! So don't deny reality. And I ask him: will he apply details in the presupposition of the year 2018? It will apply details in the presupposition of the year 2019 respect to the presupposition executed – respect to the executable, not on the presupposition of 2017. And, I insist, it's not the best way to start negotiating assumptions. By the way, we're on November 21st and he hasn't called us yet. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.51.0	There's a new word from the vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.52.0	Let's start with the principle. You say: "We have deceived them. Look, listen to me, here is the Official Gazette of the Generality, October 5, in which there is an advanced accounting tank to the Generality for, obviously, a risk of deviation from the deficit. Certainly, this great government of the State, which you are its great defenders, sends us on September 18 a letter threatening us, precisely, of a possible presuppositional deviation and of applying the Presuppositional Enabling Law, therefore, the first step towards which could be a new financial intervention of the Generality, if we do not take action. So, obviously, we have as our objective, first of all, to avoid new intervention measures by the Ministry of Hysenda; obviously, we also have the possibility to achieve the presuppositional stability in order to finance adequately many of the demands that are made in this chamber and that we, therefore, take the appropriate measures for, in an exercise in which there has been an increase in the execution of expenditure in the field of salvation or in which we have continued to contribute to the contingency to attend to the situation of the unaccompanied minors, in which there has been an increase in the expenditure of health care for the reduction of the lists of hope or for the financing, also, of the teachers who have taken part in this process, in which there has been an increase in the expenditure of health care for the reduction of the backlogs of hope, and also of the teachers who have taken part in the administration of our country, which is obviously, in fact, the administration of our country. Therefore, I think you should also look forward to the gathering. Obviously, these measures are all that uncompromising expense... so there's a precautionary reservation. This precautionary reservation can be managed with exceptions. And in this case that you mentioned, from the Habitat Consortium, Councilman Calvet called for an exception and we reached an agreement around that. Therefore, this is a government that administers and this is a government that has as its objective that the maximum resources are dedicated to the areas in which our society needs it. And don't worry, we'll have the opportunity to talk about assumptions. He knows my commitment and that of the government to reach a broad agreement, and we would expect his positive attitude so that we can reach that agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.53.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the convenient transfer of the Figueres prison centre to the Department of Education]] [[310-00064/12]] The next question is about the convenience of transferring the Figueres prison centre to the Department of Education. And the formula Mrs Mònica Palacín, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.54.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor Bargalló, good morning. On November 15, Vice President Aragonès, together with the Councillor of Justicia, the Lady Capella, and you yourself, presided over the signature of the agreement for the transfer of the prison centre of Figueres to the Department of Education, because I built the new Carmel Guasch school. The act took place in the former prison of Figueres, where the president insisted on the government's clear commitment to public education, as a tool, a guarantee to create a society where they are under-prisoned. In this sense it ensured that the teaching will be one of the priorities of the assumptions of the Generality of 2019, it referred to the seven-thousand most respected masters of 2015 and the willingness to consolidate as fixed workers the masters who were in an inter-initiation situation. The old prison of Figueres was closed in 2010, and later the space passed into the hands of the General Directorate of Heritage, and the Department of Education asked to be able to dispose of the centre with educational purposes. It has passed the time and it has not just reached agreement, but today, eight years later, the situation seems to have finally disbanded and it has been possible to formalize this transposition that will make the old prison pass at the hands of the Teaching, that will turn the building into the future school Carme Guasch. With this change of title it is possible that a school that has been in prefabricated modules since 2006 can be transferred to the old premises of the prison centre. Therefore, this centre will have a punitive character to be a centre of hope and future. Vice-President Aragonès reproduced the phrase that Clara Campoamor used in her speech as a deputy at the Congress of Deputies; he said: "We hold and open schools, a phrase of high social content that already in the 19th century the Galician writer Concepción Arenal, a precursor of the feminist movement in Spain, a pioneer in claiming equality in all social spheres, he said; he said: "Open schools and prisons will be closed. Counselor, what's the government's understanding of how to transfer the Figueres prison center to the Teaching Department? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the Councillor of Education, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.56.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, as you say, you said before you signed this agreement from which the old prison of Figueres, which is the heritage of the Generality, is from educational use. This responds, for a song, to a historical petition from the city, and also to the willingness to resolve infrastructure deficiencies. I would like to make it clear, first of all, that the Carme Guasch school, which at these times is in prefabricated modules and which is the one that will be built in the district of the old prison of Figueres, will be built in the green space that is around the prison – not in the prison building, huh? , in the green space there is in prison –, for obvious reasons: first, of presuppositional efficiency, and then, of better possibility to give the student a new infrastructure. At the building of the old prison, the one that is considered good of local interest, huh? , the part that is well qualified for local interest, will become to have various educational uses that we have of..., or what we will do and talk to the assembly and that, in fact, the signature act to which you refer was the first public act to which the new mayor of Figueres attended. And in that passage we already talked to the mayor to start working to see what we do with the building, but always with this willingness to bring to the city a powerful educational infrastructure, in a building, let's say, historical, and more to reverse the memory: from a building that was the symbol of repression to a building that is the symbol of formation and of the future. We will work at first in the construction of the Carme Guasch school, and later in the refitting of the building for this various uses of education, with this intention of remembering these maximum republicans that you thought, that every time we train a student well we are forming a city inserted into society and, therefore, we are symbolically closing the cell of a prison. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the participation of the educational community in the big debates on teaching]] [[310-00065/12]] The next question is about the participation of the educational community in the big debates about teaching. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernat Sole's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.58.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counsellor, the history of education has always been linked to the constant renewal of its own system, with the aim of anticipating future societies of every moment. The constant changes and each faster time of the world that surround us ask us, day after day, the exercise of rethinking the model or, if not, of adapting everything that makes it possible. The frantic advent of the new technologies, the social reality every time more diverse, the new models of family or work, or the acquired values that will allow the child's personal development are examples of this system that walks undisturbedly. At the same time, the determination of any government to build a transparent, just and democratic society requires that decision-making on the major issues in the country should involve all the agents involved, both individually and collectively. During these last few days, we have seen how the Department of Education has enabled a space of civic participation, through which everyone can bring what you consider appropriate in such transcendental issues as the type of buildings that our schools and institutes need, the language model of our education system or the food service we want for our students. Precisely, there has been this repositioning of the space of beggars which has generated certain doubts to the educational community of our country. From the parliamentary group that I represent, we are aware that we need to equip ourselves with those legislative tools that, from legal certainty, make this area a fully educated, inclusive and quality area. For all these reasons, counselor, what are the objectives that the Department of Education has set itself in this process of civic participation? And, in the concrete case of the new proposal for the decree of beggars, which is to replace the current one, of the year 1996, what will be the procedure to follow, so that this gift responds to the objective before the consensus and the participation of all the agents involved?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the advisor d'Ensenyament, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.60.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Deputy, as I said in the Ple passage to the answer of a question from the Popular Group, the Department of Education has the obligation to generate debate, to generate debate around many of the themes that conform the day-to-day of our education system, because it is from the debate that we can make decisions, because the debate allows us to listen, allows us to confront. As you said, on our web page we have located, at these times, three topics to debate, to place more. When these issues are discussed, we will move on to the formulations of citizen participation that the same Generality has, which is a further step, and then we will obviously bring it to the government debate. Therefore, it is this willingness to listen, to generate debate, to generate intellectual tensions and theoretical tensions, from which decisions can be made. For what he does to the school cook, he calls a new regulation of school cooks. We have the 1996 regulation before the Law of Education, before the Law of Contracts, when the space of fooder is not understood as an educational space, when it is not about the nutrition of infants and adolescents, when it is not about the food of proximity; therefore, let's say, we have to do all this. And all this is a new regulation, which this new regulation, basically, has to guarantee two things: that AMPAs, the assemblies and the choices that directly manage it can continue to do so and that other management systems that are not correct become correct. It's our compromise, and we'll do that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.292.0	[[Ask the Government about public policies related to sexual and reproductive rights of women]] [[310-00069/12]] The next question is about public policies related to the sexual and reproductive rights of women. The formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature for Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, to the deputy of the Honourable Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.61.0	Good morning. On the International Day Week for the Elimination of Violence against Women, we want to manifest what we believe to be an institutional male-based form of violence, which has always been the least visible and the most silent. And we are getting rid of the information made public by the Observer of sexual and reproductive rights, to which we thank, today, his presence in the plenary, and in which they denounce that more than 80_percent of the users of Pro Vida Catalunya are derived from public social services, a 25_percent of the Barcelona Assembly, a 50_percent of other joints and more than 5_percent of the teams of the public health system, responsible for the Department of Health of the Generality. It is obvious that this question we would like to address to the Councillor of Salut, but, well, as it all deals with different councils, we also believe it is opportune to address it to the Councillor. The public service of care and family planning of the joints and public health system must ensure the information and legal advice, medical and psychological to all women, in order to guarantee the exercise of the right to abortion. Violation of sexual and reproductive rights is a violation of human rights. Adopting a focus on sexual and reproductive rights means that these rights do not only guarantee access to sexual and reproductive health care, but also guarantee the autonomy of women without discrimination. We cannot understand how, from the public services, it derives pregnant women to entities like Pro Vida Catalunya, who pretend to prevent free access to a reproductive, sexual, integral salvation for women and other people with the capacity to conceive. Counselor, does it seem normal that from people's services, which depend on different departments, are women to organizations that deny the right to women? And is it more normal for organizations that attack women's rights to receive public subsidies, for example, from their department? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.62.0	To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.63.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. First of all, the autonomy of women over the property is a human right, you have placed it, and I can assure you that once the government does not tolerate it any further in this sense, and this is the first element of response. Second of all, there's no finance from the departments, no action that tempts the right to decide on women, and that's what I'm saying with absolute certainty. I am aware that there have been cases in Tarragona, as in Natalis, where it has been financed; I can assure you that as long as the social services programme contract is not financed these actions as part of the department has not been financed any action that attempts against the right to decide that they have the gifts in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.64.0	To answer that question, you have the word, again, the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.65.0	Well, counselor, therefore, you will have to talk to Pro Vida, because to the memos of 2017, in his annual memos to Pro Vida Catalunya there is that rep 30,000_euros of public subsidies from the Barcelona City Council and its department of Treball, its department of Treball, Afers Socials and Families. So, someone, here, lies, and therefore, it would be good to have Pro Vida rectified, in any case, if you deny that your public donations department to an entity that denies the right to women a free and free abortion. And, as we know also that it is not a case and the UPC, in fact, did not denounce it to Tarragona, what we have is that there are public institutions that collaborate with ultra-Catholic phonementalist entities that deny the right to life. And, in this case, to thank all feminists who have struggled in conditions far worse than ours to guarantee this right. Please, let's not go back to the right and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.66.0	Congresswoman, time's up. It's been four seconds, yeah. [[Greetings.]] To answer again, the counselor has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.67.0	Thank you, President. Subsidy lines are lines of free competition, and I assure you that, at the moment, it is funding programs that attempt against the right to decide on women. And, here, Tarragona's theme, for example, with Llar Natalis, the one he presented was a residential service that had nothing to do with, that is now being monitored, that in a second part, after all, from the department, we asked for the return of the beast because they did not properly justify it and that, in 2017-2018, they could not even enter the grant because they did not do well and did not present it well. In the competition lines, what I assure you is that I do not plan to attempt against the freedom of women is finance, because I am not a fan of projects in these lines. From here, the free competition makes it possible for any entity to present in these lines and, if the project is the mark of which the objectives of the line are required, it can be held or not a subsidy, because this is called equal conditions at the time of access to the subsidy lines that the department has. From here on out, any aspect that you know, that you represent... we'll open an inspection and do an inspection. We're doing it in the case of Tarragona and whatever it is we're opening. Now, what I can assure you is that there is no line of funding for elements that tempt the right to decide on women. And I'm responding on behalf of the Vergés Councilwoman, because she's on maternity leave, she'd be missing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.68.0	Thank you, Counselor. Let us now turn to the questions of the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the value it makes of the month of October past]] [[317-00036/12]] The first question, the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.69.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Torra, could you evaluate the development of the month of October, which you predicted hot? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.70.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.71.0	President, Congressman, therefore, October leaves us a 214-year-old prosecution record for our company. It seems to me that this is the most... if I may, therefore, the most unfortunate summary of this month of October. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.72.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.73.0	Thank you, President. Well, you predicted a hot month of October and asked Catalan society, I quote: "A new moment of collective disobedience that puts the state in check and that had to be developed in that month. Well, the mandate goal you had set yourself was a huge failure. This obviously does not diminish the gravity of the facts that have been described before and that we have lived, even in the first person and, above all, one, by their symbolic value, which was the attempt to assault the Parliament of Catalonia. Symbolic value, because we all know, in historical terms, that this sort of thing is always prelude to the darkest episodes of our collective history. But even that assault was short, it failed. Catalan society, Mr Torra, has given him a real lesson. I dare say that even a vast majority of independenceists, who will continue to be, have taught him a lesson: their proclamations and lies are no longer believed. Today they know perfectly well that acts of collective disobedience and insurrection do not bring about independence, but that the only thing they cause is serious public order altercations that must be resolved by the Forces and Bodies of State Security, including Mossos – today they also know that Mossos included. He has failed dramatically in his great mandate goal, which was to blow up the Catalan streets in October. You must resign, Mr. Torra; resign, Mr. Torra. And do it, even by yourself. You, this policy is not going to work, and it is noted: you give up parliamentary replicas, you close Parliament in summer, you are perceived melancholy and taciturn by government offices and corridors. Return to the banners, to activism, to your literary outreach activities, in that you are very good, nobody discusses it, but, as a ruler it is a calamity, a real catastrophe. Dismiss, Mr. Torra. Dismiss. Undoubtedly, you will be happy again and the rest of Catalans already, I don't even tell you! Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.74.0	It has the word, again, the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.75.0	Mr. Fernández. No, I liked melancholy and taciturn, didn't I? I have to tell you. I find he's fine and he gives a new spot to the whole fold. You always find some adjectives, really, we're sure. Miri, I, in change, am proud of Catalan society, proud of it. And I will explain to him why; I will explain to him why, during all these months, he has maintained an extraordinary ability to mobilize. You may not be aware of it, but every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every day, every week, every week, thousands of Catalans are trying to express their indignation for an absolutely intolerable fact, as it is that we still keep our companions in prison and exile. We have set aside the four republican ways of action that we intend to set aside, yes, from outer space: the Council for the Republic, internationalizing the cause of the Catalans and I assure you that it is more internationalized than ever and I will dedicate my own months, also, to the world to explain what is happening in the country, what is happening in this judicial system of the country, what is happening, what is happening, what is happening with our right of self-determination. This will be one of my priorities. Two. From the prisons – from the prisons – a courageous political speech is coming out, coratjós, which helps us, which helps us all, eh? , with that currency that I don't..., and they don't have to defend themselves from anything, absolutely nothing, and more, in view of the show of the judiciary these last few weeks. They will, in effect, accuse the Spanish State of everything that is going on and of all this absolutely unjust judgment. Three. From the institutions, from the government, from Parliament to the last of Catalonia's assemblies, they are, and they are once again the vanguard of the independence process. The fourth. We have an organized city, we have strong associations – and there will be much more – that are coming out every day, that are mobilized every day. I have full confidence in the people of Catalonia; I know the time will come, I know we will win the republic. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.76.0	The next question... [[Question to the President of the Generality on the planning of fiscal policies and measures]] [[317-00034/12]] ...the formula of Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.77.0	Yes, good morning, President. We would like to know what your government, the government Torra-Aragonès, intends to do in fiscal matters. What is the tax reform they propose for Catalonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.78.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.79.0	Miri, as the Torra-Aragonese Government and as any government that is raising some assumptions, therefore, we raise every year what may be the new ones on the whole subject of fiscal matters, and, therefore, hoping to be able to discuss them with you, as soon as possible, effectively.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.80.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.81.0	Thank you, President. You didn't answer anything, Mr. Torra. Look, I'm telling you, we want to adopt assumptions that are still social and that are expanding to Catalonia. During these last few weeks for the people in the street to ask me if we will give support and if we will approve the assumptions of the Generality, people who are worried because you see and are patenting the degradation of the public services of Catalonia. Mr. Torra, I don't know if you're talking to people who are in difficult situations; I imagine you are, but if you don't, I'm telling you. People can't wait any longer, because inequality is the deepest fracture that goes through Catalan society, and after a dark decade of austerity and detail, we have the obligation, like political leaders, to cure the wounds. It's time for them to pay for those who always work for the majority; it's time for them to pay for those who are sharing and to accumulate wealth in a few hands. And that's why we have to be brave – and here's where you expect your answer – to rebalance society, to redistribute efforts and wealth, and also to do justice. Because a republican Catalonia – a republican Catalonia – is also the one who knows that no one is more than anyone, and everyone knows that he must contribute to the common good according to his possibilities. President, call resources, resources that can come, from one band, from the general assumptions of the State, and, from the other – and they are not exempt, but they are complementary – from a tax reform that must be brave and progressive for Catalonia. That, from one side, it has to eliminate the fiscal privileges of the rich in inheritance and donation taxes; that it has to reform the IRPF to make the pockets – and say 'pocket' – that the more they earn pay more, and also a tax that has to be green. I insist, always protecting the lower classes and middle classes, and ending the privileges of the rich. President, you know that these weeks will come out on the street various mobilizations. We will have mobilizations, stop, also make vague, 250,000 workers and public workers of the Generalitat, more than 5,700 metre of primary care, the educational community, the Bombers of Catalonia. President, I believe that your Government, the Torra-Aragonese Government, as I have already said, must listen; please listen. You're blocking the state assumptions, you haven't presented the assumptions to Catalonia yet; we're late. And now you're also blocking social progress in Barcelona. First they notified a 30_per_cent report to the Consortium d'Habitatge, which they had to rectify.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.82.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.83.0	I, second, are blocking that it is destined 30_percent of the new constructions of social housing in Barcelona... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.84.0	Congresswoman... [[Greetings.]] To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.85.0	Yes, honourable Member. To your group and to ours there is something quite curious – yes – that we agree with the great general principles. That is to say, with what you have just said about how these assumptions are to be addressed, I completely agree, and when I also say to him, "Look at what are the three great consensuses in Catalan citizenship, which are republicanism, which are anti-repression and are self-determination, we also agree, right? After we coast to lower it; indeed, we coast to lower it, and here is where we have to negotiate, here is where we have to talk. I..., it seems to me that both Councillor Bargalló, who today has had the opportunity to explain who his objectives are as well; I think that also the Vice President, who has already gone astray from where we approach the assumptions; also from the Department of Enterprise, from the Department of Labour or from the Department of Territory..., I think we are going in this line, and we want to go in this line. Therefore, I, the one who suggested, and taking into account the plan of government that we approved, taking into account the investment speeches and these broad lines in which we seem to be fully in agreement, is that we sit down with the proposal that the Vice-President, therefore, will present to you, and we begin to negotiate. And he will call you soon – he will call you soon – without any doubt. Respect the waves. So, actually, I'm worried– I'm worried–, because I..., if you think we're watching these workers' complaints from Catalonian workers with impassibility, then you're wrong about government. We said from the first moment that we put people in the center of our policies; that we understood that just social policies are the engine of republical change, and therefore we are absolutely centered here. And I say to him: yesterday, for example, with the employees, with the union representatives of the employees, so, listen'm, there were both the councillor Puignero as my head of Cabinet. Today, with the medical representatives who want to wander the whole issue of primary care, there will be a meeting of the vice president and members of the Catalan Institute of Health. We're working, we're negotiating, we're trying to keep this from happening, we're doing everything we can, with all our presuppositional availabilities, so why these waves aren't coming. Because, in fact, we are as compromised as you are that everyone in this country has the same opportunities and can get out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.86.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generality about threats and acts of intimidation against public authorities]] [[317-00033/12]] ...the formula Mr. Miquel Iceta on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.87.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me first to express my solidarity on behalf of my group with the victims of the rail accident yesterday in Vacarisses and our condolences to the relatives and friends of the fatal victim there was. And, President, today we do not ask you a specific question; we want to share a reflection and, in any case, to know what your view of respect is – we have already made you sell it on the occasion of the celebration of the first meeting of the 'Dialeg Space', and this is our concern for attacks, acts of violence and intimidation that we believe may threaten our coexistence. Discuss yourself – and I apologize to you for using your example – the leader of the Popular Party of Catalonia, Alejandro Fernández, president of a parliamentary subgroup of this chamber, saw how his vehicle was the object of a vandal attack. I would probably serve any other example, any other person, any act of intimidation, but I take the example because it's recent and because it might help us to locate what we're talking about. What does this incident tell us? Tell us that there is intolerance, that there are people who don't respect the ideas they don't share. And what are they telling us that they've done this? They're telling Mr. Fernández, but they're telling us all, "We know who I am, we know how you think, where you live, who your assets are, and since we're anonymous, we want to threaten you, and we want to tell you that we won't let you express yourself freely. That's what they're telling us. No one denies that we are living in an exceptional situation but what would actually do this exceptional situation is that we resign ourselves to the fact that the intolerants mark us in the step, that we resign ourselves to the fact that our coexistence is being altered by those who are unable to accept that there are people who do not think like them and them. And that's why we believe, and we've said since the first moment, that acting like this, incidents like these, would require on the part of all of us the most comprehensive, blunt, unitary and rapid response. And this incident happened disbanded and we still haven't been able to produce it. Let us show our concern about this issue and we want to share it with you, very honourable president, in this monitoring session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.88.0	Thank you. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.89.0	President. Congressman, thank you for those words and for sharing this state of anime, which I think is a state of anime that we generally share in this chamber. There's no doubt about it. As well, if I may, I also share the words that Mr.Alejandro Fernández said in a recent interview that there is no problem of violence in Catalonia. I think it is also important that we place things in its proper terms. Or as he said, he will also remember, Minister Great-Marlaska about, well, that we do not exaggerate, that the situation is what it is and above all that we do not trivialize, nor play with words when, for example, certainly actions are attributed..., therefore, comparisons with the Nit of the Nazi Widows. I mean, obviously, you're referring to these facts that members of the group and I, so, we've condemned, but let's condemn them all, huh? Condemn them all. I think that's very important. Condemn all fets that go by. As President Puigdemont and I know, we carry a few death threats to our world. The other day in Verges, the town appears with some paintings, with some swastikas with my name on them. We still see now how words that I don't understand well or what they sound like, or how it's possible that no one gets up to say, in the Andalusian electoral campaign, they come out with that joy. I think that's actually correct, that's compromise, huh? , of cohesion, this makes us populous – this makes us populous –, this great consensus that there must be in Catalan society that we should move forward peacefully and democratically or not. I'm sure we'll share it. I think it was also one of the important points of the meeting that we held at the table of the diáleg de divenres, where, okay, we didn't put ourselves over..., let's say, okay – and I'm sorry for the redundancy – in many other questions, but in this yes. In this and in the fact that a political problem we always have to solve politically. And I would add that democratically and peacefully. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.90.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the creation of a common front before the State in relation to infra-financing and the lack of investment in the railway network]] [[317-00037/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, Mrs Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.91.0	Good morning, President. Unfortunately yesterday we had a railway accident that could have avoided with a good maintenance of the infrastructure, as already claimed by the mayors of the area. And it's not the only incident on the Catalan railway network that hasn't invested enough. This has been tragic, but once again the citizens of this country have to suffer unjustified delays, badly served and missing numbers in order not to keep the network up to date. And it's no smaller aspect because it has a direct impact on its daily quality of life. We are in front of one of these historical deficiencies that we are repeating, of one of the recurrent mistreatments, that is the lack of reversal in infrastructure in Catalonia. And especially this, which is basically a service for people and which directly impacts on other key aspects for us: sustainability, the environment, mobility. We're in the 21st century and we've got a network of rollers that's been stuck for years. Catalan citizenship we deserve a railway network of the 21st century, because we want to be a modern, effective and forward-looking state. Infra-financing is historical, the hair plug too and the promises incomplete the pa of every day. We don't remember how many times we've been promised a shower of millions, it's the usual card they play when the citizenry expressed tiredness for a situation that is not resolved. But it always ends up in a few newspaper covers and little more. You're urgent. It is urgent that we pay all the investments promised, we do not want nor can we expect more. We want a system of infrastructure at the level of our country. In fact, this is another of the reasons for which it is obvious that we need to be a state, with all the skills to be able to have a rail and public transport network at the level of the main European countries. We want to be an independent republic too for questions like this. We want to be a modern, effective and forward-looking state. Meanwhile, lords of Madrid, I cease to chant with the assumptions and put the piles in to pay arrears. Is it urgent that they pay for all the investments promised, or is it that the Catalan citizens do not deserve the same route and infrastructure as the rest of the state? In this sense, Mr President, I would like to ask you how you would like to make a common front from Catalonia, also in this question, to force the State to start fulfilling the incomplete promises. We demand that we get close and want quick and definitive solutions. We want to manage the cent_per_cent of the network.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.92.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.93.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.94.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.95.0	Yes, President. Thank you, Congresswoman, and I thank you for the question, which you are asking today, because you know what's going on? That yesterday was a day of a certain gathering, yesterday was a day to be next to the victim's family, the people who had suffered that accident; the vice president, therefore, went to the hospital to see the wounded, I myself moved to the place where the events had occurred. It was also a day to aggravate, to all the public servants we have in this country their action. I, frankly, am beginning to know how we act in this country in these key emergencies, I assure you that seeing the deployment of Mossos, Bombers, the Emergencies Services, the local police of the assemblies involved, was a motif of pride; it was a motif of pride of country, that we are able to act as we do when we are all there. And I think that was that day. Yesterday was not the day because Minister Ábalos went out to demand that we vote for the assumptions because we would have more investments. When I listened to those statements on the evening, I thought: "But really, in which country do they live? – in which country you live, right? And, therefore, I think that today yes – today yes – that it is already time to begin to analyze what has happened – what has happened. And, therefore, I completely agree with you that the cause will ultimately be: "Listen to me, but what is happening with the State's investments in Catalonia? And I have some data, look: the Rodalies transfer – the mythical Rodalies transfer – has been incomplete because the State has not transferred 130_million euros a year to cover the tariff-servicing deficit, but it is still paying directly to Renfe. At the Pla de Rodalies in Barcelona 2008-2015, with €4,000_million of planned investment, only 13,5_per_cent– a 13,5_per_cent was executed. No new line, no duplication, or most of the new stations planned for the plan have been run. Only the Saint-Meridian station has been built. With this inverter rhythm, the plan would require nearly sixty years to deploy. The citizens of Catalonia deserve these investments, sixty years to deploy? The action plan, another given: the priority action plan to which the ministry committed for the period 2014-2016...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.96.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.97.0	... with 300_million euros of reversal, only 12_per_cent has been executed. And so they'd go on – and so they'd go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.98.0	The following question is asked by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the possibility of a fair trial for the independence policies undertaken in the current context of crisis of confidence in the judicial system]] [[317-00035/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.99.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. President Torra, add us to the shows of solidarity towards the victims – the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia – of support for the victim and the wounds of yesterday's incident of Rodalies. It is obvious and it is public and notoriety – they say even all the editorials of the press in Madrid – the difficult state crisis of the Spanish State and of confidence in the judicial system, a crisis of the judicial system that frames that in the Spanish State there is no separation of powers and that there is no judicial independence. As Councillor Turull told us yesterday in a tweet, « from the tied and well bound, to the sewn and well sewn. It is an evidence that, moreover, yesterday, added to the facts that happened, painful and regrettable, of the crisis of the Spanish judicial system and of the difficult confidence, that there was news yesterday, on the part of the Court of Human Rights of Strasbourg, by unanimity– by unanimity–, for which the Court of Strasbourg of Human Rights demanded the release of a Kurdish deputy who had undertaken without trial, since more than a year and a half that he is in prison. We are pleased that Europe has a space of freedom where you see the light – where you see the light – before a situation of unjust political prisoners, who live in Catalonia, and exiles. We regret and see that Spain acts with Turkey, and we say so with sadness. And now what we're worried about, before this unfair trial for which we're going to ask you your position, Mr. President, is that Spain, of behaving like Turkey, is not behaving, with the deal it makes the prisoners during the trial, like Guantanamo. Because they will have to move to prison near Madrid, that they do not know at what hour they will have to rise in the morning, because they will not have alarm clocks or clocks; that they will have to go in vans in the violent way in which they were transported, as they were able to explain to us; that they will go without shaking, that they give them a cold store, that they will not be able to dinar, that they will also dinate cold, that they will arrive late in prison and in totally pensive and unjust conditions. Do you think, President, that under these conditions there can be a fair trial?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.100.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.101.0	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. You know that we share all this analysis of a judiciary that when we think it can no longer be discredited, no, we're wrong, because there's another step forward towards a drift that we don't know where it can end – or maybe we do know where it can end, that will be right in the judgment of our political prisoners. Look, you remembered the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights on the case of Arnaldo Otegi, in which the Spanish State is condemned for the lack of impartiality of the courts. I think it's a very important feeling that we need to have. I recall the extent of the judgments in which they openly declared their animateness against the Puigdemont government and compared independence with Nazism – also with that joy with which independence is always compared with Nazism in this country – and demanded that they not negotiate or dialogue with the strikers. The abhorrence continued with the famous those two weeks of "discussed," let's say, between comets," of the mortgage tax, also an absolutely sprawling and dubious thing that has happened in no country in the world. And when you thought, "There will be no other thing worse. Yes! The name of Judge Marchena's frustration arrived, and also, at that time, Mr. Ignacio Cosidó's WhatsApp, which sincerely – sincerely – benevolguts of the People's Party, I think you could send him some thought, eh? about this WhatsApp. You know what the Lord has to do with his life... And you think, "Well, what else is going to happen? So it has passed again, effectively: we know that there has been..., again, the European Court of Human Rights has also condemned the Spanish State for violating the right to freedom of expression of an activist who accused two police officers of torture. Therefore, indeed: we find ourselves in front of a Spanish judicial system with absolute contempt. I think that the Spanish judiciary, the dome of the Spanish judiciary, is devastated, and therefore it is absolutely impossible to think that our political prisoners can have a just trial – it is absolutely impossible. And we have to report it, and we have to report it every day, and we will report it internationally from then on every day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.102.0	President, time is running out. [[Question to the President of the Generality on measures to combat corruption]] [[317-00032/12]] The following and later asks the formula Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.103.0	Thank you, Mr. President. We are, of course, in addition to the condolences for the victim and the injured in yesterday's accident. Mr. Torra, can you explain to the Catalans a measure that your government has put in place to fight corruption in these months?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.104.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.105.0	Madame Arrimadas, President. Welcome – welcome to Catalonia – thanks for making a breakthrough in the Andalusian electoral campaign. [[Widow's remorse.]] I, with great pleasure, will now explain to you the measures that this government is taking from many points of view, and about corruption, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.106.0	You've got the word again to call the congresswoman back. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.107.0	You go to Euskadi to embrace yourself with Otegi and I go to the land of my parents, my brothers and my nephews to defend their labor rights. [[Greetings.]] Look, Mr. Torra, you can't say anything because your government hasn't done anything. Because you only care about one thing. If I ever ask you about the process you're an hour and a half talking, but corruption... Man, that's what you know absolutely nothing about. And so we have in Catalonia, as the second problem of citizens, corruption. Look, every day we have new records, imputations and arrests. Yesterday – yesterday –: records in the public infrastructure company and the Catalan Competition Authority for the case of 3_per_cent. By the way, that's not why you're asking for an appearance, is it, Mr. Torra? To talk about 3_per_cent not, just talk about Otegi, like the other day. Why? Because in 3_per_cent is charged the party that shared with you electoral list. I do not know if you are listening to me or have to point out to him also what he has to answer, but I am talking about you. You have been expelled from ALDE for corruption, in Europe you have thrown them out for corruption. And we don't say it, his own expartee says it. And this corruption has not only affected one party, it is true, it has affected several: there are many cases of corruption in Catalonia, and Catalans expect the president to be blunt. But what have you done? You have only followed the steps of Mas and Puigdemont. In the general policy debate, in the presentation, you did not name this topic once; you do not characterise yourself as a charge in cases of corruption to recover the public money stolen from the Generalitat of Catalonia by corrupt politicians, because of those millions you do not want to talk to. We already know that you have all the problems unattended: the strike of public servants, which you don't even know what to say, social indicators that are the worst in all of Spain, attacks on public servants that you, all you know to say, is that separatist commands have to tighten up... But, look, if you cared about fighting corruption, you'd take advantage of those two_minutes you have to explain to us what you're going to do to fight corruption. But he won't, you know why? Because what interests you is to shut up and shut up, because the day you talk about everything that has been stolen in Catalonia, the day you talk about everything that corrupt politicians have stolen, your "Spain steals from us" speech will fall, it will crumble, like a sugarcane. Why? Because the Catalans have been robbed of a lot of corrupt people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.108.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.109.0	...of the rest of Spain yes, and of Catalonia, too. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.110.0	Responsive again the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.111.0	Well, I'm glad – I'm very glad – that I'm back to being the leader of the opposition, because for a few moments I thought you were the candidate for the presidency of Andalusia, and then I'm glad that we've come back to the real problems of Catalans, because you never know where they are, right? Listen... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, it corrupted her. Miri, three measures. They want measurements? Three measures. Yeah, does that sound like it? Three measures. First, if it doesn't seem enough to you, we – we – have taken out the most corrupt government in Europe, the government of Mariano Rajoy. [[Greetings.]] Does that sound like it? Second– second–... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.112.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.113.0	Actually, you know there was a log yesterday, huh? , to the Catalan Competition Authority, therefore, precisely this register is also produced because they were investigating irregularities. Because this government, and I said it in the investment speech, said that with zero tolerance corruption – zero tolerance. And we already saw the consequences of those events. Therefore, this is one of the second measures that we are about to take. Third measure, and in the area of the territorial department, to make all the traceability of all the contracts so that they can perfectly, the citizens, know, at any time, all the follow-up that has been made on the subject of the contract. I mean, Mrs. Arrimadas, you're an expert at looking for themes and problems where they're not and when you're about to go to Andalusia, so you're going to follow up on your campaign on Catalonia there, huh? From this point of view, I'm glad you're back... I don't know what you're teaching me, huh? , of the Catalan Agency... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, if that sounds good to me. I told him that since the first minute this government has placed corruption, the fight against corruption, as one of its priorities. I said it in the investment speech – I said it. And precisely, today, I was very pleased that you asked me this question because these measures are beginning to notice. If you want us to talk about other things, I can tell you, so... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For example, so we're still moving forward... well, I'm running out of time. [[Crits of "Ooooh!]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.114.0	President, time is running out. So far the questions to the President of the Generality. Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. As the groups know, that they have not adhered to the consideration of the Enlarged Bureau, points 2 and 3 remain closed – I insist that the parliamentary groups already know this – on the agenda of this plenary session. [[Designation of the MPs acting for the 2018 budgetary period]] [[231-00001/12]] Therefore, we go directly to the fourth point of the order of the day, which is the appointment of the MPs interveners for the presupposition period of 2018. The Enlarged Bureau, as provided for in Article 37.5 of the Rules of Procedure, has granted the Ple the appointment of Deputy Marc Sanglas, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, as an intervener for the budgetary period of 2018, as a result of the resignation from the condition of deputy to the Catalonian Parliament of Mr David Rodríguez. Can you consider this proposal approved, for your consent? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Therefore, it is appointed as the deputy intervener of the deputy Marc Sanglas. [[Catalonia Wine Law Project (totality debate)]] [[200-00002/12]] Let's move on to the next point of the order of the day, the fifth, which is the debate to the totality on the Catalonia Wine Law Project. In accordance with Article 116.2 of the Regulation, the initiative is presented by the Agriculture Adviser, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordà. When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.115.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the sector and members of the department, who today accompanied us, very good morning to all of us. I compare to present, on behalf of the Government, the Catalonia Wine Law Project. The aim of this bill is nothing more than to deepen the quality guarantees that characterize Catalan wines; ultimately, the wines of our country. In wine, veritas. Yeah, in the vie they say there's the truth. That was already Pliny the Vell, in an expression that sees us from the background of time. True, huh? , just a concept of which today, unfortunately, we do not go too far. And it is that already in the year 4100 before Christ the first cell of which we know, in this case, in ancient Armenia appears. We, the Catalans and the Catalans, in this sense, also come from the moon, from the very moon. And it is that our country, historically, has already been a country with a tradition of conreu of wine and the elaboration of the vine; it has been introduced for the Greeks to Emporda, and where later, from the hand of the novels, it is beginning to develop the trade of the wines to the areas of Tarraco and Barcino. At the end of the 19th century, and because of the plague of the fil·loxera, it destroys all the winery to Catalonia, which obliges a replantation with few Americans. At the beginning of the 20th, the first wine cooperatives, we see here that the union makes the strength, eh? , and we are moving forward with the recovery of the sector from the sixties, with the revolution of the magnificients of the Priorat, a land from which the quality leap spread throughout the country like a taco of olive oil– well, today may be more like a taco of vines, huh? – the appearance of technology and oenology, etc. But today it is also just and it is necessary to highlight the role of those women, many women, who took care of the wine when everything – when everything – went against. That they took care of those old wines that now so many good wines give to us. And it is – and let me say it – that, without women, there is obviously no rural world and obviously there is no generational replenishment. All of them, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] Catalonia is, therefore, a great wine country, a treasurer of the Mediterranean arc, with a geographical and meteorological diversity, which, from its multiple climates and only, directly influence the diversification of the wines we find on the territory, and which, consequently, make us a unique destination in the world wine landscape. We could fix ourselves in a lot of other directions. In fact, we could stare at Napa Valley or the New Zealand plantations, or we could even surprise 'cause Blue Mountain is imbued with mint aromas of Australian wines. But let me tell you that we have nothing to envy them, because the wines of Catalonia have the freshness of the mountains and the breeze of the sea. In fact, they have the richness of the interior and the minerality of the great lands. But above all – above all, above all – they have, the wines of our country, a proper personal seal. The wines of Catalonia are not just wines, they are unique all over the planet. When you hit a català you know that you had to fight a lot for each ampoule. You can see that it came from that unique part of the world. And that, deputies and deputies, lords and lords, is an authentic wonder, that is, let me say it, an unusual treasurer. Recently we know a data facilitated for the Incavi, and which is from the Nielsen report, it is found that for the first time the combination of Catalan wines are the most consumed in Catalonia, over and above the vine coming from the first DO of the Spanish State. Can I imagine? At the same time as today we have more proof that the Catalan wine sector is one of the most dynamic, agri-food operating engine, where more than 45_percent of Catalan wines and more than 65_percent of the cava are exported. Work and more work, ingenious work. From here, I want to deeply appreciate all the work done by the DOs, and also their regulatory councils, because if we are here, if we are at this point, it is thanks to the sector; a sector that believes in it, but not just a sector that believes in it, but also a sector that is reinvented, and a sector that is decidedly committed to it. A sector that doesn't have to. A sector that esteems every pam of this land and knows how to read and interpret it by treure 'n to extreme 'in the better of it itself. But we still have a lot to do. That is why it is very important that we present this law today, and above all that we present it in advance. We have great challenges ahead and we are on the side of the sector to accompany it – to accompany it – and not only to accompany it, but also to strengthen it in this way towards competitiveness, but also to excellence. We have, therefore, all, the responsibility to preserve the identity of the territory and know-how to transmit it to the generations that will come. Since we only have references, we will ensure continuity. Why are we presenting this bill today? So look, because it's about a bill that's already started in the previous legislature, obviously from the hand of Councilwoman Meritxell Serret, today, by the way, patenting into exile and to whom I want to send a very strong hug. Meritxell, and we want to go home, we want you all to go home! [[Greetings.]] Unfortunately, he said, a process that was crushed by the application of the already known article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, after having been debated with the sector in various and multiple meetings, with representative and business organizations, also at the Sectoral Table of Wine and Life, and after having had the view of the Council of Work, Economic and Social. So, it's voluntary, you know, of this government that I've been approved for this mandate. The wine sector and the wine sector have a major import to Catalonia, both in the production of the vine and in its production, and it is one of the engines of the Catalan economy. As I said, the winery in Catalonia is very – very – influenced by geographical diversity and the Mediterranean climate. This geographical diversity has made possible the development of the twelve designations of origin, which currently occupy about 52,000 hectares. The bet for quality wines has been, for decades, a constant in the vi català, which is paid to the decade, already, of the thirty years of the past century. The sector of the vi a Catalunya represents almost 3_percent of the value of the final agricultural production, and the wine industry participates in the total of the agri-food industry in 5.6_percent of the total of Catalonia. That said, the main object of this law, which will replace current law 15/2002, is the inn on the day of Catalan wine law, according to European legislation. We are, and I want to point out, fully aware that we find ourselves in front of a hyper-regulated, hyper-regulated sector at European level, huh? , and, finally, internationally. But it is also the responsibility of the government to face it, and not only to face it, but also to adapt the Catalan standard mark to the change that comes to us, which previous governments did not manage to do. This new European regulation offers us an opportunity; a new opportunity to renew the Catalan legislation in the wine sector, increasing the legal security of wine producers and wine makers in our country. Catalonia needs a law more adapted to the current reality of the sector; a law that strengthens, and repeats, not only that strengthens, but also that accompanies better Catalan viticulture, facing the reptes – which are many, the reptes – of the future. The great development of the sector, and the fact that more than 90_percent of Catalan wines take over the twelve DOs that exist in Catalonia, make it necessary to perfect the guarantee systems and also the control systems on the part of the different stages that hold this responsibility. That is why the future law must allow us to do so. The law also has the following main objectives, in a quick way: the increase in competitiveness and profitability of the wine sector, modernisation, development and innovation of wine farms, the establishment of a sustainable wine potential in Catalonia and its maximum production, in the quality mark, and collaboration in the training and professional qualification of winegrowers. Who are the key, key, points of this law? As I said, the new law seeks, primarily, to adapt to the European law and to give coverage of regulated areas for community or state standards to a law-class rule. The adaptation, too, of the new law to the community regulations will therefore allow us to give more legal certainty to wine producers and makers in Catalonia. Some important aspects that are updated: the regulation of the Catalan wine potential – this is one-; the regulation of the vinya authorizations, especially taking into account the situations laid down by European legislation from the year 2016; the regulation of the wine register and the regulation, also, of the varieties of vinification wine that can be planted, that can be replanted or impelled in Catalonia. In short, we can say with total certainty that it is a text that is more adapted to the current reality of this sector, the sector that today occupies us, for this European adaptation and because during the fifteen years of the Catalan law they have come to manifest themselves – and this is an evidence –, therefore, different aspects that it is better to regulate, and that this government, obviously, cannot escape from the way it is. In a big way, the law is structured into different titles and different articles. The first title is dedicated, only and exclusively, to viticulture– viticulture: wine and roots–, where the great lines of action are established in this matter, such as the authorizations of plantations, eh? It also regulates non-authorized plantations and, at the same time, the obligation of their pull when this is considered. There is also a regulation of varieties with the establishment of a variety catalogue, and it gives legal status to the Catalonia Wine Registry as the main tool, together with the wine label, of control in this matter. In short, great tools that allow us to guarantee traceability. The title second is dedicated to wine-growing, in this case, to the elaboration of the vine, and the objectives of the policies are established in this area, with the aim of improving the competitiveness of Catalan wines as a motor of exports and, obviously, promoting diversity and also, at the same time, their quality. It makes a special mention of the promotion of complementary activities of wine-growing, as can be – and important, obviously also to highlight – wine tourism and wine routes, as well as the complement of tourism. The third title regulates the system of protection of the origin of quality wine, adapting the regulation to European legislation. What's he doing at the estate wine, huh? , which are the vertex of the quality pyramid of the vi català with the name of origin, so, in this case, the terminology "qualified" is incorporated, to the effect of visualizing its relevancy. The fourth title is dedicated to products without a designation of origin or protected geographic identification. The fifth title determines the Incave as the competent authority to verify the completion of the departure of conditions of protected geographical indications and designations of origin, and the general directions of agriculture and feed and feed as the competent authorities in the inspection and control of viticulture and wine-growing respectively. The title sisè is dedicated to the sanctioning regime. It regulates and updates the number of infringements and sanctions, incorporating them into the viticulture material that were not provided for in the current legislation in its entirety. And, to end – already to end – the law reverses the promotion of the culture of life and the promotion of technological transfer. The willingness to have a law-friendly chapter is a consequence of the importance which for the wine sector has the promotion of the culture of the vine. This activity of promotion is expressed both as an obligation as well as a willingness of understanding between the actors and, at the same time, the sectors, and which must succeed in promoting the consumption of life, always in moderation, with a probable transfer of knowledge that exceeds the same product. These aspects that precede the winery and it is the very essence of economic and cultural activity, and they are ultimately, if I may, the backbone and raison d'être of the origin denominations on which it is based – all – the winery structure of Catalonia. And, finally, all this allows us to conclude that they guarantee the origin, but not only the origin, but also guarantee the quality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.116.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.117.0	... – I finish, I finish, President –, guaranteeing traceability, therefore, we also strengthen at international level. And if we have a strong sector, it is obvious that we can better face the challenges of sustainable development and global change, not just climate change, but also economic change. And nothing, I'm done, because I have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.118.0	Yes, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.119.0	Yes, yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.120.0	...actually.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.121.0	... but let's say that viticulture is culture, that it is territory, that obviously it is also landscape and is, in short, heritage of all. Many thanks to all of you for your attention, counselors and counselors, and vice president – that before I forgot to greet you, I must see you very much... –, many thanks to all...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.122.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.123.0	Visca Catalunya! A great country of wine. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.124.0	Then, as long as no totality papers have been submitted, we will proceed to open a turn of interventions to fix the positioning of the groups, for a maximum of two minutes per each and five in the case of the subgroups. In the first place, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Francisco Javier Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.125.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Government, Councillor..., before we talk about the Wine Law, which we are going to discuss today, I wanted to talk about the wine sector being within the agri-food sector and we are finally talking about the rural world. And the rural world has a very serious problem; we have spoken here many times, but we have to repeat it and repeat it as many times as it takes and whenever we can, so that it goes down in the rest of society, and it is the great problem of ageing and depopulation. There's no generational relief. Young people do not find it attractive to stay in a place where services are lacking, where they cannot work online because broadband has not arrived, because they can close the children's school because there are not enough students, because they may not find enough opportunities for the future. But this is not a problem of the people or of the mountain; it is a problem that affects us all of society. And in this context there is the wine sector. It is clear that wine and wine are an important part of the agri-food economy, but it goes a little further: it is an asset that stands out within the Catalan economy, as a whole, and at the level of the rural world it contributes more than it seems. And this I'm going to explain now is evidence, but it's not evidence to forget. The wine sector consists of three legs: the winegrower, with the vineyard; the winegrower, the wine cellar, and the part of the wine tourism, which is related. The pagodas has a house, a tractor, some facilities, some warehouses; uses plant protections, fertilizers; needs a mechanic, services; hires choppers, harvesters... The wine grower also has some facilities in the form of winery, machinery; needs an oenologist, operators, commercials; has to design labels, has to print the, use cork stoppers, which here enters with the cork world, which is a little also abandoned... And then there is the leg of wine tourism, which needs accommodation, restaurants, and also wants to do something else: it wants to do routes, rent bicycles, etc.. But with this, what do I mean? What I want to do is give the importance that a sector deserves to be well regulated and functioning, because it helps to diversify the economy in a rural environment so that there are more opportunities to work and earn a decent living, and it helps in the right direction to solve the issue of depopulation. And I say that without looking at statistics, because when I started working I had a partner under thirty years old who decided to leave his job fixed in Reus for betting to return to his people and dedicate himself to the world of the vineyard; he was the only farmer with a hundred_per_cent dedication. And luckily I saw him recently and he's making a good living, and what I hope is that from here we can help his children keep themselves in the territory. And we will, of course, support any regulation that facilitates and improves the sector and provide everything we can to make it for good. And before talking about the law I want to end by saying that both the wines of the Priorat, as well as those of the Montsant, as those of any of the Catalan denominations of origin, and the cava, are first quality wines, with a recognition throughout Spain and at international level. That is why we have to be very cautious when calls for consumption are made from some sectors; and I am not referring to calls for the consumption of our wines to give them value as quality wines and cavas: I am referring to black lists or white lists, I am referring to campaigns in favour of brands that align with the process or with any other ideology. It is an intolerable intrusion that harms the whole sector. That's why I want to show my position totally contrary to any kind of boycott, blacklists or whitelists. [[Greetings.]] This law has positive objectives. I have summarized four, which are, first of all: there is no single norm that regulates wine matter, there is a considerable dispersion – law, decrees, orders... –, and one of the objectives would be the codification in a single norm of all aspects related to the management of wine activity. Another objective is, as has already been mentioned, the adaptation of the 2002 law to European law, the 2013 regulation. Then there is another objective which is to give legal coverage with a legal status to matters not regulated by the 2002 law, such as the whole wine sector, which, despite the fact that the 2002 law was called 'wine management', had totally missed the wine regulation. In this topic would be the authorizations of planting, replanting, regulating the wine register or regulating the varieties. Finally, another positive objective would be to improve the aspects where it has already been seen that the 2002 law was a little short, such as guaranteeing the legal regime of PDOs and PGIs or the sanctioning regime in relation to non-compliances. But, of course, I too will say not so positive aspects of the law. Since 2013, which is the date of the regulation of the European Union, it has been five years, and work is being done on this more or less since 2014. And nothing would happen, because at this time it has given enough time to draw a complete law, a law with a broad consensus, but we did not arrive with a broad consensus; in view of the allegations of 2017, it does not seem this. There is also a courtesy detail: in the middle of the campaign, the allegations..., were given about fifteen days to be presented in the middle of the summer, just before the harvest, when the whole sector is at its peak, at maximum dedication. That's just courtesy, I think. And the CSTC's own opinion says, textual: "This rule should have been more ambitious in its content. CTESC believes that it should have sought a wider consensus from all the operators involved. It also believes that the principles of administrative simplification and reduction of delays should have been taken into account. So there's something left to polish. Nor has there been any response to a recommendation to include a maximum time limit for the drafting and adoption of the decree on the development of the law, and I therefore assume that there should not be much haste to implement this law either. But, in general, the recommendations of the CSTC have been taken into account, and those that are not, we will now be working on them in paper. But one of them that has been overlooked draws my attention, a recommendation, and I read it literally: « In the case of the designations of origin of supraautonomous character, the automatic automatic interspersing of adient data with the registers of other autonomous communities will be established. To this end, it will ensure compatibility of the systems and criteria adopted. Can anyone explain to me why this recommendation has been rejected? Is there any kind of allergy that databases in other autonomous communities are compatible with our database? Does it have anything to do with the Republican model of work? Because I just don't get it. So, if there's any technical reason why the records aren't compatible between autonomous communities, I'd like to know. I have mentioned before three legs: the winegrower, the winegrower and the wine tourism, and also here it has been named the wine tourism, but really in the law there is not an articulated one that develops and creates articles that speak of wine tourism. It's a shame, but they've really fallen from the law. And now the part comes a little controversial. In this law, proposed by the Incavi, it is determined that the competent authority to verify and certify compliance with the specifications of the PDOs is the Incavi. The regulatory councils are being stripped, which is the one that currently has the function of verification and certification..., but not in favour of the department, but in favour of the Incavi. On this I would also like to hear a convincing technical explanation, and I suppose the regulatory councils too, especially them. In the rest of the food products this does not happen. In the case of oil, these functions are carried out by the regulatory councils themselves, and I do not see any justification for making a difference in oil than in wine. But if there's a reason, I repeat, I'd like to know the one. I really hope that this law will be beneficial to the whole vineyard, wine and wine sector, but I want to end up with three questions. With this law the Incavi is competent authority in some functions, more than before. Is the whole sector in agreement with this greater role of the Incavi? Second question. What does the department have to do with this? To what extent will the Incavi grow, to the detriment of the department's own competencies? And with regard to regulatory councils, do you agree to lose these verification and certification powers? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.126.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Member of Parliament Óscar Ordeig has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.127.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, members of the Department of Agriculture who accompany us, agricultural and wine organizations in the country, deputies, deputies, members of the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, we obviously support the processing of the Wine Law Project that the Government is promoting – seventy-three articles and different additional provisions and transits – for this reason, no one has presented anything to the whole, and therefore we are beginning parliamentary processing in which we can all make our contributions. An incis that connects with what the company that preceded me has commented: very important, make a good law; also equally important, the support to the agri-food sector, the support to rural development, the support to an economic system that works and that gives recollection to the economic initiatives of the territory. Still... we are in favour of parliamentary processing, but we will make some better proposals that we think will be included during parliamentary processing and go into detail. First, to thank the great task and the professionalism of all people, public and private entities and organizations that have made it possible for Catalonia to be a national referent and an international referent in production, elaboration and commercialization of life. Also a thank you to the different advisors, to Councillor Jordan, to Councillor Serret, but also to the one who had come before, because it has been a continuous support, with a structure, with an organization that has borne good fruit in the past years, from the support to the sector. Therefore, also a recognition of the work well done, but at the same time we would not want to make an excess of conformism, an excess of cophoism, because there is not enough, we have pending assignments that with this law and with others that also affect the sector should be pulled forward. Work has been done, you have to see the one that worked and empower her with this law. Secondly, we would like to highlight the different allegations, the names of the allegations that have come from the sector, indicating that it is an important law for the sector, an important law for the territory, and, above all, that there is a great competition at international level in the wine and wine sector and, therefore, that the sector is concerned: from the IRTA to the JARC trade unions, the Union of Pages, the Sant Isidre Institute, the Federation of Cooperatives, the Cava Institute, the Wine Association, the Enólegs College or the final report of the CTESC, which also makes some interesting recommendations. For our band, we believe that some of the issues that contributed quality to the writing should have been accepted; we will have time to discuss them. From our parliamentary group, as we have said, we have seen the great import, tradition and economic impact of the total wine sector of Catalonia, as we have already said, with 500_million euros in exports, growing by a 7_per_cent just the past year, the third agricultural sub-sector of Catalonia, 23_per_cent of sales from all over the State is a fan of Catalonia, an exponential growth of productions over all of the sixties and, not to repeat some things, with a very and very important impact, direct impact but also indirect impact, in many rural development sub-sectors to the producer coffers, tourism, food sector, among others, and that this law may also be in power for this reason. Long-time expert, knowledge and territorial deployment, going from far away. I will not repeat all the historical referents that the counselor made, I had stayed in the Greeks and the novels; you were four_ thousand years before Crist. Therefore, we give it for good, above all the influence of cooperatives; above all the influence and the good model of the designations of origin, from many and many years ago, a model which Europe has taken as a reference, which we obviously deploy here, which has been based on quality, quality and with a connection with the territory, therefore with our producers. I believe that since the sixties that there has been an exponential increase in productions, quality in productions of vines, this model is what has worked: cooperatives, designations of origin, quality. And, therefore, Incavi is also a model that we believe we need to empower, the Incavi is the Administration, but surely they have done it in a more agile way, it has worked, that we see those elements that might be more agile, but, in any case, we believe that we need to continue to reinforce the role of the INCAVI, that we need to continue to strengthen the role of the denominations, but each one has to make his work, a supervisor, the others do the work more on the ground. Backs and opportunities for the future. Where do we think the law can improve in its parliamentary process? We believe that it is a policy of law and industry, in general, to the market, a policy of product, of potential consumers. As we have said, there is a lot of competence at national level, and a lot of competence at international level and, therefore, it is necessary to guide us to our consumers, to our emerging markets and to the nine consumption stages, we models of distribution, of marketing, we points of sale, we specialized consumers that before there are, we online channels that before there are, direct sales of proximity, that we are enhancing in the last years, we packaging, labelling, packaging, that in other words, or ecological production, among others, that is detailed to the law, but in a very concise way. Internal consumption. There has been recourse in domestic consumption, since many of the wines consumed – we have increased, but not enough – are still from outside Catalonia. Therefore, recognition and reinforcement of the Incave's task, totally agreeable, bet for quality, with protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications, more protagonistism and resources, not of supervision – that someone must supervise them – but, obviously, we must deepen in this task, in this leadership that has held the designations of origin, that have done it well. We also found a major paper missing from the IRTA. It is called in some places, IRTA, universities, but above all the IRTA as an official body that is excellent in the technological search of food, as also to enhance internationalization, exports, the paper of Prodeca. We also find it missing that it is doing a deepening in this sense. There are five countries that concentrate 50_percent of the world's consumption of vi. Prodeca can therefore help us improve these exports. Obviously, a sustainable model of climate change, improving the professionalization of the management of family cells, enhancing enoturism, collaboration with the Barcelona brand, well recognized, establishing debate and reflection spaces – that we have some, but we could have more –, above all, coordination of European, state and autonomous rules – we do not have competition, we must complement ourselves – with coherent regulation, administrative simplification. The climate change will lead us to a displacement of certain wines. It is necessary to enhance and provide more resources and specific actions or programmes for the cultivation of wine in mountain areas. It is also spoken in a very concise way to the law, but we believe that here too it could deepen much more. We need to develop, lay down terms to develop the law's development decree and we can also make a rest of the six autonomous communities that also have wine law to see which elements can be, have worked well and can be imitated, above all we could go to Castella and Lleó and Rioja, which have some similar concerns. Therefore, other elements that are contemplated by the law and that we agree with, obviously: to define the sanctioning regime, the plantations, the legal regime of the denominations, totally agree. In short, in order not to expand much further, obviously, we have always been with the agri-food sector. It is very important not only for the territory, but for the Catalan economy and for the self-supply of quality and quantity food. We are among the agri-food sector. The wine sector is strategic and very important and, obviously, the support for the processing of a modern law, on the part of our group, our support for an advanced law, oriented, as I said, to the market and to our consumers and that improves the competitiveness and quality of Catalan wines. Very important, because they are consumed in Catalonia, because they are consumed by the State and that they are a referent, even more, at the international level. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.128.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] All the same, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it's the turn of Mrs. Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.129.0	Thank you, President. I will be brief so as not to repeat myself in what the comrades have said, and so that it does not happen to me like the other time. Well, first of all, we stress positively that this law can compact and clarify all the legislation in the wine sector, and can overcome the contradictions that currently existed with regard to European legislation. Secondly, we also stress that this bill can improve the transparency levels of the wine sector, especially with regard to designations of origin and protected geographical indications. On the other hand, it is also interesting that this law is based on the principle of trust and good practice of the sector, allowing more self-control by certification and control bodies. However, we hope that the new permits and controls that deal with this law will not contribute to the red tape of the sector. We also hope that the Institut Catalán de la Viña will have sufficient funding, assessing its role as authority and department competent in agriculture and agri-food quality and, therefore, competent in wine and wine inspection and control. Finally – I said it was going to be brief – we also hope that this new regulation will be used to promote occupation, strengthen the sector, the territories, and not to defend the interests of already consolidated operators. Madam Councillor, I mentioned this to you when we brought the Agricultural Spaces Act to its full, it is important that you work to ensure that this law has a regulation and to provide a necessary budget line, because if not this bill, then it will be pure wet paper. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.130.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it's the return of the MP Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.131.0	Well, for what it does to the law that they present us today from the government, I will be extraordinarily brief, because the exceptional situation that is going on in Barcelona today does not mean that we don't want to devote much time to this issue. Basically, to say a word, to other groups that have already said: that in a sector affected by the effects of climate change, that they make there be a more darkened view, with greater alcohol and that they force the cells, today, to predict that they will come to the Pyrenees, for example, well, we believe that, in order to guarantee at the level of landscape, at the cultural level and also at the level of identity, what would be warm to work with more depth is also how we face the consequences of climate change. That said, the Parliamentary Group of the CUP today does not want to devote a minute more to being in this House, while the city of Barcelona has a brutal police deployment, Brimo and ARRO to ensure private ownership, and it is not thought that there is a threat to public security, which there are families that do not arrive at the end of the month, and this government has done a brutal police deployment to Ciutat Vella and the Poble-sec. Therefore, we do not go to the side of the people who are today defending the right to a stopover and a dignified life, seeing that today they have before them three vans of the security bodies of Catalonia, of Mosso d'Esquadra, and seeing, for example, that they find themselves with heavy health problems, such as a vision that they have just done a transplant and that, despite this, they want to dephonate it. The four MPs of the UPC are leaving, because we understand that the priority is not to abide by what marks the judicial system, that the only one who wants to defend private property and the big corporations that work against life. We're leaving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.132.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.133.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, the truth is, I always thought it was perfectly compatible to defend your principles without undermining any sector and their concerns, but, well, we've seen that there are political formations that think that life is a game of zero sum. Well, as I only have five minutes, I will be relieved of the reflection of the historical, almost philosophical type, on the relevancy that we have in our culture, in our tradition and in our economic productivity the vi, which has made the councillor, and which practically in its totality shared. So, I'm going to work. We are ahead of an update of Law 15/2002, and an adaptation of the European regulations that were subsequently adopted: 2007, 2008, 2013. Well, a first look at the writing that is presented has some shortcomings that concern us. Indeed, during the process, you will have to take advantage of it to talk more with the sector, to improve the bill that is presented today. Why, you're right to counsel when you say that we're ahead of a hyper-regulated sector, actually, but how do you make up for it? So, with more regulation, and with a more interventionist problem, because moving from self-regulation to an absolute supervision of the Institut Català del Vi has nuances that when we hear they are relevant and worrying. For example, it would be better to define the role of the Encave and the Board of Regulators, which is now ambiguous in articles 42.1 and 45.3, in relation to the delegation of competitions. I explain: what we are complaining about is that the Delegation of Functions on behalf of the Incavi should require a favourable report from the Board of Regulators of each affected designation of origin. Why? Because we're ahead of a risk, and it's that a single regulator council, which would be the Denomination of Origen Catalunya, could end up completely controlling the rest. And that's something that we won't accept, because picking up the sector, as you said, Counselor, it doesn't just have to be worded, it has to be demonstrated with concrete facts. On the other hand, we believe that the current wording translates – and I don't want to be unfair – into a certain mistrust of producers when it comes to inspections, also with excessive hyperregulation and interventionism. A mistrust that ends up almost becoming a loss, a loss, when it comes to the definition of the wine parcel. We all know that for the winegrowers it is very important to include in what is called the "antars", necessary to make the work mechanizable. It's a fair complaint that should be considered, and that I don't suppose for public arches any kind of problem. In short, we are working on this project, which we think in its first draft it presents an excess of interventionism, and we are putting forward measures of improvement from the humility of the contribution in the name of Members, but it is at the disposal of the Government and above all of the sector to improve the drafting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.134.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it's the turn, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Congresswoman Lluïsa Llop.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.135.0	Thank you, President. Advisers, advisers, representatives of the agricultural sector, in particular director of the Incavi, thank you for accompanying us today. Very good morning to everyone. In the first place, and before starting with the subject, I would like to add myself to the sympathy shows for the fatal victim of the accident yesterday in Vacarisses, in the same way that I want to keep a special and tangible record for Ernest Lluch, today that he has divided years of his murder into the hands of terrorism. Obviously... [[Greetings.]] Obviously, the rape we understand is never the answer. One time said this, as Councillor Jordà well remembered, on May 9, 2017, therefore, the last legislature approved by agreement of government the preliminary memory of the advance draft of the law of Catalonia that gave the way out to its processing, processing that, unfortunately, like so many other things, was interrupted by the application of Article 155 on the part of the Spanish State, which illegally ceased our Government and our Parliament and left a lot of drafts of law and many other things, at the moment, on the way. That bill, launched in her day for Councilwoman Meritxell Serret, today, as she recalled, unfairly to exile, and for whom I want to keep a very special record and recognize them the great pocket that the head of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia and Fisheries made: today, like all the days, she will advise Serret, and we want to free you and the rest of the people who are engaged and exiled. [[Greetings.]] To contextualize this wine law let me make a very personal note. What do you have to say about the wine sector: a person who does not walk five minutes from home without a strain; a person who every morning, when he takes the car and leaves his village, crosses a sea of vineyards every morning. So it is obvious that for us, winemaking, winemaking, vines, wineries, cellars are an intrinsic part of our territory, a culture that pays us to ibers, to Greeks to Romans, and that gives us a good part of our country. Beyond these more personal perceptions, it is obvious that the wine sector, that it came, that it saw, its production and processing are at home. The vine and quarry represent the third most important sector of the agri-food industry in Catalonia, with operating inputs that exceed 1,100_million euros, and annual net sales of more than 1,000_million euros. Catalonia exports more than 490 million ampoules of vine and cava to more than one hundred and forty countries all over the world. He is one of the most important ambassadors of our land, our home and our productions. 2017, because they're making an idea of the volume we're talking about, we exported here – and when I'm talking now about seeing scumbags and peaceful living – worth more than €610_million, assuming a positive trade balance of more than €500_million. As I said before, exporting to a good part of the world, to countries captivating the ranquing like Germany, such as the United States, Belgium, the United Kingdom or Japan. In the 2016-2017 campaign we produced in the conjunction of Catalan DOs and Cava DOs, marketing more than 2,700,000_hectolitres of vi, of which more than 57_per_cent we exported. Therefore, the vi sector, the cava sector in Catalonia has a very solid and competitive structure, with more than seven hundred bottlers, and for which more than 25,000 people work; in fact, almost 26,000, between people already in the vineyard, in the cells or in the service sector. We can assume, though it is said that we are a small country, of twelve designations of origin of very high quality, and that they bring our vine and our cellar to be wines and cellars of very high quality, thanks to the regulations established there. With a production of more than 180_million ampoules of vines and more than 200_million ampoules of cava, seventeen_ thousand Catalan winegrowers belong to a name of origin. All these figures that I have just summed up in these last two minutes are certainly reflecting a powerful sector in our home, a sector that does things well and needs to continue to grow in quality, which, in fact, will be the guarantee that the sector will continue to grow and drive the Catalan economy. And that is precisely why we are convinced from Esquerra that Catalonia needs a law more adapted to the current context of the wine sector, that it helps it to face better the challenges posed by the future, to increase the competitiveness and profitability of the sector, its modernisation and the innovation of the farms, to ensure its quality by mitigating aspects such as the traceability of the product as well as the training and professional qualification of winegrowers and winegrowers. And today, for us, a good news, let's start the parliamentary process, as I said, with this debate to the full of a law that, in our opinion, responds to these needs that we have explained to them. A wine law that will update and improve Law 15/2012 and does so in different aspects. The current state of affairs is in line with the new European standards which, since 2002, have emerged at a particularly European level and have therefore been encapsulated from the common organisation of the market in wine up to Regulation 1308/2013; standards which, obviously, are to be complimented and which should be incorporated into our legal order. We understand that this law also updates and improves the law of 2002 because it incorporates fears that we have already regulated or decreed or by order, etc., but it crosses them, gives them the rank of law, and, moreover, makes it consolidated into a single thing that obviously makes legal certainty and the certainty of standards much easier between a single text. And we also understand that this read is to take advantage of the experience of the development that we had been having to find those legal gaps that were there or those points where it was better, and cover them, and therefore, with every request to give us a proposal, a bill of law that is much more suitable for the sector at these times and the times that it is now to face. This bill – I won't be very extensive, because it has already been done by the council and the previous speakers – but it incorporates various aspects or novelties that seem to me significant, and we talk about planting and replanting themes to create a variety of varieties, to put the Department of Agriculture as a competent body to inspect aspects such as the promotion of the culture of the vine and the promotion of technological transfer, among others. And here I would like to make a comment, which is that the Incave is also set up as the competent authority, certainly. By the way, as we know, regulators do not have a problem with the fact that the Cave is a competent authority; in fact, in other areas, such as oil, the department is already a competent authority. And, of course, the Cave is not a stranger to us, it is one that forms part of the same department, and that, therefore, we cannot quote it as if it were an organism that has nothing to see. As I said, today we are starting to deal with this project of wine law in Parliament, with the good news, we understand, that there has been no mention of totality, which makes us think that, as a minimum, there is a certain consensus with a basis of text in this draft law, which comes from the department, which we can all share. The same way I'm sure we all share that, from now on, we see a job that is to improve this text and do it not only among the political groups, but also listening to all the people in the sector, who are the great experts and who, moreover, must be the great beneficiaries of this law. In the Republic Group, as it cannot be otherwise, they will find their hand extended to make this work folded, to improve among all this bill so that the law that we hold in the sector and in the country can be established. That we need to keep on improving with this quality that I gave them, to keep on improving because only from quality can we compete in a complex world exporting our wines with a fantastic presence in the international world but we still want more and better and better quality so that they can get to everything. Because, as someone has said before, not only does this help us at the territorial level but it also helps the Catalan economy a lot. Therefore, as I said, the extended hand on behalf of the Republican Group; we work on a law that seems to us absolutely fit for our camp and our pagesia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.136.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on this turn, it is the time of the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia. The word has Mr. Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.137.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, Counselor Jordan, MPs and MPs, representatives of the sector, today we are talking about the new wine law of Catalonia. This morning it presents a bill that talks about life, the economy, the country, the vine, the quarry, and the agricultural councilwoman, Meritxell Serret, continues to be forced into exile. So, it's a debate on, one more time, we're not all there. For this reason I accuse the State: there is no future without justice and no prosperity without freedom. I say this because today we are discussing an important text that has to generate instability, confidence and, therefore, future and prosperity in a strategic sector, a sector that is nuclear in many parts of the country. But the citizens and the economic agents also the company connected to the world of the vine, also the page, also the cells, must be, we must be very aware that without freedom, with evil democracy, it has not prospered. We have to do laws and we have to do them well, very well, counselor. And Governor Torra has to be ambitious in his bills and he has to rule. And this government governs as it proves in the presentation of this bill. But no one is wrong, I insist, without freedom it has not prospered. And today we're talking about a tool of prosperity. I'm a witness. Today Martorell is an essential industrial pole to hear the economic structure of the country. Martorell has the SEAT, it manufactures Ibiza and the new Audi A1 exclusively for the whole world. When today a car is manufactured every forty seconds, only fifty-five years ago there was a sea of wineries. And I live in Vilafranca where I breathe because I come here, as Mrs Llop said, I come here and I'm a character, I'm a culture, I'm a landscape and I'm an economy. Soc del Penedès, but it could be the Priorat, the Conca, the Terra Alta or the Pla de Bages. Catalonia is a country of vi and country of cava. The page, the page, works the winery, laura, sulfata, screola, sporga, escabella the strain, intersects the punches, takes care of the winey as a part more of his family, and the celler also has this magic of the pass for the office. This wheel of labors and obligations, however, needs a piece more, more, cabdal, than the government, than the standard mark and that the law accompanies it. Helping, collaborating, making it easy, this is our great challenge. The coming is a magnet and the cell too, and a responsibility. It is a culture, a way of doing and a powerful economic activity. You know that. And with this law the government and Parliament will be on the rise. I'm thinking about the page now, that if you're gonna get a weed out of the strain punch now, that if you're gonna get a pair of birds that don't let the sun in. The pay estimate of the office, the job is pure vocation. The coming and he are therefore a exercise of generosity. Sorting a strain, a variety, planting today, and not putting fruit back together until many years ago is a simple, transparent act of generosity. If you come and see it build up in the culture of generosity and have its pillars in a wise patient, the policies of all colors in this Parliament we must be able to be able, to be able to find, to treat the sector with this same generosity. And this law is generous, because it's well done and it can still be more. Go away, it's solid today and he knows that the important thing is tomorrow. Since Parliament we must not explain to the twenty-two thousand people who work in Catalonia in this sector how to take care of the vineyard, nor how to do it, I would just miss it. But we must make it easier for them and we must give value to what they already do. The draft law presented today will modernise, update a law that came into force in 2002. So, it's been seventeen years. It is a law that has been overcome and that therefore needs to be put to the day in order to be more effective; it can serve better, it must serve better. That's the shared challenge. The situation of the living sector in Catalonia needs new tools, and this is what it is. This bill of law will apply various whites, as explained, of the standard mark that are now scattered. This could affect the competitiveness and strength of the sector and not allow it to grow. That's why we had to react, that's why we reacted. That is why a new legal certainty will be offered to producers and wine makers. We therefore adapt to European legislation and deepen the quality guarantees that define the country's wines. This proposal is a great umbrella, put order and back into a text that today is scattered. We give a law rank to Catalan wine regulation. And it's that the wine sector and it's a strategic sector for Catalonia. The sum of economic and cultural power is a multiplier of opportunities and, at times, also of responsibilities. The wine industry accounts for 5.6_% of the total of our agri-food industry, as has also been pointed out, and this industry is also cabdal, it is basic. For what it does to see that we export, different figures have been commented on. 2002 was under 400_millions; on the other hand, the year 2007 exports amounted to EUR 611_million. Catalan wines, moreover, are exported to more than one hundred and forty countries of the world – one hundred and forty. To settle down, to make an idea, before I told them that today there was SEAT in Martorell years ago there were vineyards. So the SEAT, which exports a lot, and exports well, up to seventy-five countries. He saw, our quality saw, up to one hundred and forty markets. We export saw almost all the countries of the world. Grow and consolidate, consolidate and grow. This new wine law has new features, it has also been pointed out: planting and replanting authorities, creation of a variety of varieties, the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia and Fisheries as the only organ competent to carry out inspections, and also previews the new oenological practices. This intervention of two minutes is not intended to go into depth in the contents of the bill, but I would like to point out that this project emanates from a firm modernizing will. This transformative idea brings us to the spring of the bone: "To transform is a verb, it is an action that must obey us. Catalonia is avant-garde or not, it's transformation, rethinking, imagining, creating, typing, trying. The new law is placed in line with these values, because these are our values. Today we can no longer use the technique of the capphicate, as they do the pages in the 18th century; today we can no longer have contracts based on a vassallage structure as is the case with the emphyteuuse. This sloppy project, it's a point and apart: regenerate the winery to make it more productive and more quality. We need this law. Transform to grow up, grow up respectful of what we are. We want to build a country where no one imposes on pages as they are to do, or to whom they are to sell it. We want a country of quality. We are talking about an economic and cultural environment with the capacity to be a socially recognized, socially powerful business sector at the forefront and talking about wine and wine. We are a country, talking about the coming and the seeing, we are a country that defeated the fil·loxera, an insect, a small beast, small and ferotge that destroyed everything. From Sant Sadurní del Penedès we can get a lesson that serves everything: when you cause, there are two ways of doing, the lament and the poor, or creativity, give once more to things, and rise up. It is true that we are the country of the SEAT, we are a tourist country, a country that has just grown bigger in the fields of research. We are strong in design and architecture, but we are also a country of wine and vi. And the thread, I insist, serves us in any field, and, if I may, also, or especially, in politics. That the pugo of conformism does not settle in our wineries or our economy, but that the pugo of conformism also finds space neither in our society nor in our politics. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.138.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over and as no papers have been presented to the whole, this initiative continues its processing. So let's just move on to the next point of the order of the day. [[Government inquiry into the civil service]] [[300-00041/12]] We start with two questions; the first is about public service, and it is presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and the question is formulated by Mrs. Alícia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.139.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors. Good morning, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, and also the unions that are accompanying us from here today, physically, but also to the networks, because, as you know, at these times the public service could say that it is in crisis, and therefore, they obviously have an interest, that parliamentary groups are concerned with their demands, bearing in mind that they probably do not find a mass government loving their criticisms, their demands. Probably the public employees of Catalonia..., and so if I say so, why do we always have to leave so much, say so, of doubt, but probably those who have suffered the most from the retailing and elimination of their labor rights, and I say so in relation to the rest of the public employees of all the State, because here it was not only the 2012 pay as in other communities, but also the 2013 and 2014 pay were the same. We were champions of retail. That government of Artur but, therefore, withdrew up to three payments, which is part of the three-year son to the public function. But, in addition, he eliminated other social rights that had succeeded in mediating collective bargaining by the unions, and that are, therefore, the social foundations; contributions to pension plans; productivity; the 15_% reduction of the day and the internal self, that in Catalonia, to the Government of Catalonia, is a very high mountain; paralyzing the public offer... I think we are now talking about a public offer that is what President Puigdemont approved, not even this government that we have now. That is to say, there have been many details, many removals of rights that have not largely recovered yet by public employees. That doesn't make us much stranger to the Socialist Group and Unites to move forward, because we've had enough years already since the government that's been in Catalonia for some time now has as its intention and as its intention to expand the public sector. He's been doing it from a lot of points of view, and he's been doing it to families many times, those nursing tasks for infants, for the care of the great people, for the disabled, and so this is a topic that we care about, because we want a strong public sector, able to serve the citizens, to generate good welfare, to give quality in public service. And it's what at these times is not that they don't want, but that they can't donate public employees to this service, because their conditions aren't the right ones to donate them. For this reason today, counselor, therefore, they hold various waves of public collections. We've been calling for the job for the coming week, for the whole week, the job for the job; we've got the job for the public employees for the 12th of September, almost 250,000, 300,000 people affected, with their families, who are also suffering from the fact that these public employees are being painted; but we also have complaints and demands for moves, for firefighters. Therefore, the collectivities that are telling the government: "We need answers and solutions are many. And the answers and the solutions that they ask for are not just about the return of double payments, which is true that it is what makes the most sound and is what we have claimed here also some parliamentary groups, but it would be good if we looked at this problem with an extended vision. Because what you are saying, for example, is that you cannot give a good attention to the patient, because of the twelve minutes each of them should be devoted to three or four, and therefore what they say is: "Listen, we want to listen, we want to better serve our patients. And so it goes with the masters, and it goes with the firemen, and it goes with the moves, and so they have to listen. This government has to listen more, it has to rule, and it wants to rule first, and then it wants to see if we can put solutions; one after the other, yes, but put solutions, and we think it's been too long since these solutions are given. That's why I told you, counselor, 15 days ago, that you meant to avoid these waves. Finally it couldn't be like this, and some of them entered the call for this vagueness at the Treball office. And I think they couldn't help it because they didn't do the job. Miri, on the 31st of October, you know, he called the General Bureau of the Public Service, he went very badly, the unions were insulted by the proposal that you had to return the payments of 2013 and 2014 in eight years, they rose from the table, he suspended that table, and from the 31st of October until today, that it is 21st of November, they did not receive a trick of the councillor, of chief councillor. They sent two cards to Councilman Aragonès, and yesterday they handed a letter to President Torra. No answer has yet been rejected. Couldn't do a formal table, but, informally, couldn't you call? Couldn't you try to start a conversation by, like at least, lowering the tension? So that didn't happen. You have President Torra, I know it's hard, he hasn't told the truth. He said that you met with the unions yesterday and that's not true; he didn't meet there. He found himself there by the street, when they were demonstrating in front of the Plaça Sant Jaume, demanding that they reach them. It's not this meeting that I think President Tora should have mentioned, because there was no meeting, and there was no call, and that's what seems to us to be really harder. We believe that these things are the responsibilities a government has: to face, to address problems and to try to solve them, and that is what has not been done in this case. And, look, many times the parliamentary groups bring here the demands because, therefore, you do not follow them. This happened in 2016, when all the unions came to meet with parliamentary groups, and from there came a motion for a resolution, and it also went on to October, when we approved a motion for a resolution on payments, and it happens today. The unions will meet with all parliamentary groups to talk about this today at six o'clock in the afternoon. That's to say, it's not that we... we do our job, that it's to control the government and proposals to the government, but then, that the unions, when they don't get a response from the government, come looking for parliamentary groups, and today it's what's going to happen, this late, I say, unfortunately, because I mean that there was no solution, on the part of the unions together with parliamentary groups. Miri, counselor, honestly, you have to look for solutions. Above all, because most of the state's administrations, namely the State, the autonomous communities, the joint ventures, which have suffered a great deal and which certainly do not have as much margin as even all the autonomous communities, have returned not only the 2012 pay, which was the one that they had retaliated, but also other rights that were suspected. Most of them have returned. Hardly? So many, but they must have prioritized in their presupposition, what is it that we give them, why, what is it that you don't do? Prioritize him, prioritize him in his presupposition. Listen to me, said Mr. Castellanos in an interview that, surely, the Generality would look forward to the year coming 1,600_million more euros to devote to spending, complementing the rule of spending and the target of deficit– 1,600_million euros. So, listen'm, pay priority. You keep the list, so put on the list a part of the payments. I know you can't pay 1,100_million euros in a year, you know that, I think the unions know that, too, but, man, you have to make gestures, and if you have 1,600_million euros to spend more, put a share of the payments. And they make a reasonable, honest calendar that allows us to look at our public employees, who are actually so much painted from so long ago. Look, counselor, I told you the other day: what you have to do is listen, is complete Parliament's resolutions, among other resolutions that say that..., and the government's agreements that say that 10% of the 2013 pay was due this year, but I don't just want to do that, but I also want to make some petitions from other collections. They came to see each other the other day, because now they're taking you to public competition with the general bodies, and they don't take into account that there's a general thing that's the environment, that they've been working for many years in the generality and that they won't see in these oppositions, so, the specificity of the environment, with the importance that the environment has at these times; I suppose we'll all agree on that. So we do a general thing in which there is no topic dedicated to the environment, and therefore these environments are not represented in these calls. It seems to me quite denied, say, for the country, for the legal environment, and for this way we have to do it. This has to pass the second semester of the coming year; I hope you can resolve it. We'll incorporate that into our young lady. And yet there are still some other: the social workers, who also come to see us today, and who have already come to see us, and from that visit came a young man who was approved and who said that for the social workers, that many of them are women of a certain age, who carry 20 years of interns, they would go out of places, and you wanted to compete. It was approved in that resolution that in contest accounts opposition is contests of merit, because people who wear twenty years of service should have some value added to the hour of taking that square; and not only contests, but also these contests of merit that allow these people to wear so long, and that it is not their fault that they do not have, say, a place in property, but that there have been no calls on their positions, so now they find themselves in this situation. So they haven't made any case with that motion for a resolution, and today we have them here, this late, to complain, and to say, "How can Parliament approve one thing and the government do another? So, look, I'd make them a long list, unfortunately. It can't be. They'll have to listen more. You must complete what you approve and sign. They must complete the one that approves this Parliament. And, above all, they have to prioritize what you say, Counselor Puignero, and he said in the media that he wants to do, that he is paying public workers. So do it. Listen to me, 2017, this administration completed the deficit target. I'm sure he'll do it in 2018. If you complete the deficit target and the expenditure rule, then pay the payments in your priorities. No problem, it's as simple as that: prioritise it and pay it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, the Mr. Puignero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.141.0	Thank you very much, President. Very good morning, Members and Members, so also, to the trade unions that are attending this plenary today. We have a good opportunity to talk about the public service situation today, huh? , and of the reptes, in this case, that has the public function before this new administration of the 21st century. Look, let me, first, start, so I'm referring to the importance that public service has as one of the four pillars of governance of a government, of an administration, and it also happens in the realm of companies. Today, we no longer only need, obviously, therefore, a good professional in front of an administration, but also, obviously, as has traditionally been, the lever – the lever – of governance of economic resources, but there are also two more levers than, sometimes, you, Mrs Romero, speak little, eh? , which is also the technological governance lever of data. All this will make up for the administration of the 21st century, and I hope that we have the opportunity to talk about all these food fish in order to finally be able to give a good service to our citizens. We have to rethink the administration of the 21st century in an era that I always say will be digital and citizen and, therefore, to the service of the city, eh? , an administration that thinks and works with the citizen's view and also incorporates the digital elements of this time to offer, say, a co-governance service. I'm also talking about coworking, teletreball elements; I'm also talking about how we incorporate new timetables and hourly reform, and, therefore, how we use these tools to improve the day-to-day work of our workers for what they do to their job in the Administration. And, obviously, also, all the assumptions that you have commented and that I would now like, so, also, to deal with in my intervention. In the first place, without obviating something that is obvious, the public service has been a collection that has made many sacrifices these years. He did it during the time of crisis, and withstanding what was a public service with a high level of quality. And, therefore, we do not forget this, as we do not forget the pocket they have made during the 155 girls' costs, which have already been exposed, of which have been the repercussions of 155 also on our workers. And so is this government's commitment to reverse this situation, and so to recover and initiate a recovery process that we've exposed since the first day we took possession. I have done it myself – I have done it – on repeated occasions, and the only thing we have asked for is... – and we are also asking, in this case, the Socialist Party, which is the one doing the questioning, is that in this way of recovering rights and being able to accelerate this process of recovering rights, we do not have the few. I therefore ask you to help us walk together. Look, this government and this government are involved in recovering workers' rights, and, in fact, we have demonstrated in different consensuses that we have reached in just six months. I can talk to him about six agreements in six months. It could speak of an agreement every month; it did not happen one month because we had the month of August, but it could speak to it, for example, of the approval of the work bag for the temporary coverage of places assigned to the offices of the Public Employment Service of Catalonia; an agreement that was concluded the month of June with the sectoral table. It could also talk about the approval of the selection criteria for administrative and technical staff, which will allow for uniform and objective criteria to ensure the selection of the administrative and technical staff of the Administration of the Generality. In this way, we will have a more transparent and objective system of selection of the staff involved, an agreement that we arrived at in July. I could also talk to you about the extension of the duration of a supplementary salary for prison staff, which was also granted in July. I could talk to you about an increase in the hours of personal insurance for this year to grant a disbanded holiday, approved September. I could, too, talk about wage increment for 2018, where we have sunk the maximum increment, of the 1.95 of the wage mass, which enables the rule in force; also the month of September. Or I could also talk about the agreement that we have reached and that makes it possible to perceive the 100_per_cent of wages in the case of temporary disability in all cases and from the first day. I could add, too, in this series of chords, to what we'll get close to, huh? For example, our goal already, and I have announced it, this month of December is to approve the public offer of fifteen_ thousand places to reduce interinternship. We're talking about teachers and teachers, administrative staff, etc. So in six months I think – and I hope we agree here – that this government has made passes and demonstrated its willingness to reach agreements and consensus where we have to hold them, which is in the sectoral months and in the General Bureau with the unions. It's obvious we haven't recovered everything. We have, for example, a great..., a great theme about the table, which is the return of payments from 13-14, which concerns us enormously. And, for that reason, this counselor, so, he's already asked and he's already said by active and passive that it's not a problem to volunteer not to pay, huh? We want to pay these payments and we want to pay them as soon as possible. But it is true that for the way there are a series of difficulties in which, you, who ask me today, could – could – help us – and therefore not go from ‘light and a little triller, eh? , in this Parliament, for which it does this question. I say this because I went to see Minister Batet, at the bilateral meeting to discuss different subjects related between the Government of Catalonia and this council for which he does, therefore, to the fear that we have on the table together, and this was the first point I put to the smell of the day of the meeting, which is: how the Government of the PSOE could facilitate and help to facilitate in the payment of these – these – payments. Not in the payment, I forgive, because we will pay them..., simply that you authorize us the mechanisms to help facilitate this payment. What we found at that first meeting was, therefore, an absolute refusal, in this case, to except what is the forty-first additional provision of the Law of Presumables which..., certainly, approved by Mr Montoro, and which would, for example, help to facilitate the return of these payments. We are prepared and therefore we will work because this is possible. Look, you're gonna tell me right now that we could do the same. I will read, in concrete terms, the one that says the measure. The measure clearly states that..., says: « This measure..., can only be approved by administrations and entities meeting deficit targets and as well as the expenditure rule. Do you know what's wrong with him, Mrs. Romero? What... I think you feel very comfortable with the People's Party premise. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. I think they're... they feel very comfortable. I think that they are not making any effort, precisely, to approve a new premise in which it is possible to except, for example, these questions, and..., because they know that this would not pass the filter – the filter – of Brussels when they had to agree, therefore, with their members of Podemos; and, therefore, it seems more than you with the subject of the premise and in questions of the return of the payments are more – more than – of "light that they do not really want to solve a problem that they could, absolutely, facilitate. Therefore, I would ask you that, in this sense, if the PSC still paints something in Madrid, therefore, they help us with the minister to be able to facilitate what must be the flexibility of this forty-first additional provision. If they don't do it, I'm already moving that we will already enter a formal consultation with the Government of the State, and, in concrete terms, with the Minister, on this issue, both the Secretary of State and also in the same Congress of Deputies with a direct question to the Minister. And, therefore, it is also at your fingertips to be able to help us in this willingness to make this return of payments, in which we, like the Government of Catalonia, have already submitted a first proposal to the unions, which obviously did not please them; but that, in any case, we are willing, if we return to the negotiating table, if they return to the negotiating table, to be able to improve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.142.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's the turn of the congresswoman's line. When do you want Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.143.0	Counselor, you see, let's go to pams. Public administration reform, public directive status and a few more... or so, you'll tell me now. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Does he know what's going on? That the Socialist Parliamentary Group has long put forward proposals for a resolution approved in this Parliament which instructs the Government to do all this, and has not done so. I remember some debate with Vice President Joana Ortega about this. I mean, you can't tell me we're not talking about what's important. And as long as we're talking about what's important! The only thing that happens is that we don't move forward. And what we're talking about today is what's urgent, that's that the working conditions they have at these times public employees are businessable, and that we'd have to start threading the needle to solve them. Because now you've told me some chords, little ones, very small ones, because on return, recovery of suspicious rights, head. And you say the 1.5..., that's to say, everything he explained, some of the agreements he explained to them we approved..., we had a decree from him. They came from a... from the Law of General Presumptions of the State approved by the People's Party and Montoro. It's like what you've done is an application of it here. It's a..., he said: "Five chords. Well, in a decree there were five points, yes. Well, if you mean five agreements..., it was an agreement – an agreement – that was a signature that the unions set up. But if it seems good to me that you're moving forward with things! But, listen to me, it's that you have a hard problem with the public service, with the public employees, and, if not, why do you keep them out? It's just, honestly... if it's all so good, if you're meeting them so much... if you're up on so many deals, why do the doctors, the public employees? Why now, in addition, have the railway workers of the Generality been incorporated into the public employees? And maybe this grew up. I don't know, things don't have to go so well. I think this government would do well not to be so self-contained, to make some constructive criticism and see if the situations are not as masque as he paints them and can improve them. Honestly, I think it would be nice for us to look at each other as a Mirall. About..., you say I went to the lighthouse. Home, it's okay for this government to tell me, isn't it? (LAUGHS) This government and the groups that conform it, that I went from "light." Miri, what you need to do, which is the government of this country and which has skills and capabilities and a budget of €38,000_million, is to govern and prioritize this expenditure. Miri, EUR 24,000 million will not be financed. Miri, if you have money. Miri, and he has the ability to prioritize. So in these 24,000_million euros that the year we will add 1,600_million euros, according to the Department of Economics, places a part of the payments. I just don't know where the problem is. I don't know what solution Minister Batet has to give him. I don't know how many things we have to approve of. Miri, it's just his political will that's missing. They have an important premise. Listen, what this..., is that – it is – in the end it will seem that they take more decisions on the executive team of a CEIP than you do. They have a very important assumption. Please, priority. If you want to pay them, and say you have the money to pay them, then pay them. Yeah, plus, it's that Constable Borràs signed, signed back 10_per_cent of the 2013 pay this year 2018. Who keeps them from doing this, then? Because they do other things. The other day, reviewing things, I saw that you had opened a call in the Health Department for research topics. That's fine, but that wasn't there, it's new. It's like they're doing new things. I don't know why..., what prevents them at these times from paying 10_percent of the 2018 pay with an agreement signed, signed with a councillor, Constellera Borràs? Listen to me, if you want to do it, as they say, do it. Twenty-i-four million euros of expenditure will not be financed, plus 1,600 million euros that will be spent in the coming year. See if they have the possibility to put in there – I no longer say 1,100 – 200, 300, 150 to start paying. Listen to me, they have to complete the deficit target, the expenditure rule, like all communities, like joints, like all administrations. They're complete, if they're done, if 2017 are completed! Why don't they complete 2018 and 2019, as other years have done, incorporating this need? They don't carry a responsibility that's not theirs, that's theirs. But don't you want to create an independent republic with all the competitions? So this one's got it – this one's got it. [[Some applause.]] They have a presupposition. Prioritzin– prioritizing. I don't carry the others, really; it's small, it's P3: "It's the fault of the other – it's the fault of the other. Like other people? About Councilwoman Batet... do you know how many agreements she's reached with the unions in the civil service? Five big deals. I say: remuneration, consolidation of work places, mobility, equality and reconciliation, social conditions. Five great deals – five great deals. And within these five, there are four or five more, that's to say, twenty-five, that's what you do, divide each of the agreements. Listen to me, wake up, negotiate... And that's what you have to do and what they ask you to do. And the state government has already said that if you don't approve of your assumptions, because you and others don't want to approve them, you're going to try to do what you can because these agreements are going through law. And, really, I also say one thing to you, counselor: you have to make government and I have to make opposition, and not here you have to make opposition. I understand that there, with Rajoy there he lived better. In fact, Puigdemont and the PDECAT did not want it, that there is a change of government there, but there is a change of government, a government that listens [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , who is sensitive to the public service, which is what we would ask you to have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.144.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.145.0	Listen to me, and apply solutions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.146.0	To replicate, it has the word, again, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.147.0	Well, honourable Member, all he has to say is that, because we can pay the foreign payments, we push the taxes, which is what you, the socialists, like very much, huh? [[applause]] That we're making a big push of taxes. Miri, you're all fixed up, often with this measure, huh? , pushing taxes. The one they were supposed to do, huh? In the first place, it is working to reduce the main tax on the citizens of Catalonia, which is the tax on the tax deficit. [[You laugh and you see.]] That's it. 'Cause if we want to talk about why we're in trouble and you're in trouble for the generality to be able to finance, huh? , much of its public services, the first major problem it has is that of the fiscal deficit, which you know very well that it has been calculated by different institutions and in all women, in the case of the Generality, in favor, so to speak, of the Generality. So, in the first place, please, work above all to eliminate, huh? This infamous imposition that we suffer and that, therefore, the public servants of our country also suffer. Secondly, you have been quite eloquent: you are very happy with the assumption of the People's Party, you just said it right now, you are very happy with imposing on the autonomy, so the deficit limit, the expenditure limit, so apply, huh? , the assumption of the People's Party. Listen to me, they've made it very clear to us. So look, we're not, we're not happy with this People's Party premise and, so, we'll work because Catalonia and, so, its government, huh? , there is a much better deal, in this case, of the PSOE government and we will defend it more surely than its parliamentary group in this Parliament, because we will bring to the Congress of the Initiative Deputies in the measure of flexibility these topalls that are making it difficult for us to be able to respond to the needs of our public services, and also citizenship. And that's why we find ourselves with problems like we have at these times, with legitimate waves that have unions and what we're trying to answer to as we can, huh? , as we can and above all, also, the incapacity that have groups like yours, that could help us a lot in this work and do not do it, Mrs Romero – and do not do it. So, less lessons, huh? Let's learn less from this government, and bear more with this government in the pocket of what is a well-functioning and which is a foundational lever of governance today in a country, which is its public function. If you really want to help us with this proposal, listen, we'll sit down tomorrow, and that's what I want to do and what I'll do with the formal consultation with the minister to clarify, huh? , these possible doubts that you have and with the parliamentary question, if you want to prevent this from happening, accompany me in this proposal, and I am sure that we can then give a better answer to the unions, to the workers of the Government of Catalonia, and also to the citizenry, with a much better service. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.148.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on primary and community care]] [[300-00042/12]] The next question is about primary and community care, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The honourable Member takes Escarp's question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.149.0	Good morning, President. Counselor, I told you before the Member who preceded me, didn't I? When I was talking about public service, I was talking about two words that I think we're all repeating, that we're dignity and respect. Dignity and respect for them called for the movement of squadrons and firefighters in their mobilization; they call for the 250,000 public workers called for in the wave, and that's the motto with which they called for the call for the wave and the professionals of primary care: they speak of a dignified and respected primary attention. You should ask yourself why, beyond legitimate demands for work and wages, this is used. It is possibly because they feel forgotten, abused and, above all, deceived by some of the things that have been said that afterward they are not a fan. We talk and a lot of people talk about it, but when we talk about universal public health, quality, fairness and primacy... Mrs. Miriam Noguera said the other day that the Catalans remembered a Catalan minister who worked to carry it. So look, a good part of the Catalans remember a minister like Ernest Lluch, today, who divided years from his assassination, who brought us universal sanitation. And the other thing they remember are rulers like Mr. But and Mr. Boi Ruiz, who, with their detail, have caused the disaster where we have sanitation today and where, above all, we have primary care, because based on having to rush it and go smoothing the private, so we're where we are. The system was endured by the professionals, we gave it the other day, and the patience of the citizenry. But, if we want to, we talk – and that's what we want to raise today – about primary care. The primary care..., and the WHO tells us in a systematic way, that having effective and quality primary care is the guarantee for the viability and sustainability of the system and, moreover, there is scientific evidence that it gives better levels of health, lower population mortality, better quality to the user, and contributes to the sustainability of public systems and, above all, to social equity. But you also tell us that having good primary care means a series of requests. That it remains accessible; I mean – that's what we voted here – that we give ourselves an hour with our midwife or midwife in forty-four hours. We are, with a little luck, in five, six days, and in most cases in more than three weeks; this is not accessibility. Like the headmaster triguen so much to give you time, you end up going to emergencies. What do we do? We're collapsing emergencies and CAPs. Therefore, we lose quality care and one of the principles of primary school. You also tell us it has to be acceptable. "Acceptable means what she said before Congresswoman Romero: that the doctor has about twelve minutes to look at you, not at the computer, and ask you what's going on with you. Now we're between three and five minutes, and more, while looking at the clinical history and what they can, try to listen. They schedule a series of visits that are absolutely impossible and, moreover, schedule the same visits in the same hour, or go on, more visits in the same hour. These days the demands are clear: they ask for twenty-three visits, twenty-three visits daily! , which means that they should be more professional, because the opposite means more waiting time for the citizen and citizens and, therefore, less accessibility. The other principle is the continuity of care; it means that your doctor will follow you and there is a continuity of care. But what's the matter with us? That, like meths and meths run away from primary school, it's more early retirements there and where more mobility is called for because they end up cremated, so it turns out that at the end of a year you've got a lot more attention than you should have. Also ask, and one of the other principles, to be able to resolve; and this we have approved here too. To have the ability to mark the agenda of the specialists, to have the ability to access complementary explorations, which at this time cannot be. And the last thing the WHO says and asks for it is good governance. Professionals report heavy bureaucratic structures, which have not only lost efficiency and management autonomy in the centres, but there is no way to reduce these structures and directions, and now, with a very clear complaint that they are appointing directors and joints in the centres prioritizing ideological adscription to the highest management qualification; and this is very difficult. The primary care requires more resources and more capacity, but what has been done by this government, the previous government and the previous one – Mr. Boi Ruiz, the Lord Comin... – so it is to lose from the primary care, to give more to the hospital in some cases and to take us away from this 25_per_cent principle of the primary care assumption, which is what you mark for us in the Enapisc and is what the European countries of the time mark us. But there is so much less primary care that when the council appoints its councillor, it is neglected to appoint the professional head of the councillor to its councillor. It must be that he knows everything, but in any case, they're not even clear. Miri, the primary professionals have lost 30_percent of the salary, 50_percent of the DPOs, we have lost by the way thousand professionals, they do not cover the drops and there is no way to find specialists either in family medicine or pediatrics, because the MIRs are not targeted, because they know what they will find later. This is the situation that caused the call for a vacancy. It was before the president they're in negotiation. So much good went well, so much good left to listen and give answer, because we are talking about a collection in which we would have to pay back twelve years before we knew there was a vacancy, it is not a vague collection. Another day, Martin Zurro, a renowned specialist in family medicine, said: "If Catalan health policy was more coherent especially in the long run of these last years, combining strategic proposals of medium and long term with others that address more urgent and pressing issues, and all this in a permanent collaboration and listening framework, it is possible that the call for vagueness could be avoided. We all relied on the National Primary Care and Community Health Strategy, thinking that by convening meetings and commissioning, we would pull out who spends years, just like now the trades forum; so nothing. You think what will happen from here to two years, which is what needs to be done, but as long as you resolve the issues that need to be resolved, I also said so before. The problem with this negotiation, Counselor, is that they have lost the credit, that they believe that a woman when a negotiation begins, that good faith of knowing that the other one you say will be completed. And they've lost it because they've already signed these same claims with the North Metro professionals and they haven't completed anything. So, they've lost the credit. They're gonna have to prove that they want to settle down this time. Miri, it would be good for you to respond to the demands, to listen to them, that the citizenry should not suffer – even if it is absolutely supportive of them – a wave of teachers and primary care teachers, a wave in which there is also the infirmary and many other professionals. It would be good to respect the professionals and to stop thinking that a health system hangs on to voluntarism and to give the primary the dignity and respect that I spoke to the principle. And it would be good to complete Parliament's agreements because we have an hour at the headmistress or headmistress in forty-four hours, because we have a pediatrician in the CAP and because all the specialists that the Enapist recognizes, therefore, are contemplated to make a good primaryist attention. Miri, as you always question the National Primary Care Strategy, so I'll read you one thing, which you have defined as the vision of the National Primary Care Strategy and Community Health. Says: "The primary service network will meet the needs of people with the protection and promotion of professionalism and professionals, such as the primary value that guarantees the quality of care, and will have the proper provision of resources, equipment and capabilities. I don't think I can say anything else, fill your vision, that it's not a glance and it's a reality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.150.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.151.0	Thank you, President. Member, adviser, advisor and adviser, in a short way, I will take care of what you have placed around the diagnosis and the needs of the primary care of our country..., a primary care that from our perspective – and I think it is shared with the perspective of the majority of you – is much more than the gateway to the public health system. We must achieve – and the work of primary care was linked to this – that I accompany the person during all his or her stages of life; you placed him or her in continuity, and even in part of the intervention I will also speak, I think I will profit..., you know that I am responsible on behalf of the Vergés Councillor, because this is maternity leave, but I will also benefit from talking about some of the setbacks we have around social integration of health, which is also an aspect in which primary care is to be heard. Because, if we're talking about what goes beyond consultation and what integrates people's entourage and what works in the community, I think that is also the key to the whole area of social safety integration in which we are working together with the Department of Health and the Department of Social Affairs. Yes, I wouldn't want to forget myself – and I have written it down, because you said so – that it has been years since the assassination of Ernest Lluch, and from here we have also made a recognizance of the work that he did as a minister and the work that he did as a politician in this country. From here the challenge is to have an informed citizenry that wants to be co-responsible around his salvation. The sustainability and quality of our public health system depends to a good extent on the resolution and confidence-building primary care in the population. You say we've all left it in the hands of the National Primary Care and Community Health Strategy. We think it is necessary to have a strategy; we think it is necessary to have a short look around the problems that the system has at short notice, but it is worth a long look. Because you have to agree that it fits this long look because in large part..., and you have placed it and made the diagnosis only linked to the last few years, but I think that we are all here aware that the needs around our health care system go back and forth many years, and you also go back and forth with a system that has never been well funded in its entirety, and that this generates that this assignment has been pending for many and many years and that we have to work together. And that's why we bet and believe in strategy, and we believe in the need to have a long view, a deep view, that allows you to have this strategy. And that's why we have more than three hundred professionals involved; that's why we're doing participatory processes across the territory; that's why we have three areas of transformation: people, organizational and professional models, with seven strategic lines. It's a shared full-path long term that we think with the country we don't have to equip ourselves with. And that doesn't get all the work we have to do to reverse the effects of the retails in the field of salvation and around the short look; from the short look around the problems we have in primary health care. From here on, this willingness to keep a long look at us must make us have a shared vision and diagnosis from the perspective of professionals and scientific societies, and also of citizens who want greater co-responsibility. From here on, in the next few months we will begin the implementation of this full route, from rigour and prudence, closing the definition of new models of attention with the participation of professionals and collaborating around this aspect, which I believe is also important, which is social and health integration. Because we are aware, we have reptes in the subject matter of PIAISS; we have reptes in the subject matter of the connection of health and social health information systems, in this we have months working and we have to allow ourselves to have an information system that is complementary; we have reptes around the better health care, specifically for the large people, and here we are working together between the two departments to develop so many specific aspects of health care for residents as aspects also around home care services and to combine strategies between health and social services. We think that it is also a line of work, and that it is a line of work that is absolutely necessary at the time of pulling forward a primary care model that gives an answer without drops and that allows the city to be co-responsible and to have a continuum, not only from the realm of salvation but also from the social realm. You have found that we must give resolutive capacity – and you have placed it around the demands and principles that the primary care needs – the resolutive capacity of professionals. We don't discuss it. That's why we're debating with you and we're debating with everyone that we don't have to have closed solutions, that we have to respect this autonomy of the professionals, because if not, we won't get out of it in time to give a good primary assistance. He's placed several reptes on us, and I'm going to get him into every reptes in a very concrete way. It has placed the pre-date access to the midwife or nurse or nurse in less than forty-four hours. We need to take the right steps to ensure the pre-date and the forty-eight hour mark, but always subject to the working conditions of each primary care team. You've set it up. Infuse the visit to the reference meth in a unilateral guarantee term does not, in itself, favor that the reference meth that follows in any case, unless the entire meth's work schedule is dedicated to the pre-date, nullifying the space of urgent visits and thus laminating the autonomy of management of the professionals of his agenda. I think you are not aware, there is a reality that must also be met, that it is urgent visits. And this is what we believe in the autonomy of professionals around the management of their agenda. Therefore, it is not logical to focus solely on an instrument that does not sustainably guarantee the objective. And here's the complexity, and we'll work on it, and we'll talk to you about it. But we think it's important to situate it. It has also placed the challenge of restoring the staff that has been lost with the details of the years 2011-2014. We are working, we take into account all the needs. But we also give him a thought, and I want to think that he will agree. Substitution can't be mechanical. Or have the reps in the field of primary care changed? Do you hear that the needs of our citizens and citizens have varied? So, we can't do a mechanical replacement of lost professional profiles. We are moving towards a new model of primary care and community health – and this model we think, in a very honest way, that it is shared by professionals and entities – that it foresees that the primary care strengthens its role as the backbone of the public health system and improves its capacity for resolution. This means that professional profiles of primary care will necessarily be different from those of eight years ago. We have won professionally, yes, and we are, and we have made calls for places, but according to the needs present and future. We also take advantage of this to correct this adaptation to people's needs and the new model we want to build together. Let's just think that we, in this sense, have to do it this way. You have placed the called mobilization and the called vagueness. From our utmost respect for autonomy, it would be missing more, indeed it has found that it is a wave of doctors that is not a wave of infirmary, because it has not been convened for the infirmary unions, from here, what is close to us is dialogue. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] What we're close to is working together to find solutions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.152.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.153.0	...with the collection, and we will continue to do so. And the president today explained the meetings that the vice president will have and we will continue to do them in depth because our intention is to reach an agreement with the... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.154.0	You have the word, to make the reply, the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.155.0	Counselor, I respect when the government asks him and I know the situation of the councillor, I congratulated him, and yesterday I had occasion, at last, to know his daughter, with illusion, and, therefore, in this sense... But when a councillor answers a waiting that you answer, from the inquiry, that there is something there. I do not ask him for the level of knowledge of primary care and salvation, but he does ask him for a certain respect for the person who questioned him and the content of his own inquiry. As a result, in the end you made reference to the vacancy, because the first thing I came out was to ask him: "But do you know what a vacancy is called? I know that today the vice president is meeting with the union calling for this job, and I'm willing and I said to him, "Listen, negotiate, and let's see that this job can be solved. But, man, I certainly understand that you have a responsibility in the government, but we can't come here and talk about something that I agree with, huh? , which is social and health integration. But I wasn't talking about social and health integration today, because if we want to talk about primary care too. Because if we have the skills to enter directly into a health care provider the chronic disease that you have in front of you, the disease – the big, multi-pathological, chronic person – you see that you don't have to put it back into emergency situations and that the best could be a health care provider, but that we don't have the integration that you intended to talk about. It's like..., coming to talk about my book, so the ideal would be that the primary meth could get into the socio-sanitary agenda and directly get that person there. Because that would be a good primary attention and would prevent this person from ending up with the costs for his health, apart from all the costs derived throughout the system. So if you want to talk about this, the day you want, counselor, we'll talk about it. Because there are a lot of things, for example, how to keep the clinical history shared, which we haven't yet managed between each other. And, therefore, if you want to talk about it, let's talk about it. But it's that I came here today to talk about primary care. He came to speak not only of a conflict but of a system that is – you said – the gateway to the system and that we have to believe. You say: "Substitutions cannot be automatic. Listen, it's clear we're not gonna find MIRs pointing to the primary, if they've decreased by a 26_per_cent. If anyone asks a meth friend: « – Listen, I want to do the MIR in the primary. "He will say to them: "But what do you do?" You go to emergency, you do trauma, you study a little more and you get a good grade. Because it's been a long time since we've had MIR's best meths in primary school, because we despised her, because they despised her. And that's what I was trying to explain. I didn't explain to him great principles or what I believe. He said what the WHO said must be primary care like the cores of a system. And why else – you also say it and are not aware – we are ahead of a clear democratic change. We're bigger; we're bigger, we're bigger, we're older and we're sicker. As clear as that. And so, that's what we have to answer to, and the best answer to that we have to give from primary care, huh? We all say it in terms of salvation, when there is a code, a stroke, an infarct code, hospitable; when there is a frailty code, primary and home. And that's what you need to be clear about, and that's what you haven't answered. Listen, accessibility. Forty-four hours everyone knows that there is a medical criterion and that we all have to respect, but forty-eight hours is what we have approved in this Parliament of Catalonia, in which all professionals agree, which is the least for which primary care is. Because it turns out that then, if not, they say to them: "Yes, listen, we will only schedule them for twenty visits, but as we attend to the emergencies... Yesterday I gave me a diploma of the CAP, in fifty. Twenty to fifty. So, of course, not twelve minutes, not five, not three. He said to him, "Wait. We have to close the CAPs at a certain hour, but, of course, they are given and medium, and it turns out we have to attend the fifty visits. And they don't have to take care of them, they want to take care of them. And that's what I gave him, counselor, a system – and a health system like ours, public, universal, paid with taxes, that we want quality and equity –, which can't be done is to support ourselves on voluntarism. And I'm not talking about the presupposition, as the former councillor did, because if they vote for the state, possibly of the 2,200_millions that would come more to Catalonia, a good part we could devote to primary care, which it needs. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.156.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Again, for the reply, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.157.0	Congresswoman, when do you want me to answer it, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? All right, thank you. I think I've been absolutely respectful and I think you've found that part of the government's response is about the strategy. Of the strategy and you have placed it critically, that is not only the only answer, that is the Enapisc. Now, talking about primary care and community health and not talking, I hear the counselor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, about social and health integration to me that would seem like a lack of respect. And we're working with respect. And you've placed a few folds and I've placed them before. And I think talking about community salvation without talking about it, but for me, I think it would be disrespectful. I didn't do it out of disrespect. I think it would be disrespectful not to treat this environment. And from here you said it yourself, with which you can agree with my answer, but what you do ask is that you don't tell me that I'm disrespectful because I don't think you have any sense of primary care and community safety without talking about this integration. From here, you want to focus yourself now not only on primary care with all the short, medium and long-term challenges you have, you want to focus on the vagueness, the vagueness of primary care. So let's focus on the vaga. If we don't have a problem! And I've already entered, in my first answer, and I will continue to enter. We don't have a problem. Yes, they lost 17.3_percent of the resources between 2010 and 2014. And the impact is undeniable on the plants and the organization of the teams, I don't deny it. What have we been doing? A new model of allocation of resources from the previous legislature: 13_million euros per year 2017, 13_million more, enguany, for teams working with people with major socio-economic deprivation; the fight against job insecurity in public offers of employment, and the example are the opposition of 1,343 places of family doctors and 208 places of pediatrics. And that's what happened, you can say whether it gives a global answer or not, but it's done. Faced with the current situation: one, I think no one can deny that the Health Department is sensitive to the demands and discomfort of professionals. That is why it places primary attention in the centrality of the political action that the department does. The object? To schedule solutions at short, medium and long... because we also want solutions at medium and long terms, from complicity and consensus. And that's why we'll have as many meetings as you need. And as long as we do them! They're finding themselves constant in all spheres, and we're going to keep doing it. And the ICS has already placed and made proposals on various axes: adapting professional plants, improving contractual stability, improving management autonomy, adapting the direction to the care area, improving personal, work and family reconciliation, and revising the redistribution model. And that's what happened. Without going any further, the last government approved – and I think we should all be happy – a measure to improve retention of talent, and a measure that also makes us a much more modern and much more open society, that is that in the public health system people can be accessed... – and exempt from the demand for Spanish nationality to access a place of statutory work – people who have formed in our training system, in our university system, and who cannot retain this talent for this demand for nationality. And this Tuesday was approved, I think it's a concrete example. From here, I, too, cannot speak solely of the assumptions of the State that place this element, because the same argument I can place on the assumptions of the Generality, because it is an argument that implies that any assumptions that grow in social spending must be approved directly. Because I can also say to him: "Well, when we present the Generality's premise, no one will be able to vote against it, right? Because they will also be more resources for primary care. Okay. Later, you will legitimately have your autonomy, but this argument I think is an argument a weak little one. And the other element: we're looking at the infra-financing of the Catalan health system. Why do we have to claim that, too, huh? And that also explains the challenges we have in primary care. From here we will continue to work from the hands of all parliamentary groups, from the hands of professionals, from the hands of everyone to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.158.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.159.0	...to face the challenge of our country's primary attention. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.160.0	Thank you, Counselor. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.161.0	Let's resume the session. [[Proposed law on the use of symbols to institutions and the neutrality of public spaces (totality debate)]] [[202-00018/12]] The sixth point of the order of the day is the debate to the totality on the Law Proposal on the use of symbols to institutions and the neutrality of public spaces, as it was laid down and agreed to the Board of Spokespersons. As all the groups are well aware, the debate on the totality of this legislative initiative, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, will be co-substantiated with the agenda item, i.e. the proposal for the law guaranteeing institutional neutrality in the public space and in the Catalan public institutions, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia first takes the line to present its legislative initiative. And in this case has the word Mr. Andrea Levy, for, like, a maximum of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.162.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, today we are presenting a proposal for a law on neutrality in public spaces and respect for our symbols, which is presented together with another proposal for a law which is also presented by the Citizens' Group, which I believe is accompanying the one which we are presenting, and, in fact, I think it gives it greater value, because this amplifies this issue and shows that there is a problem with the situation which is gradually being established, is being created, is being generalized, and we can begin to have as normal a situation which is certainly not, and a situation in which a majority of Catalans are certainly not represented. And it is that, although for years, years, nationalism wanted to build an imposition of a story, drop by drop, that fell into the whole of Catalan society and that it took hold of the mental framework of thinking that we should all be and feel in the same way the fact of being Catalan, and that, therefore, it assimilated the fact of being good Catalan with the fact of being nationalist, as they now want us to believe that the fact of being good person is equal to the fact of being independent. Not content with wanting to impose from all the institutions, from all the powers of public power in Catalonia, including that of life and social and civil space, using for this time, resources of all Catalans and borne by all Catalans, from the public media, from the institutions themselves and from the so-called « Catalan civil society, which for a long time was resigned to the orders of nationalism, now also that imposition of the narrative wants to be done by the aesthetic means, and wants to do so by the imposition in the common spaces, in the spaces of everyone, of a symbolology, his own, that of nationalism, that of independence, which, unfortunately for you, is not that of all Catalans, and they know it. They know that they do not have that social majority, they know that during these forty years of nationalism they have not been able to achieve that social majority in their victimistic narrative, in their confrontational narrative. And now they also want to impose aesthetic totalitarianism on the streets, on the squares, on the beaches and on the public buildings, of all. Democracy, in its inclusive generosity, challenges us all, and lets us all express ourselves, in freedom, according to our feelings, according to what we think is good and better, for us and for the whole. But if democracy is generous in its integration, it must also be in its respect and tolerance. And wanting to impose a symbolology and wanting to reject a symbolology is the same as excluding part of those who do not feel represented by it. When you make your own, through your symbolism, the institutions of all Catalans are excluding, and you know, a part of Catalans, but what you want is to impose them, machaconically, as you have already done with the nationalist narrative, also now by the aesthetics, a way of thinking and a way, above all, of feeling intimidated and of believing, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, that that is normality, that that is what is right, that is what is going to make them good Catalans and have good feelings. But I think..., and in the tone of the speeches from the control session to the government this morning, it seemed to me that there is an intention to try among all of us to make the great democratic principles: tolerance and respect, to empathize and to understand the other; that is what the parliamentary chambers, here and the Congress of Deputies should do, where today, by the way, we have seen a shameful session and spectacle, which I believe should make us all reflect. Therefore, you cannot occupy public spaces and show that nothing happens and that that is democratic because you are compliant and comfortable with that symbolology. When Mr Bargalló says that public schools, that educators, that teachers can go with a political, ideological symbolism, and that that is freedom, it is not; because that is to explain a part of the story, which is not that of the whole Catalan society, is his. And I understand that you seem normal, but you're not going to make us look normal a part of a story and a part of an aesthetic that doesn't correspond to what the other great majority of Catalans think, that's not going to disappear because you independenceists don't like it. Moreover, this part of Catalans is not resigned. This part of Catalans has already said no. This part of Catalans has already gone out to the street to express that they did not agree to be invisiated by the Government of the Generalitat and that they were already tired of speaking on behalf of an irredent people, of the people of Catalonia, as a single voice, as if it were a homogeneous voice as in reality there are as many feelings as Catalans there are in Catalonia. But while I know that this proposal for a law gives you the same, gives you the same and you will continue to do what you consider appropriate, and you will continue to use the public spaces with your symbolism, you will continue to use the schools, you will continue to use the public media in Catalonia and all the institutions and resources in your possession to continue to advocate independence, because you will continue to be tireless in your ends, for that reason there are, to me, what I am most concerned about, and I am concerned with, this proposal for a law, as we are presenting in the Congress of Deputies, is the complicit silence of the Socialist Party. It is that today the Socialist Party wants to whitewash, wants to neutralize what is happening in Catalonia. Because you, lords of the Socialist Party in Catalonia, if perhaps your comrades from the rest of Spain stay far away, not you. You know what nationalist imposition is like. You know what aesthetic imposition is like because you have suffered it in your headquarters, because you have suffered it in your homes, because, when you walk through the streets of Catalonia, you suffer it. What happens, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, is that right now they are tied with a yellow tie to the chair of the Moncloa armchair. And therefore, they are able even to deny, silence and minimize what is happening here and how the battle of nationalist discourse is fought, as it is imposed, and as they now also want to impose the aesthetic battle on the landscapes, on the streets, on the beaches, on the squares of Catalonia. Do they think that this will help them to appease what is happening? Do you think that, by that handful of votes you need to stay in Moncloa, there's going to be, there's going to be... [[remorse of the voice]] – I suppose when the Independence Members interrupt me, you complain, too, don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.163.0	I complain when all the deputies and deputies interrupt, Mrs Levy. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.164.0	Thank you. It's just, since I'm making the effort to get out here, I'd like you not to interrupt me. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, I've gone out without papers, I'm spinning the speech, if you come to interrupt, it makes me lose the thread and I'm sure you're interested. Well, what I've been telling you. Retomo. Although we already know what the independenceists are going to vote for, we already know that they will want to continue to impose their story, no longer through mere speech but now also through the imposition of those symbols, of those banners, throughout Catalonia, the most worrying thing at the time is that the Socialists of Catalonia are silent. It is that the Socialists of Catalonia resign. It is that the Socialists of Catalonia, as they did in Congress, embarrass us all the Catalans we were here a year ago and that we knew what happened and that it was in the union of all the constitutionalists that made us stronger. You are breaking that union of constitutionalists by an electoral pact right now. You are whitewashing what happened a year ago by pure partisanship, because you bind the votes of the independenceists to the Moncloa armchair. And that is why they are able even to reject this proposition which only demands that, in the public space, in that of all, not in that of the People's Party, nor in that of Citizens, also in that of the Catalan socialists whom you represent, there be neutrality, respect and tolerance. That is your responsibility, the independenceists will never do it, they will not convince you of it, they will not become less independenceists because they now agree with you in the Congress of Deputies. They have seen it this morning as they behave, with the indignity they treat the Government of Spain, do they believe that they will get respect for them and respect for the neutrality, tolerance and coexistence in Catalonia of those who are not independentists? That is why we put forward this bill because we firmly believe in the inclusiveness of democracy. We believe that we all belong in democracy, but we must all feel ourselves and we must be able to feel represented without being signaled or intimidated in public schools with a political message that we do not have to share and cannot make us feel compelled to share. I appeal to the responsibility of the Socialist Party in this vote. I appeal that, if you feel more identified with the lady, the flag of all Catalans, with the flag of Spain, rather than with the stellate, you should vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. For there are many socialists who see in the roundabouts of the peoples, in the balconies of the municipalities as they prefer a flag, which is not the official, to the flag which represents only the independenceists, to them, to whom they have long wanted to impose on us a way of being and feeling, and who cannot achieve it. Do not make an accomplice silence in this vote. Untie yourself from the yellow loop that has them tied to the Moncloa chair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.165.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Proposal for a law guaranteeing institutional neutrality in public space and in Catalan public institutions (Debate of totality)]] [[202-00020/12]] And then he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, to present his initiative, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.166.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, public accompanying us, people who are seeing us from their homes or later, in default, on YouTube, look, you... [[Funnel veils]] – on YouTube or on Internet channels – I suppose – and now I am addressing you, those who have tabled an amendment to the whole – you will believe that in Catalonia everyone thinks that those who struck democracy in the last months of September and October 2017, because, they deserve impunity, they have not committed any kind of illegal act and their conduct is absolutely normal. And I suppose you believe that everyone thinks of Catalonia that 155 came as a meteorite falling from the sky and stamped in Catalonia, with its perverse effects, and that nothing had happened here to apply an article like that of the Constitution. I guess you all think Catalonia thinks so. And I have to assume that because, if not, it is not understood that you have tabled an amendment to the whole on a subject that affects free thinking and political expression in public spaces, the neutrality of public spaces, respect for all ideas and opinions. I suppose you'll think it's lawful for a city council, which is of all people, to display party symbols. I suppose you'll think that a street, which is of all people, is lawful to display party symbols. I suppose you think all this, as you think there is no division in Catalonia, because you have said it so many times. But the truth is that you are not – forgive me to tell you – the party that won the last elections in Catalonia. And you, therefore, do not represent most Catalans. Do you know why most Catalans voted for us? Because you saw that we were firmly opposed to the coup that you were carrying out against our democracy in this Parliament and because the rest of our proposals seem to you to be viable and interesting in order to govern an autonomous community such as Catalonia. That's why. So, if you in Catalonia know very well that you don't even have more than half of the votes, why do you strive to show that public space unanimously thinks like you? This is something that is obvious, that you do not want to defend yourself from the strength that it entails, from the abuse that it entails to become owners of public spaces through your representatives in the institutions, which are made the owners of the balconies, the owners of the facades, which with impunity allow traffic signs and urban furniture to be populated with the symbolism of their cause. Why don't you want it to be legislated? Why do you not want us to speak today, to speak here today and to make a presentation of a law and to speak in it and to come specialists and to come professors and to discuss here, democratically, whether it is logical or not that public institutions lose their neutrality and lose the objectivity that is stated in article 103 of the Constitution that should govern the action of public authorities? Why don't you want to talk about it? Because you're comfortable with abuse, because you want it, if you talk about it, you won't regulate it for me. "Don't regulate it for me," Buch will think, "because then I can't arbitrarily use the Mosses to stop those citizens who are going to remove the yellow ties and instead leave those who put them in peace. Why are you going to regulate something that allows you to abuse? Why would Mr. Bargalló regulate something that would prevent him from having schools full of party symbolism? Why would I do that? If he is more comfortable like this, like all the councils, which have all the symbols imposing them on all the workers of the council, think as they think, they have a certain political symbolism there in their working environment! Why would you talk about the neutrality of public institutions? It's not going to be that you rule, it's not going to be that we rule, it's not going to be that we start talking about this and this sounds too much in Catalonia, the daily abuse you commit. I know that it is logical that those who abused their parliamentary power – and they continue to do so – here in this Parliament, because they think that, listen, "what else, of course I am going to abuse my power on the street too, if I can. And they do. Look, I'm going to give you four examples. Look, the Ombudsman – but not the syndic of Greuges, huh? , the Ombudsman, which we also have; in addition to the Greuges Synod, we have the Ombudsman. Mrs. Ana Losada, who is the president of an assembly called For a Bilingual School in Catalonia... – Bilingual school, uuuh! [[relays]] , radical, an extremist of these who wants to be studied also in Spanish in schools, of these so evil. But in this case I wasn't talking about this, this lady. She complained – she complained – about indoctrination in schools, this lady. And look what he says, look what the Ombudsman replies to him in a letter dated 20th of the XI, that is, yesterday, yesterday. First the Ombudsman reminds him that on 7 August the Ombudsman – not the Sindic de Greuges – gave protection to a woman who complained because in the Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau de Barcelona there were yellow ties hanging. And then the Ombudsman gave amparo and called on our adviser, who is not here today because she is on leave, and said – let's see what radicalisms the Ombudsman said – "Freedom of expression for people in public facilities has a limit on the principle of ideological neutrality of public authorities – which are not political parties, the public authorities, he specifies – "and has its basis on which citizens who come to them, to public institutions – and quotes: "Hospitals, police facilities, delegations of Finance... –, "have a plurality of positions on the most diverse issues, all of which must be respected, without anyone being able to feel annoyed or alienated from the public institution concerned, which is everyone's and everyone's. Do you find it very revolutionary, very strange? Do you not think that, if the Ombudsman says something like that, we could talk about it here too? Well, that too..., quote, the Ombudsman himself, a judgment of the Fifth Chamber of the Administrative Litigation of this TSJ, of which..., with the coup you wanted to pull out all the judges of the TSJ and put your fingers to make a supreme court in Catalonia, which Mr Puigdemont was going to appoint them, because these..., as still that did not triumph, we have the Fifth Chamber of the Administrative Litigation. And the same thing: he spoke about the ideological neutrality of public institutions. And then the Ombudsman also explains in this letter that last October, in the joint committee of Congress and the Senate, there were complaints received about the indoctrination and use of educational facilities and centers for acts of political demand in Catalonia. And then I believe that the Ombudsman makes a very measured and very weighted assessment, that is, he does not throw himself into the pool right away, there, so that you think it is that, well, they are all very bad, supermal, Spanish and superpartial institutions, all that is not here in Catalonia. And then it says "well, although so far, it also says, "the complaints received do not have a particularly significant volume in relation to the number of centres and the total number of students in Catalonia – which is true – because it says: "it does not prevent us from saying, Mr Bargalló – and thank you for being here – "although the cases in which there were alleged cases of indoctrination in the educational field were very numbered, the mere fact of their existence should worry us all extraordinarily, and even more so those who are directly responsible for avoiding what, that is to say, the educational authorities of Catalonia and the rest of the State. This is the basis of coexistence, gentlemen! It's just that it's the basis of coexistence. And that's what we're bringing here, huh? We don't bring anything else. Are we talking about this? Or don't you want to talk, because you want to keep imposing...? That's it, isn't it? That's what this is about. Well, look, the Ombudsman also says something else: "The public authorities must respect the principle of ideological neutrality, proper to a pluralist society, and this is incompatible with the presence in public buildings, especially if such presence is permanent, of symbols proper to an ideology, the respect to which they must co-honest with respect for others, who compete in a free, open, democratic and tolerant society, and certainly not one that is absolutely intoxicated by an idea that seems to you so fair that you intend to impose the place where you go and in whatever way and above what it is. Well, as I said to you, let's see: this involves health, it involves education... Before I referred to the Councillor of the Interior, who involves him very directly also in the measures he has to take and in the threats he can make about who does, who removes ties or does not remove them. If we have a question here with ties, why don't we talk about it here and you withdraw your entire amendment? They still have a chance to look like a government that is moderately sensible, open and able to talk about things; they still have that opportunity. Look, another example I wanted to give you: the use of institutions in an absolutely instrumental way to serve an ideology. This very mayor of Llívia who took out the breasts of naming Inés Arrimadas non grata and who said that he would not go to the Trinxat of Puigcerdà if they were Carrizosa and Inés Arrimadas, because she was a non grata person, etcetera, this gentleman..., has come up with a news in the newspaper La Valira, of the Pirineu, which says: "The mayor of Llívia sends to the shit the castle glue of Cerdanya. Why? Because he refused to make a castle in honor of political prisoners. So what happens? He sent them a letter! He is so imbued, this gentleman, with the reality of his assertions that according to this medium he sends them a letter calling them..., what is called a glue that does not make a castle in honor of political prisoners? How? "Inadequate; "inadequate" intolerant. Okay, so: "Do we want a glue with identity and values for Catalonia or not? The mayor wonders. And she concluded the message with a warning: "We'll talk about it already. Sometimes it's losing more than it's guanya. And it says the news that the castler association..., check out what it says: "The glue is want to keep to the margin of political disputes. Look at you guys. What things to say, isn't it? [[relays]] – what things to say. "In this sense they defend as the apolitical association that they voted unanimously not to be obliged to do a coordinated action for a political party, which is what it is. What a thing, huh? That's a lot of stuff. So "it stopped this negative if it prevented them from continuing to attack the municipal polysport of Llivia. And they're also targeting other gatherings with false accusations boycotting them for social media and communication media. Anyway. This is what is happening in Catalonia: that municipal sportsmen are not left to those who do not participate in acts of the Administration in an absolutely partial and partisan sense. The yellow ties reach the Christmas lighting of Barcelona and start the yellow ties of the Christmas lights in Barcelona : immediate consequence. Are we going to talk about this, or not? Are people going to impose the yellow bonds until there are people who take and face and pull the yellow bonds? Is this what we want to happen in Catalonia? [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] So look, to end now – to end now – there are amendments to the whole that speak for themselves – there are amendments to the whole that speak for themselves – of the democratic talent of the person who presents them. If you avoid arguing to continue with the abuse, do not complain that..., the citizens, the people, the people, the veins and the veins..., the wild beasts, the beasts that shout and put resources, the involuntary linguistic colonizers, mobilize to defend what you want to destroy, which is the neutrality of public space, a neutrality that is guaranteed by a constitution – still – that you certainly do not feel like your own. Mr Buch said this at the police demonstration: "I have to let them manifest themselves, because with the Constitution that we have in force in Spain, of course, I have to let them manifest themselves. Well, with the Constitution that we have in force...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.167.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.168.0	... you should respect the neutrality of the public authorities, without it being necessary to legislate in this Parliament, as you have now made it necessary. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.169.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and in order to defend the totality papers presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the deputy Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.170.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies and deputies, good afternoon to everyone. Well, the time has come: those who want to Spanishize Catalan children, now it turns out that they also want to do it with public space; now they want to neutralise and make an ideological cleanness of public spaces. We talked about it during the previous ple. What you claim is neither with questions, nor with questions, nor with subsequent motions, nor with proposals for law, what you claim is not that public spaces are neutral, what they want is to restrict all forms of freedom. They don't get it, that if they have to legislate on flags it's because this flag no longer represents the interests of a majority? They don't get it, that if they still want to do it in the form of autonomous legislation, legality and power, if they want to do it out of the law and obligation is that there's something they've lost on the road? I will tell you what they have lost: the respect of a whole people, of their will, of their political and social initiative. Are you aware that in a reference to half of your interventions and your parliamentary initiatives, you would not have felt it? Are they aware that they resolve with politics the conflict they fuel, the speech of the por and of the fracture is dissatisfied between the sayings? You want to regulate everything you can't control. Let's see that all this is done to get old for the common interest, but it's been an hour long. What you claim is to return to an authoritarian regime has a democratic state. Do you know when he'll neutralize it in public space? Do you know when the diversity of public space and public institutions will not offend you until you have made a proposal for law? Do you know when the hole will stop having everything, reminding you of what kind of situation you have created by judicializing politics? It will be neutralized in the street and in the institutions when it is neutralized in the courts. Yes, when you've neutralized justice, you'll find neutrality in everything that they're so concerned about now. When justice is neutral, when we in court see no men and women full of reason testifying for crimes that have not been committed, we assure them that the hole will disappear from the facades, from the balconies that they so offend, from the public and also from the privatives, that the public space will breathe again with normality. As long as you haven't normalized the lives of our exiled and engaged companies and their families, there's going to be a lot of trouble. I'm getting ahead of them. There's going to be a hole and what the Catalan society decides it has to be. Let's let people express themselves on the street where they're worried. What is the use of a clean, creative and lifeless space? What is the use of a self-contained space that does not represent anyone? It's no use to us for nothing. Talk about flags. I have found that the bill proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party wants to legislate on Spanish flags in Catalonia. Do you know why the Spanish flags disappear? Because when you join the Spanish people, the German people we have in Spain have nothing to do with the flag, and if the flag represents this demophobic and authoritarian state, it means that it has ceased to be a flag that speaks of Catalan society. That's why these flags disappear. They also want to legislate on the stellate. They offend them, they offend them, they offend them, they offend them that the Spanish flag doesn't give you as much as you would like. Do you know what this is all about? It's not a resolution with a bill, like you, the People's Party and Citizens; it's a resolution with a ballot box, with a paper, with a question, and letting the people of this country vote and decide what they want for this country. Vagina to Congress, vagina to Madrid and claim a reference to the State. We're running out of all the possibilities that policy offers them before we get to make these offensive proposals, because some of us have come to institutions precisely to do this, to do politics, and we won't give up, even though we have a wall before. They do not call them those laws that they propose today, to understand that the freedom of expression of the citizens of this country is over their interests. Already the advances that the Republican Group will not support them in this proposal of the law, but they will have to allow me to make some comments to them. You ask for neutrality in the streets and in the institutions, and they speak of symbols and flags, but they do not speak of a very important thing: on the proposal of the PP I have found, if I am not wrong, eleven times the word 'flag', and eleven times the word 'flags', its plurality. Do you know what I did not find, either to Ciutadans' proposal or to the PP's proposal? Francoism, fascism. Yesterday it was forty-three years ago that the dictator died. There is still throughout the State... – yes, I do not put this face, Mr Carrizosa –, there is still throughout the Spanish French nomenclature, and in Barcelona there are still subtle remnants of the Francoism. I'm looking for them from the city. They want institutional neutrality and they want street neutrality: they're very concerned about the links, but I don't see the people who've been harmed by the historical memory of this country and the Spanish State. I recommend that you put your priorities in order with respect to neutrality and that you do not offend us with these proposals for law. When you want to remove from the public space the franchise, the fascism, the extreme right and the violence that you generate, let's talk about it again, while you find us at the front, down. [[Greetings.]] This night, on the night of November 20, according to the photojournalist, who has also rejected the threat of a whole state, this night, as said, have suffered attacks on his... – I make a list –: his d'Omnium, the CUP, the Ateneu de La secia de Manresa, the CUP de l'Hospitalet, the CUP de Gavà, the CUP de Mataró, the PDECAT, Terrassa en Comú, Esquerra, ANC de Terrassa... How we come to talk about respect, neutrality and condemnation of attacks and referrals, going through our support also to MP Alejandro Fernández. But let us not forget that every day we carry with us the violence of the extreme right to our street, and that we encourage you, therefore, also to ask the Government, interpellations, motions and proposals for law to respect, because this is also neutralized. And you still don't condemn the franchise. Today, the Senate. Finally, a poem by Gloria Fuertes, which I think is very suitable for the situation we are living in: "When I learned that the dictator/ died of yellow fever/ I could only say: beautiful color! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.171.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it's the turn of Congresswoman Anna Geli.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.172.0	President.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the first point, the guarantee of neutrality in public space, contradicts meanings, because it cannot be neutral and do politics at the same time. The natural place of politics is precisely in public space, on the street. It's the place for anonymity of the claim and protest, it's now, it's on the street where the people debate, question, it's manifest and, if you like, it also sizes autovies, reelers, to protest against what they believe, the abuses, the injustices of those who handle, remain of the political color that follows. On the street is the sobriety of freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of demonstration. Only in countries where there is no democracy have they wanted to eliminate any trace of protest to public space and institutions, and not to guarantee its neutrality, but to stage a false consensus and support to the authority or government. It is also worth saying that, if the organs formed by representatives of the popular will so agree, they can show public political positions. And, in fact, there are some examples of this; for example, in relation to ETA's adtempts, in relation to the Eastern War, for which it does the rebuff of racism, the feminist struggle, the LGTBI collection, etc. It is true that these public manifestations cannot be, or cannot be, equally not shared, for the cent_per_cent of Catalans and spiders. But they must count on the majority support of the agreements in the municipal plenary or in the same Parliament, if that is the case. And, look, public administration workers also have the right to show religious and political symbolism while this does not interfere negatively with their work. For the regulation of the use of flags and symbols, both laws speak of the premise that official symbols are of all and all, but, in change, unofficial symbols are not of everyone. If so, do you think the official Spanish flag, for example, represents us all? In my case, I feel much more represented by the Aryan flag, which we certainly don't have here, but which is also official, in Catalonia. Laws insist on regular, two laws, the presence of official symbols, basically refer to flags in public space. It's a regulation that's already done, and so we won't go into the absurdity of regulating it twice. In any case, and speaking of symbols, if his intention is to give political meaning to a groceries to wipe him out of the streets and institutions, they are wrong. The groceries do not belong to Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra, the CUP, nor to democrats, sovereignists, do not belong to anyone. The big deal is not a consequence, and the consequence is the brutal repression of the Spanish State against the unjust imprisonment of social and political leaders who take more than a year to prison and exile. [[Greetings.]] Until all this political-judicial farce is over, the deep loops, in spite of them, will grow, grow and reproduce, until all this ignominious cause is over. That's right, if they want to take them out, please, don't throw them down, do it without a knife, without cover, without intimidating, and, if it can be, without violence. And we, and also, surely, the CDRs, patiently, we'll put them back in, if it's not too much trouble. Mirin, in language and in forms lies absolutely everything. Many times, in fact, almost every plenary, today, too, apart from the underprivileged Catalan institutions and our legitimate presidents, we have heard them say, about the CDRs, that they are separatist commands. Do you know how the IEC defines the command word? "Autonomous assault unit, generally paramilitary, prepared for long term special missions. Finally, don't you think that before you propose a law on the guarantees and neutrality of public space, you should see that you are not so violent with the language you use and guarantee public debate in pau? [[Greetings.]] Finally, and on sanctions, of which, as it is to be regulated and sanctioned, it is a very subjective debate. It is obvious that it is necessary to age for security and the guarantee of the rights of demonstration, expression and gathering in public space – it is obvious. Now, you don't have to criminalise what you're bad-tasting bratolades. But what is it and what is not punishable? Or, say it another way, what's and what's not cool? Is it nice to cremate a picture of the king? So, mirin, it is. And who reported it? The D.A.'s office. And who solved it? So the European Court of Human Rights, which condemned Spain for violating the freedom of expression of two Catalans. Is it nice to do a song of injury to the crown? So look, not Spain, but Belgium does. And who reported it? A Civil Guard union. Faixist greetings, which are tolerated in Spain, are criminal and unthinkable in Germany and Italy. Would you also sanction those who do these greetings and those who carry ties or banners of freedom political prisoners? They don't get along, do they? What is considered legal or not to be in public space at these times in Spain is difficult to consider, because it leaves power unpunished and, in change, it leaves the citizens helpless. The law bites, which should be repealed, has rejected the complaints of the same Amnesty International, because it considers arbitrary and subjective the sanctions imposed on the citizen. Follow the book You, shut up! , which just came out, from 2014 until 2016 there have been deu_mil minor demonstrations. Since 2016, there have been more than twenty thousand fines for a concept as subjective as, among comets, "the lack of respect and consideration of the agents of the authority, with complaints and economic sanctions as dramatic as making a like on Facebook, talking Catalan or because a journalist from Catalonia Radio tried to do his job and some agents of the authority prevented it. Finally, I wonder whether it is possible to do politics and, at the same time, to be neutral and indifferent to injustices. I don't know. For example, would you, on the day of gay liberation, not hold a flag from the arch of Sant Martí to the balcony? Neither Penjarian at the balcony a lilac against male violence? Wouldn't they hang a hole or a banner asking for the freedom of political prisoners? I guess not, according to this law they want to do, because in the background what you want to do is to drop this society into a skeptical tedi and close to preterite times that this chamber should be ashamed to remember. It began by regulating the dark place and ended by banning democracy. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.173.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, for a turn against three minutes for each subgroup and group, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, the deputy Andrea Levy. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's the turn against totality exams, Congresswoman, yes. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.174.0	Yeah... well, basically to say we're not surprised at his position. It was clear that what they wanted was to continue to impose their aesthetic ideology. I mean, when you go to the beach and you find yellow crosses, do you think those of us who don't think like you have freedom of expression or feel coerced? Are you thinking and empathizing when you do and are saying that there is neutrality in the institutions, that those Catalans who go to the councils or who go to the Catalan institutions that are full of banners of a concrete ideology represent us in equality and not that we feel intimidated? That is the real problem, which you are only thinking about what you represent, but as this parliamentary chamber shows, as the Catalan society shows, not in its part but in its totality, it is diverse, and what it would be about is that we find ourselves in public space... I do not say that independently every Catalan... Obviously, it can carry whatever it wants. We are talking about institutions, municipalities, which must guarantee equality for all, and freedom for all. That is where we demand neutrality and that is where you impose your totalitarianism, impose your will, impose your ideology. And yet I say to them: they will not win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.175.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, again, of Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.176.0	Thank you, President. As for the intervention of Esquerra Republicana, that you have come out comparing here the Francoist symbolology, of which here no one had spoken, with the yellow ties, I believe it already says everything. You guys... I don't know. [[Greetings.]] The association of ideas has done it you, I have not done it, that counts, that then do not say that is that Carrizosa..., I have not said anything, you have said it – you have said it. Ah, and another thing, look..., perfect, okay, eliminate if any Franco symbol. It's in the streets, in the buildings... actually. You are true that you have ruled in the city hall and in the Generalitat. Not us. Do your best, do your duty, have a law of historical memory and do it, that's it. What are you telling me, ma'am? [[Greetings.]] Look, let's see, here I think there's some..., some lack of..., some kind of conceptual error. You've talked about the official symbols, the flags. The official flags represent us all, and are distinguished from the party symbols, because the party symbols represent the supporters and the parties – the party symbols. The officers represent us all, so in a town hall you..., those of the CUP may not like the European flag, but is it true that it is there and it is the European flag and it is the official? He also represents you, gentlemen, because you are official flags. Finally, what I think is clear here is that with all the discussions that have been made by the amendments, one thing is clear: you do not want to talk about this issue, you do not want to resolve this conflict. You don't want to talk and make a deal. You want to impose, which is what you have been doing so far and that is exactly what you want to continue to do. So look, we, in view of this attitude of 'we want to continue imposing, we want to continue doing what is of everyone's, we want to take over from everyone's, for we, I can tell you, are going to continue to fight for the streets, for the squares, for the schools, for the institutions to be of everyone and not just a few. And that's what we're going to continue to do, return to all citizens what those who are invading everything with ties and party banners want to stay. That's what Citizens are going to do. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.177.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, in order to position themselves, the rest of the parliamentary groups will intervene, starting with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. Mr Ferran Pedret has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.178.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, Members, Members, I was about to start my intervention with what perhaps is the most famous appointment of Estanislau Figueras, who was president of the First Spanish Republic: however, taking into account the efforts made by the President of the Parliament of Catalonia to resume the debates of this chamber towards serenity, it seems to me that this perhaps would not be the best of the beginnings. I will start, in turn, with another quote, which is literal in a diary of sessions, says: "Lords of the People's Party, you bring us today a proposal for a law that we believe is unnecessary and surprising, sincerely. Perhaps those parliamentary forces that we have little quota would like to take advantage of these things for matters that really are to do politics and not partyism, as is often the case. I believe that the Spanish Constitution captures and reinforces all the values of our symbols at the moment; moreover, there is a flag law dating back to the year 81. Finally, we consider that it is not a necessary law and that this public space of the Congress of Deputies is precisely to debate bills that really interest all citizens and not only, Mrs Montserrat – forgive me for telling you – to do electoralism at some points. Who am I quoting? So who at that time was the spokesman for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group at the Congress, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas, in relation to a very pretended law proposal that the People's Party was bringing to the Congress of Deputies, just a few days ago, huh? And, in turn, today we have two, that of the People's Party, which is consistent with what they did at the Congress, and that of Ciutadans, which continues to be surprising, taking into account the view that they deserved the proposal of the People's Party law to the Congress of Deputies. In any case, look, it is curious that in a debate on two proposals for law no one – I believe that only the deputy of Junts for Catalonia – made reference to the concrete content of the two proposals for law. It's not surprising anymore. Because, look, we obviously have differences in the way we express ourselves, in all, in the forms and all, I believe, sometimes, in the background of the questions, the Members and Members who preceded me in the use of the word. But what's certain is that what they said to each other deserves a collective reflection, huh? I have had occasion to debate with Mr Matías Alonso, in the later plenary, about a motion following an inquiry referring to aspects, let us say, which they have to see with what we are also debating today: with the use of public space, with the use of public buildings, of their administrations for the display of certain symbols. I, on that occasion, in that debate – you have to remember Deputy Alonso, at least, I hope – said that this certainly deserved a more serene debate and reflection, with more time than it could produce with a young man. Clearly, the surprise is that immediately there is no space for a reflection where certain basic consensus can be established or restored to respect these questions, but a proposal for a resolution already appears directly. I have to tell you that we absolutely do not share that coming up with two proposals for law on this assumption is the best way to try to rebuild some basic consensus. That is to say, for reasons that I will comment on later, it seems to us that the texts that are proposed are not only surirs, but also counter-productive. But, in addition, I will tell you that we believe that in order to arrive at a hypothetical regulation on these issues, the first issue would be to establish basic consensus between the different political parties and, at last, surely between social actors that we are not currently in a position to produce. And you know that, the groups that propose these proposals of the law know that. They have come to do what they are doing today, to meet with a majority that they know – a majority of the parliament – that they knew that they would block these legislative proposals and be able to accuse... – as Mrs. Levy has already advanced and I thank her –, and to be able to accuse the Party of the Socialists of Catalonia and the Socialist and Unites Parliamentary Group to advance of all, traitors, fevers, to be paying mortgages, in other words, to put all the turns that they are calling, because they have come to this, they have not come to another thing. Why do you know the results of the past, huh? Clearly, it's quite a curious thing. You didn't talk about the texts, I understand, because they must have read them, obviously, before they presented them, and as they read them before they presented them, they must have added up to what point many of the things contained in them are barbaric. Look, I'll make a distinction: the text of the Popular Party, even though it contains some articles, especially the 2nd and the 5th, that raise all possible preventions, is much more moderate, while two-thirds of the text is devoted to the sanctioning regime, imagine's, let's say, the character of the law proposal that is made, but it is much more moderate than the text that Citizens propose. It is that with the text that Ciutadans proposes, concretely also articles 2 and 5... – I don't know what the law's proposal was inspired in which, but some transversal inspiration seems that there is, but, also in articles 2 and 5, clearly, with what they propose, I believe that you, Mr Carrizosa, should immediately call to the platform Spain Citizen and tell him to try to walk the bus to the Community of Madrid before someone comes to a regulation similar to the Community of Madrid. Because it's that you say that you can't use any type of party symbolism, of ideology, etc., in public space, but no type. It is that, miri, says – Article 5 of which you propose –: "In order to guarantee the constitutional principle regulated in Article 103, the Catalan public institutions shall ensure that the use of any banner, poster or element with message, announcement or communication of an eminently ideological or political nature is avoided in the public space or that they manifest themselves by their display and use of certain political options. Clearly, they make the exception, obviously, to election campaign periods. Home, I'd just miss it. But, in other words, their conception of the use of public space and ours differ absolutely. Mirin, from the outset, regulation on the symbols, exists: she quoted her spokesman to the Congress of Deputies; regulation on the neutrality of public administrations, exists: she is in the Constitution, she is in the State, she is in the Law of the bases of the local regime, she is in the text refus of the Municipal Law and the local regime of Catalonia. What is involved and what is involved is having a debate about which activities, which attitudes complement or do not complement these principles, and there are institutional mechanisms– you mentioned the Ombudsman, who has hired people who have complained, but there are other mechanisms – let's say, in court, administrative litigation or of other types, to make good these principles that must govern the performance of public powers. But no, you decide to legislate. And with the contents of the two proposals of the law, and especially with the citizens, what we have to say to you is that this is not the chamber and this is not the type of law with which you could legislate these things. Because what you do is set limits to people's freedom of expression in denial. We agree with you that administrations as such obviously do not have freedom of expression, if individuals in public administration, which you have also discussed often, even though on the occasion of the last motion they presented we were able to present a message, in which we were able to agree, which limited some negative effects that could have had that approval if it had occurred. But, of course, it is that, from the outset, Article 81 of the Constitution reserves the organic law the development of public rights and freedoms. And when the freedom of expression in public space is being questioned here, the exercise of certain fundamental rights, it seems to us that this should, as a minimum, be the subject of organic law. But I'll say more: there are certain public rights or public freedoms that are much better without the organic law than they are developed. And, in fact, to date, I think that with this legislator, the legislative successes at the Spanish level have done well, for example, not to make an organic law about the right to vacate, huh? Every time there has been an attempt on the part of the parliamentary right, the unions, of course, and the parties of the left, have firmly opposed it, because this fundamental right, this public freedom, is much better without an organic law that develops it. So, I'll say it more: the freedom of expression, in our opinion, is one of those that is much better without an organic law than it develops and limits, huh? , at our parer. I think that a formation that is claimed of liberal tradition should be able to share it, but in view of the text that you present, it seems to me that of the statutes, rather than to erase that reference to social democracy, maybe to erase also the reference to liberalism, because I do not find that I have just been quiet, eh? But, well, in any case, trying to be constructive, even if we don't share the way, let's say, in what he expressed, neither of Mr. Carrizosa nor yet Mrs. Levy, who devoted a good part of his intervention to attack and signify, huh? Precisely, practicing what you criticise, which is another paradox, isn't it? , of his intervention, but, although we do not share it, we believe that what is happening requires a reflection of the people who are at the forefront of the public administrations and the conjunction of the city of Catalonia. Because what can't be, understand me, we can't share it either, it's that the spokesman of the Republican Left, in this debate, has come out to say that the Spanish flags of the assemblies and of the Catalan institutions disappear because there is a whole town that rejects these symbols, right? We may hear that there are citizens and citizens in Catalonia who do not feel particularly identified with this, but there are some rules that must comply with the symbols. And I think that's good for everyone, governments that governments. And in any case, if you have majorities and follow the procedures that you have to follow to change the brand of coexistence, then you, then, let's say, will already agree on which symbols are displayed or not, in public institutions, but what you can't do, from the point of view of the way, is not complete what is already regulated. But what we can't make out of the way is to make regulations that end up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.179.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.180.0	... it's with the limitation – I just went on, Mr President – of public rights and freedoms of all, because, what you propose, it's not stellates and it's not links, it's rights and freedoms of all, including links, obviously. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.181.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.182.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. MPs and MPs, I would like to begin my intervention by making two small parentheses. The first, sending a greeting to the bus of Ciutadans, which today is occupying public space with party propaganda in Madrid [[applause]] And encourage him to follow it with complete freedom. And then a point, Mr. Carrizosa. We have not presented a report to the whole; but to present a report to the whole it does not cancel the debate, which is what we are doing. What cancels the debate is to block proposals to the Bureau of the Congress. [[Widow's remorse.]] Tell Mr. Rivera to point it at me. [[Greetings.]] These two proposals of law have to do with the battle of galls that we are living on the Spanish right between Mr. Rivera, Mr. Married and Mr. Abascal, to see who is being held by the Spanish prize of the year, which, as you all know, is being held by the FAES Foundation. And, in fact, Parliament's on us today to live the replica of this battle of galls. It's not even a first-division debate; we had this debate a few weeks ago in Congress and it was already rejected for most of the Congress. And, curiously, the only two parties that have used official symbolism as an electoral logo come here to demand that the unofficial symbols of the public space joint be removed so as not to make it a partisan. And why don't they claim that he's not a U.S. official symbolist? "In the public spaces of cities and towns, the use of unofficial, partisan and ideological symbols is being allowed. Of course, it has been allowed for forty years that ideological party symbols have been allowed in the streets, since freedom of expression, assembly and demonstration exists. And this motion, this bill that you present is a frontal attack on public rights and freedoms in this country. But we... we want to pick up the glove and come here and talk about the state of law, democracy and public freedom. That the spokesman of your party, Mrs. Inés Arrimadas, here displayed a flag of Spain saying that she is persecuted and we must remind her that the flag of Spain already presides over this plenary is a question of parliamentary patheticism. [[applause]] and instrumentalization of the official symbols that should be of all. But in case he's out of the right state. To talk about the state of law is not to talk about parliamentary patheticism, it is to talk about more important things, such as the presumption of innocence. You yourself, in this Parliament, in your questions to the Government, have again referred to the defense committees of the Republic as separatist commands. In fact, Mr. Rivera, in his famous tweet, said textually: "The arrest of the separatist commandos – two points – if we can stop the port would be brutal and with Mercadona we fuck everybody. Apostille – a candidate for the presidency of the government – is now ‘fucked' by her, referring to the accusation of two members of the CDRs for serious crimes of rebellion, seditiousness and terrorism. We see a candidate for the president of the government signing, skipping the presumption of innocence, to two citizens who have never had institutional responsibilities. But it's been two weeks since they absolved them. And what we hoped for from you is that it is publicly excused and stopped competing with the extreme right of this country to see who leaps further away from the presumption of innocence, who applies in his speech the criminal law of the enemy further away, and who continues to use a language more conducive to terrorism than to the parliamentary dispute. We were hoping today for an apology and not that he reiterated his attitude. And when we talk about public scrutiny, I wouldn't like to forget about the teachers of Sant Andreu de la Barca. I remind you of a pitiful tweet [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] of his presidential candidate: "The separatist teachers who publicly pointed out their children, the children of the Civil Guard in Catalonia, the prosecution investigates them for hate crimes, but the Government of Spain says that they will not open files. With cowardice, nationalism is never defeated. One day after this tweet, at school there were paintings pointing to us with names and surnames and giving them "separatist and Nazi rats". Of course, anyone who attacks citizens on foot with total impunity, while protecting as a vassal the powerful of this country, is not a brave one is a reactionary one. And who skips the presumption of innocence with citizens on foot while blocking Congress, commissions of inquiry to the Royal House, does not defend the rule of law, defends the impunity of the powerful and the criminal law of the enemy against dissidents. [[Greetings.]] Fixi's the one who gave his spokesman to the Congress when a few weeks ago is debating this to the Congress, he gave to the People's Party: "Where were you when the national anthem was being played or when the king was being played in football matches? And the truth is that you today do not come to defend the freedom of expression in Catalonia, or just to defend something that we share, that is that the plurality of positions in Catalonia can be expressed in equal conditions. You came here to demand, as you did to the Congress, that a state of exception be decreed to Catalonia and that there be no more public or institutional demonstration than the defence of the king, of his electoral propaganda by the streets and of his acts of public assemblage. Spain's problem is not Vox. The problem with Spain is that you, Vox, and the People's Party, repeat as a mantra the same speech; the King's speech calling to make Catalonia his 23-F and the exceptional democratic a country proposal. Enemies of social justice, institutional regeneration, national recognition of Catalonia and public freedoms are the same and come with the same country project. PSC companies, today the repte is not to take them out, they're already out of the government. That's why they're proposing such unfortunate laws, and that's why they're radicalizing their competing positions for the extreme right. Probably last year we've been experiencing all very difficult and tense situations, but I'm very proud of the fact that today they're with us defending the whole issue and not making themselves with Mr. Albiol and the 155-year-old hooligans. I think we're clear today that the path of freedom we have to go together and bravely, and that there's no way out of the middle. I believe that the constant assignment to the government of President Sánchez shows that there is no way from the mig to Spain. Today the challenge is to lead a new stage, to remain still is to give them the political initiative they are competent for the extreme right. Today's challenge is to cooperate to lead a new country project. The motion of censure succeeded in ensuring that the majority of Catalan parties and the majority of parties conforming to the Catalonian Parliament support the government of Pedro Sánchez. But it's a weak majority, it's a majority that's based on rebuilding the People's Party. I think today we're still brave enough to turn a majority of the rebroadcast into a new country project. And I don't think that's where the PSC companies can profile themselves. I think it's a good thing you told the state government to skip the state council's opinion to bring this Parliament back to the constitutional court to repudiate the king and reaffirm its commitment to Republican values and the abolition of the monarchy as the state model was a mistake. And I would like you to take as much as possible to consider correcting it. We have seen the block of the 155th week, yes, the week that the democratic exception is extended to Catalonia and that it is dissolved and that its institutions are intervened, and I have not seen any member of the Government take them to the Constitutional Court to attack an institution that is also protected and built for the Constitution. It is important to assume that the government of Pedro Sánchez sits on a republican majority, which has the right to express itself and to cooperate to build a new country project. Government companies and PSC companies, cooperating is not putting right to compete with freedoms. It is making a common front to open a new stage of rights and freedoms. It is to see in the current majorities of the Congress the possibility of being a majority leader, not a majority of blockage, nor a minority of resistance. In front of the fratricidal drift of the monarchist right, the repte is not to make of republicanism a point of arrival, a point of relegation identity, but to make it a point of departure to jointly open a new stage. In fact, republicanism before the constant threat of those who seek to force a stage of detail of rights and freedoms, the possibility itself to win a new stage for the conjunction of Catalonia and Spain. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.183.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.184.0	Thank you, President. Well, public space is not neutral, nor has it ever been, nor will it ever be. It is a space of dispute, struggle, languages and symbols in which social classes are confronted... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.185.0	Quiet, and please. Excuse me, Congressman, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.186.0	Thank you, President. In what they compare social classes, in what the powerful and dispossessed struggle to perpetuate or transform the relations of power and inequality. Public space, and even all communication and culture are areas of social and political struggle in which hegemony is at stake in language, mediating how we interpret life and interpret ourselves in it as subjects. By mediating those of us who are alienating by taking on inequality, oppression and precariousness or by mediating which we reveal and fight to change the rules of the game. Public institutions are also part of this territory of struggle and dispute, they are not neutral but they are also a battlefield of languages, accounts and symbols both of the oppressor and of emancipation. Neutrality can only be the result of two phenomena: repression, dictatorship or total hegemony of a language and a dominant symbolism about the dissenting remnant. And this is the motivation for these proposals of law: suppress symbolic dissent, today disobeying and emancipating, and impose – impose – the hegemony of language of the 78th rule. The 78th rule, a pact in crisis for its anti-democratic and anti-social nature, as has been shown to be enough and particularly pale since September 20th, 17th and especially on the days of October 1st and October 28th, 17th, but still more, and above all, with the existence of political prisoners and prisoners and exiles and exiles. Therefore, the members of the People's Party and of Ciutadans, their symbols in Catalonia, are in crisis, and we symbols representing democracy and freedom today to replace them, to replace them, and they will not be able to avoid it with their proposals of law advocates of the regime, they will not be able to mortify or manipulate the dignity that day by day runs our streets. Special mention deserves the monarchy, one of the most unpopular, corrupt and delegitimized institutions in the regime. Do you want her to hold on to the law, too? Sooner or later it will fall, have full security, with its inclusive symbols, and this removal process has already begun. You know what? They remind us of those pathetic nobles who remained perplexed, with their harnesses and raccoons, before the revolution that dispelled the symbols of the ancient rule and replaced them for the us who expressed the new republican stage. And it's a matter of time. And for now, the public space and its institutions will be a land of struggle between the ancient 78's and the new democratic and self-determination project that grows in our country. And finally, if you want consensus, I propose a law against the Feixist symbols, against the Nazi symbols, against the monarchical, sexist and racist symbols. Maybe they'll find us here. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.187.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the debate, and in accordance with Rule 116.5 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall now proceed to the separate vote of the two items in totality; that is to say, we shall vote separately on the two items in two legislative proposals. Before we start voting, I remember two things. The first one, which must be voted on from its own side; therefore, it is not possible to vote on any other one that does not follow that of each of the Members and Members. This is a general warning, but let me remind you now that we are going to vote. And the second view was that they wanted to do them: they would see in their pants, when the result came, that they would already automatically add the votes delegated or those of those Members who have appointed another Member to exercise their parliamentary rights. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.188.0	For two things, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.189.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.190.0	...one for contradictions and one for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.191.0	For contradictions I give you the word, not for allusions, Mr. Carrizosa, because they have all sided with everyone and it is normal in a debate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.192.0	They alluded to me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.193.0	... all the groups personally and directly greeted each other. Therefore, it seems to me that there are no allusions. If you want, for the sake of contradiction, say what you seem to him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.194.0	By contradictions, then, to say that Mr Pedret has read an article of the law and has read it partially, implying that any manifestation of a political nature, any political message on the streets, was prohibited. Obviously, this is not so, and what is happening is what is happening, as they also said, for forty years, in democracy, which is that, if a party intends to flood with yellow plastics PSC, PSC, PSC a city, it will be able to do so, but it will have to ask for and get administrative permission, which is not currently being done with yellow bonds and is what, no more or less, we ask: to obtain this permission that has always had to be obtained to flood the streets of party advertising. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.195.0	All right. Let us proceed, as we have said, to the vote. I have already told you that we would vote first on the first question of totality, that is, the one that has been presented around the Law Proposal on the use of symbols to institutions and the neutrality of public spaces, that is, the one presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote on the issue begins at the end of the day. I remind you that the vote in favour is in favour of the whole thing, and against the whole thing, obviously. The vote begins. The total vote was adopted by 88 votes to 40, with no abstentions. Therefore, this initiative remains rejected. Let us now turn to the vote of the second debate on totality, that is, the one referring to the proposed law on the guarantee of institutional neutrality in public space and in the Catalan public institutions, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The vote begins. This total was approved by 89 votes to 40, with no abstentions. Therefore, this initiative remains rejected. [[Proposition of the law of democratic memory of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00025/12]] We pass now to the next point of the order of the day, which is the point seven..., forgive me, the point eight – the set has been substantiated jointly with the earthquake – and, therefore, we go to the debate on the proposal for a democratic law of Catalonia, presented by the Socialist and Unites-Progress Parliamentary Group. In order to present it, Mr Ferran Pedret has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.196.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillor, Councillors, Members and Deputies, and let me begin by welcoming the memorialist and victim associations of the Francoism that are found today among us, accompanying us, as well as all the people who may be following this debate. Look, there has been a multitude of historians or historians, people dedicated to research who have dealt with one of the conflicts that perhaps epitomizes better the 20th century European, which was, certainly, prelude to a tragedy still greater, as was the Second World War, which is the Spanish Civil War, isn't it? On the period of the Second Spanish Republic, on the causes that are going to take us to the Civil War, it has been written a lot. The truth is that, despite this, there is considerable effort to make a certain historical revisionism about what happened in the times immediately prior to the Civil War, and also about what it meant and the magnitude of the repression of the Franco dictatorship, characterized by a barrier, let us say, of a fetishist ideology and of a national Catholicism of a kind. And I believe that modern societies that have suffered as heavy, as deep, as traumatic conflicts as those that have suffered from Spain's conjunction with the Civil War have an obligation to always maintain the effort to give out to these principles that must inform the performance of the public powers in developing their public policies of memory, which are the principles of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. And I make a special point in this giving principles of guarantees of non-repetition, because precisely the combination of memory policies, the fact of explaining, let us say, based on the reason and scientific knowledge well founded historiográfically of what happened..., it is in this permanent effort that there is one of the best guarantees of non-repetition, a task of prevention that memory policies have to do constantly. And I think that at the moment, with the rise of totalizing ideologies, and especially of extreme right-wing ideologies, national populists, xenophobics, etcetera, resu d'Europe – and here too, huh? With the resurgence, whether it reacts to the process or by causes, let's say, endogenouss–, it is worth following a memory effort of what the years of power of these ideas have meant, follow in Spain, continue in other European countries, but we have a special obligation to remember what happened to Catalonia and to the conjunct of Spain. That was an absolutely bloody and terrible conflict, in which it is obvious that it cannot be established, let us say, a purely qualitative or quantitative weighting between the evils inflicted on the part of the uncontrolled elements on the republican guard with which it was a systematic policy of repression and eradication of the dissent in the territories that the insurrection army conquered and later, at the length of the almost forty years of the French dictatorship. No, we can't establish, let's say, an equidistance between the two, but we need to recognize that both of them existed and we need to apply repair policies in both cases. In any case, as is evident, Francoism left a wide range of modes and forms of repression of cultural, political and trade union dissent, with feminist movement, with the themes of Catalan language, with the repression of Masonic logics..., go, with so many and so many..., obviously, with the questions, let us say, that they are concerned with sexual freedom... There are so many and so many, the forms, so many, the concrete aspects of the daily life of each person who lived under this regime, which are obviously influenced by the repression of the Francoism, that the catholics of victims are extended, and also the types. They have approached, from the beginning of the recovery of democratic institutions, different public policies tending to the repair of victims; in some cases, above all, with very punctual regulations that tried to respond to situations, even from the economic point of view, very hasty, very urgent, haven't they? , with people who needed to be recognized some type of service for their years of service as public servants in the time of the Republic, continue as carbiners or military, continue as public servants of any other kind, and all a sequence of punctual dispositions that they had to see, for example, with the bailout of confiscations to political parties and unions, or so many others that were punctually made. Also in Catalonia; also in Catalonia there were public policies addressed to this, obviously, since the recovery of the Generality. So, let's say, the legislative approach, the way to approach it from the point of view of the development of laws, has been relatively late both in one case and in the other, eh? : with Law 52/2007 in the case of the Spanish sphere and, in the case of Catalonia, with Law 13/2007, of the Democratic Memorial, in the first term; then, with Law 10/2009, popularly known as "fues", even though it is said "about the location and identification of the disappeared persons during the Civil War and the dictatorship, and finally, with Law 11/2017 of 4 July, of legal reparation of the victims of the Francoism. All of them are very important, of special significance; all of them, in their own time, were important, and all of them were, of course, necessary. What happens is that, necessarily, because of the way in which they are planted, because of their natural own and the object of which they want to occupy, they were necessarily fragmentary and they are producing that we now have a certain legal dispersion around the themes of historical memory and, therefore, a lack of connection between the different dispositions of respect. Therefore, our parliamentary group understood that, when we arrived at this point, it was necessary to recast these legal texts, to equip them..., it is to say, in the background, to equip us with a law which presupposes a complete and coherent regulation of the aspects relating to democratic memory, and not only to carry out this refutation operation, but also, to say it colloquially, to fill the blanks with all those aspects, all those objective areas which might not have been covered with legal provisions, but also to say that they had sometimes been covered by public policies or, quite simply, they had not been addressed. We have seen, and I have to say that with satisfaction, that we agree on this approach to what is done since the Department of Justice, which has announced and has already advanced a bill that goes, for which we have been able to read of the intentions, exactly in the same sense or in the same orientation. And, therefore, we welcome the existence of various initiatives in this sense and we appreciate the willingness of both the department and the parliamentary groups of the majority, which, while initially presenting, and I assume that, as a minimum precaution, a statement to the totality, they withdrew it after having had a fluid communication respect the possibility of working together both texts and seeking to count on a democratic memory law of Catalonia that counted on the widest support, with the broadest consent in this chamber, which I believe is the best way to make both historical memory laws and public policies in the matter of historical memory, which is the most consensual and shared possible. As, certainly – against all prognostic, let's say, taking into account the political tensions of the moment and polarization – we have been iron caps, all right at the end of the previous legislature, with the law that I have just cited of legal reparation of victims of the franchise. This should be a good example of how far we can agree on questions like these. We therefore believe that it is necessary to take the step that is being asked to be given today, which this Parliament has taken to this legislative initiative of our parliamentary group. And we would like to comment, although briefly, on some of the general features and novelties of the initiative we are presenting. From the outset, the proposed law that we submit to debate fully integrates the three Catalan laws into the subject of democratic memory all just with the minimum adjustments necessary to give coherence to the text, as well as a regulation in a legal text of some political decisions that were already on the way, such as the DNA bank or the genetic identification program. And it also contemplates some novelties: in some cases, novelty in the form of treatment, in others, novelty in the sense of strictness. And, for example, it contains a wide range of measures and actions directed at victims: it is listed in Article 5 of the Law the rights of victims in the framework of the principles of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition; it is catalogued..., without establishing typologies between them, in the sense of considering that there are victims who follow it in different degrees, but only in order to be able to address the specificities of each type of victim, given the specificities of each mode or type of repression, therefore, there is a wide range of situations of victims or victims. And, for example, as a novelty, it is also considered to be victims of confiscations of paper money and other fiduciary titles, but also the victims of exile, internments in concentration camps and Nazi exterminations, etc. A lot of others, too, huh? But there's no material time to list them all. It commends the creation of a general hundred victims, precisely with this mentality, from which would integrate the missing persons who already existed by virtue of the 2009 law, but with the intention of relieving the pool of victims and not just victims of enforced disappearance. The process of localization, exhumation and identification of victims, which must be initiated by the Generality, is speeded up, but also, at times, a greater capacity of initiative is given to victims' families – therefore, also victims of repression – to private entities or associations dedicated to historical memory or historical research, as well as to universities, centres and search groups in this area to initiate localization, exhumation and identification activities. There are protocols in place for security forces and bodies, so that the possible commission of crimes in the framework of which we are talking is investigated, as is also required of the competent department that..., it is authorized, go, that it may ask the judicial service for the prosecution of cases or that it is a person in existence in the pursuit of such possible crimes. As the Administration is asked to inform, help and assist victims in the exercise of their rights, which we do not deny is done, but it gives legal status to this obligation. The protection of documentation relating to democratic memory regarding its deterioration, substraction, destruction or concealment is also improved. It reinforces the right of access to the archive and documents. It recognizes the memory movement, creates a register of memory associations and victims, and provides for measures to promote the activity of memory entities, which are also sought to give more view in the Democratic Memorial. It expands the range of places and itineraries of democratic memory, as well as the places of detention, concentration camps and camps of groups of forced workers. It creates a hundred buildings, works and jobs carried out through forced labor. It reinforces and clarifies the regulation on symbols and vestiges contrary to democratic memory. It is provided that public administrations in the field of their competences must prevent and prevent the performance of public acts which involve discrediting, undermining or humiliating victims, exalting the military rebellion or Francoism or honouring or granting distinctions to the physical or legal persons who have given them support. It is expected that there will be no public aid and subsidies to physical and legal persons who have been sanctioned for acts contrary to the law of democratic memory, and in this same line, a sanctioning regime is provided for to strengthen the effectiveness of the law's provisions. It reinforces and expands the scope of the Democratic Memorial in coherence with the wider scope of democratic memory regulation that the law contains. Also the proposal that fem contains specific regulation for cases of forced disappearance of infants and infants. And finally, a commission of truth is created in the area of Catalonia with the will that it collaborates with other commissions that are created in different autonomous areas and also with what can be created in the area of the state, since, precisely now, there are various legislative initiatives to the General Courts that intend to reform Law 52/2007, and that provide for many of these questions that we are talking about. In short, the experts in the peaceful resolution of conflicts say that a society triga so many years in being able to overcome the trauma they are facing as the years it lasted. If we are aware that between the Civil War and the duration of the dictatorship we are talking about approximately forty years, despite the efforts that have been made so far, according to these experts in the peaceful resolution of conflicts, it is now that we can begin to be on condition of closing down the wounds. Certainly, it will always be too late for a lot of people who will not have seen it; it will always be too late for a lot of people who have not been able to recover the remains of their loved ones, but I believe that they are now giving political and social conditions, of social consensus so that we can approach in an integral, definitive way – and with the will that it is a shared policy – the policies of democratic memory around the period of the Civil War and the dictatorship. So I hope that we have the opportunity to debate it in your parliamentary office and that we can finally count on a consensus text. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.197.0	Thank you, Congressman. The fact is, as the Member has just commented, that the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of the Republic have withdrawn the whole issue that they had presented together. Therefore, we are now opening a turn of intervention by parliamentary groups to express the position of two minutes for each group. Initially, starting with the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Member of Parliament Matías Alonso has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.198.0	Thank you, President. President, Counsellor, Members and Members of Parliament, today the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress is looking back at the past, today his gaze is again looking back at what has probably been the blackest period of contemporary history, a period of the history of Spain that its main protagonists mostly made a commendable effort to overcome at the length of the transition to democracy, at the length of the transition period to the social and democratic state of law, of which all Spaniards wanted to give themselves at the end of 1978 with the approval of the Constitution, all just now will do for forty years. Aviat, in a few days we'll have another occasion to celebrate. It is true that many fellow countrymen have been victims, who have suffered the consequences of this black period of our history. The consequences of the Civil War and the dictatorship have affected in a concrete way many, many fellow countrymen. They, the fallen to fratricidal war, the murdered to the rear, the reprisals, the persecuted, the unjustly condemned, the exiles, the families and the companions are the victims of this black period and they must dignify and, with all we can, repair. In fact, if we look at the consequences of the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship perfectly enough, they were affected by the whole Spanish society, a nation that was hardly affected by the calamities of the war, with a post-war period in which much of the population lacked the essence for a dignified life, in which a good part of the talent was in exile and which did not live the long night of the dictatorship with the year of justice and freedom in order to be able to renege on their ashes. The collective pain of the Spanish society, of the millions of Spaniards who never – ever – filled with the totalitarianism of the Franco regime, found the path of liberation longed for four decades in the transition to democracy. During the Transition, the Spaniards who had experienced in the first person the rigors, the harshness of the dictatorship showed a firm willingness to look forward without denying the past, but with the conviction that the path of reconciliation went through the recovery of democracy, the establishment of democratic values, with the gaze fixed on a future that now, forty years later, we can say that it has become the longest and most fruitful period of contemporary Spain. With the gaze nailed to the future, but without forgetting the past. This has been the expert of the Transition and the expert of the legislator, culminating until now in the field of the State with Law 52/2007, of 26 December, for which it is recognized and extended right and established measures in favor of those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship, which we know as "the law of historical memory. A law promoted by the socialist government of Mr. José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero. Allow me to express the words of the Vice-President of the Government of Spain, Mrs María Teresa Fernández de la Vega, who, in the debate on the totality of the law of historical memory, on 14 December 2006, said: "Our obligation as representatives of the people is to guarantee equal rights between Spaniards, to continue to strengthen harmony in justice, to continue deepening equality and solidarity. It is a debt we have contracted with all the victims, but it is also a debt to future generations. With the recognition and deepening of the rights of victims, we enrich our legacy of harmony, justice and freedom. Law 52/2007 is, and must continue to be, the reference for the recognition of the rights of victims of the Civil War and Francoism, and it is, in the sense of doubt, the best expression of the democratic compromise of all Spaniards in order to dignify and maintain the democratic memory, to inculcate in the collective consciousness of our society the rebuff of totalitarianism as a better guarantee of a peaceful coexistence, freedom and equality. The law of historical memory, precisely promoted by the Socialist Party, for the group's graduation from this law proposal, is the best guarantee and the referent to safeguard the democratic memory of all Spain and, therefore, Catalonia. If the Socialists and Forward Units Parliamentary Group did not believe so, it might have to push for the modification and improvement of the Law 52/2007 at the Congress of Deputies. Because if we are talking about opportunity, this proposal for law presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Forward Units, at these times, with the situation that is experienced in Catalonia, is entirely inappropriate. First of all, so that we can give time to the legislation we pass in this Parliament so that it can meet the objectives set by this legislative power, which in no case can leave a joint visit. Congressman Pedret has said that, just now, this Parliament has approved unanimously, that is, with the support of all groups, the last of the autonomous laws in this matter, the Law 11/2017 of 4 July, on the legal reparation of the victims of the franchise. Today, without consent, or only with the consent of the Government and unilaterally or bilaterally, they want to repeal it. Second, because the most sensible procedure for rationalising legislation is in the hands of the Government of the Generality. The Government of the Generality has the way of the legislative decree and seems to be preparing, moreover, a bill in this sense to normalize all the autonomous norms that they have to see with this matter. Third, because we must keep our gaze fixed in the future, following the passes of those who promoted and lived the Transition, and who came, neither more nor less, than to suffer in the first person, in their own flesh, the devastating effect of the fratricidal war, of the systemic violation of the more elementary human and civil rights and of the absolute lack of freedom. We don't want to go on looking indefinitely in the past, we want to have an objective of the future. We do not want to neglect the experience of the Transition and of the men and women who made it possible, we do not deny this essential period, nor do we forget the clear will of reconciliation and concord expressed by the joint venture of the Spanish society just forty years ago. This law proposal goes into this Ple out of turn, and it does so because it is the interest not only of the Socialist Group, but also of the two groups that support the Government of the Generality, the government of Mr. Torra, and it has been seen with the withdrawal of the two items to the totality. I'm very sorry. Not because we can't debate any law in matters where we have competition in this Parliament; we are sorry because we have the conviction that the debate on this bill's proposal is, first of all, a distraction maneuver that wants to divert the attention of the citizens in Catalonia from what is, today, essential: the governance of the friends' club of Mr Puigdemont and the left-hand mangered with the most corrupt right in this country, and the persistence of the groups that are gathering for democracy. They can laugh, but that's it, President. I believe that this proposal of law, this debate today in this Ple forms part of a strategy of the parent house of the PSC, the PSOE, Mr. Pedro Sánchez. The "sanchism" has a strategy that passes to try to satisfy, from the government of Spain, those who want to defuse Spain. The strategy of "sanchism wants to spare the lack of project and the inability to govern the tenant of the Moncloa, with an extreme parliamentary weakness and with a total dependence on separatists and populists. You're paying for a new scrap. We are convinced that the separatism that governs us will take advantage of this oxygen cane, this new driver to the duck that today fills the PSC to start the cat and continue quietly, with the sole opposition of Ciutadans, challenging democracy. In the past few weeks it has the effect that you, with the view of the Government of Spain, following the strategy of "sanchism, are more to whitewash democracy than to demand the Government of the Generality that governments, and what you do for all Catalans. I know hard, I know very hard...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.199.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.200.0	...but someone had to say it. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.201.0	Thank you, Congressman. Correspond now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the return to Mr Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.202.0	Thank you, President. President of the Generality, Councillor of Justice, Members and Members, I want to start with a political fact that is going on this late, that I do not know if the Members and Members have understood it – I think so – and I do not even know if the communication means too. It turns out that at the previous point, and at this point that we're dealing with, a republican majority is actually acting. A majority who took off, a few months ago, Mariano Rajoy of the Moncloa and many of us wished that we appeared clearly in the Parliament of Catalonia. That I don't know if there has been the summit of the dialogue convened by President Torra, who went on to do his job; but, obviously, today we have seen that when they want to spread the rights and freedoms of public space, it turns out that a very good Republican majority. We have just seen it in the previous vote: two thirds of the Catalonian Parliament. And it turns out that now, that we have to talk about memory, this has to be a point of finding Republicans and Republicans, because those who deny memory have already listened to them a few minutes ago from the Faristol, and then we will listen – and I don't know if there will be any news – what the People's Party is thinking about historical memory. Therefore, yes, we republicans and republicans have to walk, and if we agree on the rights and freedoms and we agree on the historical memory, President Torra, we already have a stopover, we already have an engulfment of this difficult and long scale for which we must go forward. Therefore, we agree. I want to read, briefly, only a small part of an article from the Statute of Catalonia, because what we are doing here has a mandate: it has a constitutional mandate, it has a statutory mandate and it has a moral mandate; it has a moral mandate from the men and women who preceded us, from our peers, from our opinions and opinions, that many of them left their lives because the Parliament of Catalonia could, at some point, discuss and approve a law of historical memory that they put to their place in history, because some of them, friends and friends, think that memory is not important, yet we do not have their bones. They're still in town, and we don't know where they are. And we want, too, to remember them, as I'm sure every son of a father and son of a mother would want to remember his forefathers that he left behind. So we're here for them, too. And tell us the State that the Generality has to age because the historical memory is converted into a permanent symbol of tolerance, of the dignity of democratic values, of the revival of totalitarianism and of the recognition of all people who have suffered persecution because of their personal, ideological and conscious choices. Therefore, yes, we are also developing our Statute. And I want to thank the Socialist Party of Catalonia that introduced this law, because I think it's an important initiative. And I want to thank, too, the Junts parliamentary groups for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group for having withdrawn the speech to totality, because it's easier to find us this way. And I want to thank the government that the first initiative that the councillor presented, when she took possession, was the announcement of an integral law of democratic memory, which is currently being processed and that we have the memory of her preliminary draft law on the way. Therefore, all this has to be appreciated, because it means that, of different cases and sure that in other issues of controversial and different positions, on this topic we do know how to find a point of finding, a point that will make us better as the country and be better as society. Yes, at the time of the tripartite, we were pioneers. Let's remember: the Law of the Democratic Memorial, first, and the Law of pits, then. Therefore, two initiatives when in the Spanish State there was none, yet, that you have legislated on democratic memory. And yes, they were also pioneers of the last legislature, a law, the law of legal reparation of the victims of the Francoism, the first institution of the Spanish State that banned, which condemned, that annulled the judgments of the Francoism. And, therefore, yes, Catalonia has been a pioneer and must again be with this integral law that we all have to do. And the PSC will make its contribution from its law, too. It is a compromise of our electoral program and obviously we have always been an absolutely sensitive formation in memory themes. And it's a process we're all invited to. I am delighted to listen to the proposals of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group on the subject of historical memory, and I am also very interested in listening to all the proposals of the People's Party on this subject. So, obviously, we're headed this way. I want to put this in value, that on September 12th we already have a preliminary memory of what will be the future integral law of democratic memory. Therefore, we have to go to a single question: a parliamentary question that makes this law – the law that the government will bring forward – work with these texts and that in this legislature we do or do end up with an integral law of democratic memory, law... – and I will not refer to the text that socialist companies propose, because there are many fears that we clearly agree –, law that must be expanded – that must be extended – in many, and all, what is the law of memory, law of memory that we also gave support to the 2007 Congress of Deputies at the time Zapatero. A law that is already historical in the sense that it is so many years old, and in the themes of memory and in the themes of democratic deepening has passed so many things that we need a law that is broader, more ambitious, that really backslides, that at that time they were only timidly raised, such as, for example, the stolen babies; – a regrettable fact; we are talking about dozens of thousands of children stolen in a whole historical period– ; that you are raising the theme of the guerrillas – Catalan guerrillas and guerrillas who fought against the fetishist dictatorship and that at this time they are not recognized – ; obviously, people who were repressed from all over the world, who were repressed for various reasons and from various manners here in Catalonia, and also from the memories of the communists, and also from the finals of the Nazis, so that they are repressed, so that they have been repressed for various reasons and so far from the past. All this is necessary. Just like the wrestlers of the sixties, the seventies, and the eighties. How many union leaders, who were still vertical unions, were already struggling for social and labor conditions, who lost their jobs, who were repressed, who were tortured, even some left their lives. A part of our little-remembered history, the sixties, the seventies and eighty-eighties: people who directly contributed to the democratic freedoms of which we today enjoy; people who are dying, friends and friends, and who have not yet had in their peoples a recognizance of the historical struggle that they captivated at the time. In the Baix Llobregat, in the West Valley, in the industrial areas of Catalonia thousands and thousands of men and women who did so much to build this country as the deputies and deputies who were sitting here in the first Parliament of Catalonia. Yes, this is also his memory, and this must be an important arrival. I'm done. You might think you shouldn't look in the past. Yes, you have to look at the past so you don't forget it, because you already know that whoever forgets the past has a tendency to repeat it. And those who say that the past isn't normally important in this past understand it and understand it. I want to remind you that we have to connect – and I ask you especially to the Group of the People's Party and the Ciutadans Group – with what the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations says, which obviously does not do politics from here; he gives opinions from this institution. That we also have to do with the United Nations Human Rights Council and the Forced or Involuntary Disappearances Working Group, and that we also have to do with the different reports of the Council of Europe, which remind us that during the Franco dictatorship, crimes of humanity and war crimes were eaten, that I can assure them that the best way to obliterate them is to judge them and repair them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.203.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Call. Forward. The word has the Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.204.0	Thank you, President. We wanted to begin our intervention by conveying our solidarity to two madrilenian women who yesterday were assaulted by the mere fact of showing, of displaying signs on which I posed: "Out of the fascists of our neighborhoods. Legal fascism, national shame. All a hug, comrades! [[Greetings.]] To talk about the 20-N democratic memory is to see how there are still institutions – and we're talking about administrations – that allow for the approval of the franchise. And where the victims, their families, their comrades, their companions today have not rejected an integral answer: truth, reparation, justice and guarantee of no repetition. In a very quick way: half a million deaths or deaths – 150,000 in Catalonia – ; hundreds of thousands of war councils – more than 63,000 in Catalonia – ; drawings of thousands of executions, in false trials or arising from false judicial proceedings – more than six thousand in the conjunction of the Catalan Countries –, and which meant four decades of repression, lack of rights and freedoms – and especially the national ones –, torture, persecution, concentration camps and forced labour. And, as always, the woman with double repression: in some cases, rapades, and in others, rapes. And to this there are administrations that do not only not give full answer, but that maintain certain privileges and recognition to the botxins and those who participated in the dictatorship. Martín Villa, who, even though he was a deputy, has a specific recognition of Spanish institutions; what will they be thinking and feeling the victims of March 3rd in Gasteiz? Billy the Child, who has an increase in his thought of 15 percent« for the special services provided, and those special services were hundreds of anti-Franchist tortures. Because when we plant, and the combination of historical memory, truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition, fundamentally and in the first place it is for those people who fought against the Francoism, who made it possible that the Franco Francoism did not continue and that they fought for rights and freedoms; that they advanced the legitimacy of their claims to the lawfulness of the Francoism; that they foreshadowed the fact of sacrificing the best years of their lives respect the struggles of collectivity and for a more just society. They must practically all or almost all of what we have enjoyed as rights and freedoms. That said, thank also, and more fundamentally, the proposal of law made by the Socialist Group. We will be used to advance in the democratic memory pocket and we will also be used to have more comprehensive and advanced legislation in the right. This does not mean that we agree on everything, but we must obviously appreciate the effort and the work that has been done since the Socialist Group. Also thank the Government for the fact that we have today a preliminary draft of the full democratic law of Catalonia. And to jointly appreciate the willingness of both the proponents and the government to withdraw the threat to the totality and that we can deal with in a single question two norms that are not in themselves contradictions and that can generate a lot of good debate. And we do not want to finish our intervention without referring to something that is happening or has happened during the last few hours in the Spanish Senate. Dated at 20-N, the People's Party has submitted a petition to the Spanish Historical Memory Law which expressly states that it is required to prohibit associations that exalt or glorify communism. The CUP - Creed They constitute from this Parliament and from this Faristol we say in a clear way that we are absolute exaltation and glorification of those communists who in the dark years of Francoism, in the worst years of Francoism, gave it all to conquer social and national rights of our people. Absolute glorification and absolute exaltation. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.205.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. There's a word from Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.206.0	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I am extremely surprised that you have decided to present this proposal at a time like the one we are currently living in. You in your proposal confuse memory with history and pretend to turn the first into the second. They confuse memory, which is nothing more than the testimony of the subjective memory of the people who lived together, who lived an event, with history, which is the concatenation of objective facts that happened at a certain time. With laws like this, like the one you are presenting to us today, what you seek is not to recover our history or to ensure that the victims are repaired. What they claim or what gives rise to the proposition that socialists present to us today is to equate the subjective valuations of memory with the objective facts of history. The democratic memory of Catalonia is not built on the basis of political agreements that we arrive in this chamber or the assessment made by the historians subsidized by the Generalitat and that they say that Columbus was Catalan or that the Halloween pumpkins come from Tarragona. The State..., politicians and rulers, ladies and gentlemen, we have absolutely nothing to say about what is or is not the truth. The Government of the Generalitat can never be a guarantor of the truth, because accepting it would be to assume that history is only a subjective fact, capable of changing at the dawn of the concrete ideology of the government of turn. Therefore, if the arguments are perfectly valid for any circumstance, in this case, in the case of Catalonia, we have an even worse aggravating. In Catalonia, independent generations are being created based on historical lies, manifested, disseminated by the Administration of the Generalitat of Catalonia; that is to which you, the socialists, to the Administration of the Generalitat which is dedicated to spreading lies about our history..., it is to which you intend to give guarantees, as guarantor of the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, the so-called 'historical memory' is not a matter of saying in a coup d'état who were the good and who were the bad. That is why from the People's Party we are going to vote against this proposal of law, which, I insist, does not seek to dignify history, but to equip the Generalitat to rewrite it, intends to equip the Generalitat to rewrite that history. However, if there is something that you, as members of the Socialist Party, can do for our history, something that you will, this time, count on the People's Party of Catalonia whenever you want, it would be to stop at once being convenient with the betrayals of independence that it is leading to Spain... Stop, the Socialists, at once, to justify each time they challenge us through the State, every time they consider us second-class citizens for feeling us Catalans and Spanish. Stop rewriting the recent history of Catalonia, perverting language, in the hope that citizens will not know that it has not been a coup to the state from the institutions. We are stealing democracy and coexistence, and you, the Socialist Party of Catalonia, are dedicating yourselves to whitening it, so that in the future the memory that you have built replaces the history that has been. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I have told you and I repeat: we cannot support this motion, because the truth, ladies and gentlemen, does not need decrees to reveal itself. The recovery of the dignity of Catalonia that the..., the recovery of the dignity that independence has destroyed, that does require the effort of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.207.0	Thank you, Mr Albiol. Next, also by positioning, is the return of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The word has the deputy Antoni Castellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.208.0	Thank you, President. Very honorable President of the Generalitat, also, Councillor of Culture, Councillor of Justicia..., Mr Albiol, yes, during the dictatorship, Francoism, yes there will be good and bad. There were botxins and there were victims. Just yesterday he did forty-three years of the dictator's death, forty-three years of death on the bed from which he led and perpetrated forty years of saving and cruel dictatorship. Forty years dark, with thousands, yes, they were botxins with thousands of murders, deportations, kidnappings, stolen babies, exiles. Forty years of violent persecution of ideology, culture, language, sexual orientation. Forty years of absolute annulment of human rights in the Spanish State. Yesterday it was forty-three years ago that the dictator died, that he died in Franco, but unfortunately the Franco did not die. And we have to regret that today, forty-three years after the dictator's death, we are experiencing a moment of repression that recalls those dark times: police violence against citizens who want to exercise the right to vote, intervention and censorship of media outlets, prohibition of public acts, activists and exiled artists, exiled politicians, two activists for arrest, seven politicians representing the people of Catalonia in prison, pre-trial arrest without justice, waiting for a judge in a judicial system that is directly heir to the Franco regime. An unjust, partial and political system. A political judge. Wait for the judgment of shame. No concord, no justice, no freedom, no reconciliation: unfortunately, forty-three years later, the Esperite of Francoism did not die in the Spanish State. And in this context today the Socialist Group presents us with a proposal for democratic memory, and this is an absolutely adjunct debate. The Republican Group presented a statement to the totality. How did you feel about presenting a statement to the totality? Logically, if at this time, then, in this country nothing has been done, or simply nothing has been done about the historical memory debate, I would not have felt that I had presented a statement to the whole. But precisely you know – Mr Pedret himself referred to it – and you are aware that at this time, therefore, a full law of democratic memory in Catalonia has been passed; in fact, a law that responds to the need to provide the country with a legislative instrument that backs up and orders all existing laws and regulations that are the result of different years of memory policies. And it is a bill of law that must definitely expand policies and actions to ensure the application of universal justice. This must be a bill of law that takes back the experience of all these years of government of the Generality and that, integrating the current laws, broadens the rights of victims of war and Francoism. A law that at these times is in the process of public participation of entities and citizens; that we believe is an essential element, the participation of all memorial associations and citizens at the particular level, in an integral law of this type. This is a spirit we understand not to retract the literal text of the proposed proposal. No, otherwise, the intervention or the will of the Socialist Group, or at least the one that is transmitted from the intervention made by Congressman Pedret. And that is why we withdraw the message to the totality, in the sense expressed by Deputy Nuet also: we believe that it is necessary and essential that in the debate of memory there is consensus, that we agree. And I think it's good news that we agree with the fact that in the process of the Government Bill, and together with the proposal that today, if all goes well, it will be approved, so we finish a joint debate and we can discuss together which is the best instrument, that what we all want in the end is to repair the victims of the Franco-Memory War, which must always be present, so that we never pass over those bad facts again. But we thought that in the end, that's why I said it, that we will have time to debate, but we are surprised at the text of the law – and I say again that not from the expression of today's speech of the intervention of Congressman Pedret, but if four points respect the text of the law's proposal – we are surprised that the analysis of the proposal in some way does not reverse the feeling of everything that has been done in these divided years or of Catalan legislation. They'll let me... that almost seems like a transposition of the Valencian law, that doesn't reverse the reality of what we've been working on so far in this country. If the will is of consensus – and I'm not sure – then this will be a reality that we can overcome perfectly. But, as an example, we are surprised that in the text of the law it is not entirely out of the Consorci Memorial dels Espais de la Batalla de l'Ebre, which was a pioneer in 2003, nor does it refer to the Consorci del Museu Memorial de l'Exili ; to the network of democratic memory space in Catalonia ; to the already existing program of opening of pits and genetic identification, a pioneer throughout the State, with 1,600 genetic tests, girls already from the unit of genetics of the Vall d'Hebron. Nor is it mentioned to the law – and they will say to me: "It is anecdote, but we believe it is not so anecdote – that it was approved in 2016, October 15 as the national day in record of the victims of the Civil War and the dictatorship. I, in change, the text proposed to celebrate this national day on May 31st. You don't agree with 15? Disconnection, of course not. I suppose there's nothing to see that coincides with the 15th murder of President Companies. The law doesn't make a lot of references to exile either. In fact, the current legislation, the current one, goes far beyond what the law lays down and is very shy, too, with deportations respect to Nazi concentration camps. Article 7 makes some reference, but at present there have been initiatives that go beyond, quite simply, the register of censuses. In 2017, the same Romeva Councillor installed the first plaque on the state wall at Mauthausen camp, and the idea – I know – of the Government is to follow this line. Therefore, what we are coming to say is that we probably..., and we are justifying why we presented a statement to the totality; so, it is not of substance, it is in substance, that we believe that, at these times, the draft law of the Government does not improvise, has a long term and a long recourse, but this is the result of the analysis of all the regulation that we have so far, the participation of the citizenry, and, logically, will be a good opportunity when the draft law of the Government enters this Parliament, together with the wording that they present today and that we will approve of the Socialist Group, to make a joint pose and, therefore, to re-establish the concept of reference and pioneers to Catalonia as a historical memory. I ended up, President, and I would like to end – and it would have to be normal for me to finish an intervention, in a normal democratic state, that has suffered a dark like the dictatorship, is what they would do to Germany, is what they would do to Italia, to any country that has suffered a dictatorship–, should have just said that it is essential that we keep the memory alive because it never happens again. Unfortunately, here and today, I have to finish saying: we have to keep the memory alive because, quite simply, I stopped passing. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.209.0	Thank you, Mr. Castellà. Finally, for positioning too, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia has the word. [[Pause.]] Member of Parliament Francesc Ten will speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.210.0	Good afternoon, President. President Torra, deputies, deputies, councillor Capella, councillor Borràs, I adhere to the record, condemn and sad for Dr Ernest Lluch, as it could not be in any other way. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, the Ciutadans Group has not supported an institutional declaration of condemnation of the franchise. We were celebrating the eighty years of the battle of the Jew, and yesterday we were, as we all know, 20-N. And, while Catalonia has years of pioneering experience in the State in historical memory, we have not just had a very good comprehensive law, surely. We are just discussing the proposal for a law that the Bureau admitted to forward on July 3rd, and that was prepared by the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group to advance, the Proposition of Democratic Memory Law of Catalonia. We have, for another band, that, in these same microphones, the Honourable Councillor Esther Capella had already announced, before this date of July 3, that the Government was working on a country object, on a draft comprehensive law of historical memory, and that it was working intensively on it. The draft comprehensive law of the democratic memory of Catalonia is, therefore, in the phase of participatory process, as has been said, addressed to the victims and relatives of the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship, addressed to memorialist entities and to citizens in general, so that they can make and retouch the aspects that may not have been satisfactorily resolved until now. This is found on the Participa portal, of the Generalitat de Catalunya : participa. I'm stuck. This bill of law of the Government is willing to ease the objectives of promoting a memory, an integrated public policy of historical memory, which updates and harmonizes the current norms, it is intended to ease the effective reparation of victims and their families, with the aim of ensuring the completion of the principles of transitional justice promoted for the United Nations, importantly, as Congressman Pedret has already pointed out: right to truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. And it is aimed at ensuring coordinated management of public administrations in the matter of historical memory. If we have, therefore, this government's preliminary draft announced, the question we should ask ourselves is whether it would be worth having another text; whether it would be worth doubling projects. I like to think that today's proposal has nothing to do with it and does not want to counterpoint the difficulties that the PSOE has in Madrid in the themes of the Valley of the Fallen. I like to think that it is not because of the domino effects of the laws that the Valencian country, as Mr Castellà expressed, has already worked there... but that, in change, they do not adapt to the Catalan reality. I like to think that this doesn't have to be political opportunism or much less. And if we join together to move forward, we also give it to what it does to historical memory. Wouldn't it be convenient and recommanable and good that in the matter, at least, of democratic memory we sought the maximum consensus from the beginnings? Roundly, yes. And therefore, on behalf of this consensus, we have withdrawn the message to the full, and we will accompany and facilitate the parliamentary process of this proposal today, above all, because in historical memory we would have to put all of us in common, agree, as the companies of the UPC say, and we will seek that among all, together, and in joint processing, we make a serene and powerful refuge of the proposal and of the project as the country deserves. Let me point out some aspects of today's bill's proposal, which, added to the duplicity of unnecessaryness that I have just spelled out, on my face, would give arguments to be worked out and improved in ponència. Instead, it seemed to me that there was an important issue, neither in the presentation of motius nor in the head of the articles. I'd say, phonenal, neural. I refer to the recognition of the irreparable moral and historical damage that Catalonia as a collectivity suffered with the coup d'état and the Franco dictatorship; the damage, the democratic destiny of Catalonia. It would be agreed that a proposal for law that would be superior to the three laws that we have already recognised, somewhere and clearly, moral reparation of a whole country, of all a democracy victim, of a country retaliated and of a society damaged. Who could have been the political destiny of Catalans? What would have been the future of Catalonia's citizens? Catalonian citizenship is like the formula that uses the proposal that we are talking about today, we are discussing, we are debating. The proposed law, at some point, could have spoken of the evil that is not seen, of the intangible and irreparable evil about – I insist – the future democratic destiny of Catalonia that represented the Francoism. In this ensulsified war and dictatorship, a silencing silence – as Constellera Esther Capella said, and to say the least – will be ours. « I have silenced mass, said Agustí Bartra. We have to respond to the history of this, and we have to respond very carefully from this Parliament, as we are starting today, and as other legislative initiatives have already done. As Xavier Antich says, memory places never restore victims, but it is a symbolic first step to the possibility and always so complicated reconciliation, to say, "reconciliation and forgiveness, which I would say do not appear in the proposal we are debating today. Would it be worth this responsibility to reflect the text out of the joint processing? It is today's, a law, surely, very technical, very correct, but it can, in some respects, help to live with the difficult present; it presents blatantly generating reprisals, exiles and prisoners, and which, unfortunately, will be the historical memory of tomorrow. We want to discuss it. We'll answer it up, like Members of this chamber, to history. On the concept of victims, the proposal is mostly clear, but from my point of view, it would still be good to go further and give a more general reflection on this concept, for example, referring – as Mr Nuet has already said – to the victims of the transition. Why is the victims of the transition to democracy not clear in Article 38(3) until the entry into force of the 79th Statute? Why bother? Let's hope not. Why are they, or am I, dough? Wait till you don't either. We believe that the victims of the reprisals of the later period deserve the same treatment, and, therefore, it should be understood as the rest. Now in Catalonia we have three laws and we need one law that does not only group them all three, but that merges them and turns them into a brilliant tool of historical memory into a country object. This does not go far enough in the proposal that we are dealing with today. The law that the Government is preparing will walk towards a comprehensive law and wants to be a law that helps to solve the issues in which the proposal is little decided. That the law that you are doing is plenipotentiary in removing commemorative elements contrary to the democratic memory, and that you do not pass it only to the assembly of public administrations, as the proposal of today says. On elements contrary to democratic memory, it would be worth mentioning, beyond what article 42 literally says: "Commemoration, exaltation or individual exaltation or collection of the military revolt of 1936 and of the Francoism, of its leaders or of the organizations that supported the dictatorial regime. It would be worthwhile to be brave other times and to talk about the fascism, the enhancement of the fascism, a word that comes up with the proposal, or to predict in the sanctioning regime, explicitly, to make apologia of the franchism, to make apologia of the fascism or other criminal totalitarian regimes. It's over, President. Despite the twofold proposal and project that we have talked about, and even minor aspects – some that we have no time to relate –, they will not prevent us, in the name of consensus, memory and democracy, from moving up to joint engagement with the Government's project. MPs, MPs, President, President Torra, Councillor Capella, more. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.211.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yeah? President, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.212.0	By virtue of my duties as President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.213.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.214.0	I'd like to step in. First, to thank all the groups who have spoken in favour of this proposal and joint work. I think it's been a very constructive debate, and I'd like to thank you. But there have also been some questions that have been raised that I would like to point out. Josep Fontana, speaking of Paul Preston's book on The Spanish Holocaust, said that "it is not possible to remain indifferent before so much cruelty, so much suffering and so much heroism. And yet, he adds, "The essential objective of this task of recovering the historical memory of the Republic and of the Civil War is precisely to help prevent any further manipulation. And I think this idea, that Mr. Albiol was just posing in question, wasn't it? This idea of recovering the historical memory in order to prevent it from being manipulated again, the historical memory is, precisely, one of the points I value and find essential from this joint work that we must make all folds, people like ours, without rights, citizens without words, who have had to fight against all sorts of manipulations to win the memory. And when we know that a people without memory, as ours has been, so, there has been a people without access to the truth, and now that we're getting it back, what we can't afford is to try to manipulate it, huh? I would simply like to use the word, therefore, to be able to point this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.215.0	Thank you, President. As he has intervened and the intervention of the President of the Generality and of any other members of the Government are returning, we are now opening a return to the groups, if they so wish, thirty-seconds per group, because he is the equivalent of the President. He spoke for a couple of minutes. Therefore, if they wish to do so, they can use these thirty-seconds to stand up to the debate that the president has opened. [[Several Members are asking to speak.]] Tell me, sir...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] By the same order we've intervened, if that's what it looks like. Therefore, we will start for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. I said so, because I don't know if all groups want to intervene; anyway, it's their right. Mr. Alonso? Yeah, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.216.0	Thank you, President. Just tell the President of the Generality that, in fact, the suffering of victims should not be trivialized, and no one who has seen violent extremism should be re-honored. And, sadly, we have seen the President of the Generalita precisely, in this sense, re-honoring people who in his day had much to see with one of the most violent periods of our history. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.217.0	Thank you, Congressman. If it looks good, we'll make the same return as in the initial interventions; so now it would be Mr. Joan Josep Nuet's return. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.218.0	Yes, thank you, President. Yes, President, to some people who have defended the idea of non-repetition, they have told us that we are nostalgic. But today, when we see the streets of Europe and some of the streets of the Spanish State, the unbridled Faixist groups, we see that we are not nostalgic, and that we do not repeat it in the matter of the historical memory continues to feel an assignment that we cannot forget. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.219.0	Thank you, Congressman. Take the order of intervention, as the groups have done, seeing that initially the proposal was of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units for Forwarding, therefore, is the return – excuse – of Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.220.0	Thank you, President. To see, we have seen in all interventions, or almost all, judgments of intent and some intention, I believe, respect the general orientation to which the debate is to lead on this bill's proposal. Far more so than the intention of our parliamentary group to try to count on a good law of Catalonia's historical memory that appeals to existing ones and that improves the text as much as possible. We believe that looking at the past is necessary to ensure that in the future there is never more facts than they have produced, and it seems to me that we would do very badly to sweep this debate, this political will, with other questions that actually divide us, because we have been able to fill in a very recent past to overcome these divisions and to make good historical memory laws. Try this one, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.221.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Ara, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, Mr Aragonese. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.222.0	I suppose in our case it's fifteen seconds, very quick, so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.223.0	As they are very few seconds, we will leave thirty of them, like the rest of the groups, because, if not, it is almost materially impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.224.0	Thank you. So we can even vocalize – or I'll try. To express that we see how there is historical relativism, and what provokes historical relativism is a movement towards the right and that opens the door that those discourses that we have never accepted, of racist character, xenophob, but also to relativize what was meant by fascism, can advance with normality. That's right, from the CUP-Cry They're... us, before this: memory. And remember that it doesn't only mean remembering what happened in the past, but simply repeating the methods of conquest of rights that have been taught to us by previous generations. And, therefore, all thanks to those whom they fought, and to those who taught us how to win rights. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.225.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, Mr García Albiol. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.226.0	Thank you. As the President referred to me, I will also try, in the same way, to answer him. Mr President, as we trust you to make a balanced description of the past and history, if we are living at these times in Catalonia an evidence; and this evidence is that you are able, in favor of an ideology or a way of thinking, no longer just to rewrite history, but to invent the presence that we are living at these times. So you can't trust him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.227.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Toni Castellà has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.228.0	Yes, thank you, President. Since our group, President Torra, we are completely in agreement – and I have said this to my intervention – in the importance of not repeating things, remembering. The importance of going to the tributes. I believe that you and I have shared honours before Companies, before Carrasco and Formiguera..., I assume that some Member of the House is not to refer to these honours, of which we are proud. But above all, the memory has to mean that never Members of this chamber participate in demonstrations in which there are also fascist elements that raise their arms and one another. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.229.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of deputy Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.230.0	Many thanks, President Torra, for your words. I repeat, I reiterate the will to advance in this project of historical memory, collectively, as the country, to advance looking at the past without nostalgia– not to accuse ourselves of nostalgics–, to advance towards a future better, of non-repetition and of justice for everyone today and to which they are unfortunately no longer there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.231.0	Thank you, Member, for the cooperation of the parliamentary groups. As there are no totalities, because, as we have said before, the two that were initially proposed have withdrawn, this legislative initiative can continue its processing. [[Report of the Syndic of Greuges to the Parliament corresponding to 2017]] [[360-00001/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, the new item, which is the presentation of the Report of the Greuges Synod to the Parliament corresponding to the year 2017. Before starting this point, I would like to greet, in the name of the chamber, the syndic of heavyweights and the members of his team, who today accompany us to this plenary session. In accordance with Rule 181 of the Rules of Procedure, the panel will present a general summary of the report, and will then be the turn of the parliamentary groups. It has the word, when vulgui, the syndic of heaviness, Mr. Rafael Ribó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.232.0	Thank you, President. Twenty-i-u of November 2018. We will analyze in full the 2017 Annual Report, freed up to the principles of fever, as we have done every year and as I have already announced that a few weeks from now the 2018 Report will be available. I am pleased that we can see it here in the House; we saw it at the committee on June, as set out in the Rules of the Chamber. 2017, meaning doubt, is an exceptional year. And it's an exceptional year where we find ourselves with the worst terrorist attempts in Catalonia since many years ago, and we find ourselves with all the events that revolve around what we could call October 1st. About the tempts..., and I will be in all brevity and telegraphic, both for chronological distance and for the debates we have had in some subjects already in full or in commission in this house; for what it does in the tempts, everyone knows the report of the Syndic that was delivered in November 2017 to Parliament. A report that focused on issues that were still in force. There was no parliamentary appearance of the Government of Spain to explain what happened to Barcelona and Cambrils: unimaginable in any mature and consolidated democracy. Times that still have as the syndic's recommendation the full recognition of the Squad Mossos as the integral police of Catalonia and as the police that must have access to all the state and international coordination agencies in the fight against terrorism, as they have some other police of the State from a sub-state unit as Catalonia. And what he can't admit, as the syndic says in his report, is that this is party bargaining change. Security can never be a party changer. Clamping of links between some prominent characters in these times and state apparatuses is still pending. All of this we have explained to the report, we have discussed it, we have explained to the committee of Parliament that it has called for respect, and we hope that this Parliament will move forward as far as possible, and with the rigour that we have seen in that committee on behalf of all parliamentary groups, to give some answer. The second exceptional fact, of course, is that it goes around the 1st of October, with all the rules so many violations of the Constitution and other laws in this chamber and on behalf of the Generality, as the answer that was given, both with a criminal disproportion and with an absence from politics. It was time he was warning, the syndic, of regressions of some right. The most veterans will remember when the syndic said, from the hand of the Greek, that in Spain there was a growing partisanship of justice. Today's almost an acclaim to say it, remember it. When in April 2017 we thought that Spain had..., and we say it not as the syndic, but following what the Greek says, a partisanship of justice, which demanded a series of important corrections, with institutional mechanisms of justice, then it seemed that we did not know what kind of exaggeration; today it is much diminished, because reality, once more, has overflowed with us. The report, like all the syndic's global annual reports, has a whole chapter of statistical data, where all the segregated data by subject matter will be found: by territorial origin, by persons, by genera, by administrations, etc. It has a second-place analysis of the most significant subjects and actions of encany, as well as those we have made of offices, and it has an analysis of all the resolutions that were not accepted by the administrations. And there's also a little show that they're moving forward. And, lastly, a rest from institutional activities. There are three items that are justified out of the report as to their thickness, because they have their correspondents annual reports. Childhood; many days ago we saw in this chamber..., the childhood report of the 18th year was exposed in this chamber, which we hope to be able to analyse as soon as Catalonia is complete, or not, the aspects of the Geneva Convention on the Rights of Infants. They have, since the end of the 17th, the Report on the Catalan Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture, and since July there has also been the Transparency Report. I could put up with every single one of these places, things that are now very current, not those that happened on the 18th, but those that were produced on the 17th. I would just like to point out that what we said on July 17th, for which it makes such an important issue as transparency and access to information, it seemed to us that we were on the right track, forward, today we are encouraged. The Catalonian administrations are encouraged by the compliment of the rights and rights on access to information from the citizenry, and on the transparency of the bodies of the administrations. We are not going to the same rhythm that we were at the time of implanting all that was the law that you drew up. It is worth saying that we again place the emphasis on social issues, 2017. Probably not as strong as 2016, because someone will say that it is beginning to notice the recovery of the crisis. There are macroeconomic data on which this claim could be based, despite the fact that there are no other evidence that many units in Catalonia still find themselves in vulnerable situations. And this is seen at 17 both in social services as in health as in education and as in housing. On 17th we will find two arrangements that helped to advance particularly vulnerable collectivities. With regard to the implementation of guaranteed citizenship income as the new benefit, which replaces the minimum income, to ensure a minimum of decent life for people, and they are pending their regulatory deployment. I would ask that the analysis be done when we see, a few weeks from now, what has happened throughout the 18th, which is the full year of this return. And also pointing out that the Royal Decree of 6 October on the social good and measures for the protection of consumers of electric energy, a Royal Decree which provided for a series of materials, basically, around the count, which implicitly carried, and thus taught us at the end of the 17th, an overload of work in social service centers, an increase in delays, an opportunity to complicate the solution of the issue. We warn on the 17th, again, that the law of dependence in Catalonia does not enjoy enough of the model of follow-up, neither of instructions, nor of protocol. And the Department of Work has recently indicated to us that it is in line to achieve with locals a solution to respect. We said on the 17th that, obviously, there was a saturation of emergency services, both for complaints that it is as well as for on-site visits, for hours of stay in these, on condition, as it could violate the right to privacy of the same patients... And it was then to speak of the National Emergency Plan of Catalonia, which we could value as regards its compliment. One more year we repeated that there were many people who had not rejected the proper treatment at the Catalan Institute of Medical Evaluations, when it was 'lsha to evaluate in their capacity to work, and we did even a show of respect, sometimes from the hand of the demand of some institutes belonging to the same Administration. We requested and returned to ask and again to ask for a specific training of professionals to deal with such an important issue. We still saw things in the social camp that affected the Youth Guarantee programme and the legislation that made it difficult to access it fully, presumably pending resolutions. We pointed out in this social package the great issue that has led us to a continuous discussion, but not a resolution, that we are redoubling it and that it is now much more alive, of housing; now, of the housing of emergence; now, of the absolute need to address with measures of shock this question of promoting social housing. I can't help but settle in this apartment, even though it belongs to one of the reports that we have submitted monographically and to two of the specifics, that we continue to address the main problem that education has socially in Catalonia, which is not adoption – we don't play hand games – is segregation in our education system. Segregation on entry and segregation in the management of educational centres. The syndic proposed in two monographic reports the analysis of this fact and invited the entire educational community to arrive at a pact to combat it; we were going to make much progress, and we were interrupted and escaped in this effort with the application of 155. I'm talking about 17. There are advances: on the 18th, as you should know and as we look at the current year's report, we have taken this very same path hard, to see if we can get a common denominator of agents as diverse and contradictory as there is in the world of education, to fight this same fact, which is what makes the unequal opportunities in education in Catalonia worse. It is worth saying in the social package that people help solve all these things sometimes that the Government of Spain has harshly read the laws of this Parliament to the Constitutional Court; social laws that have been parked for this decision that entails, once re-corrected by the Government, automatically, suspension, without knowing the decision of the court. The second great distance on which I want to call their attention to the 17th, because they continue to feel the 18th and growing, is that we do not have enough care of our territory. We are not sufficiently aware of what it means as a good collection to preserve the territory of Catalonia and the need that can leave for future generations to grow the maneuver of real estate speculations that from the hand to imagine that quickly they will fall..., without taking into account that they are playing with a good that is to be preserved by everything else. They have a monographic report, which we will soon see in committee, where the syndic summarises the norms, actions and public policies that are massively permissive with attacks on the territory. And I hope we can still get in more deeply when we monograph the aagafe. In this territorial area I would also like to point out the questions that affect something that costs a lot to convince our people that it is a right: the right to rest, the sorolls, from all over, shoot. The slowness, when not paralyzed, of administrations that do not act in front of people's requests to respect the right to rest, not only in punctual facts that go around events like major parties, but in continuous and repeated things; look at another band when there is a concrete case in which to act, and sometimes when very hard feelings of respect have fallen. And the same would say about a question in which we still have no regulatory regulations and we are obliged to keep it: the odorous contamination in Catalonia, which would be an important issue, of democratic maturity, to be able to address it. We have to say that the syndic continues to grow the complaints that go around the topic of consumption, starting with energy, telecommunications, transport, water supply... that we have a good collaboration with the big companies. That we should be able to give much more information and find much faster lives of solution. That we sometimes go too far in the attention of the official consumer organisations, starting with the Catalan Consumer Agency, in assisting people who have problems, and more when the European Union is demanding a full implementation of ADRs, the alternatives dispute resolutions, which set up very quick and effective instruments to resolve this type of conflict. In this apartment – now it seems that I say so because there are again data of great convenience –..., we already talked to them again about the Beaver. And we talked to them about the Castor when, since 2014, we had this chamber for a report, monographically, about what we believe and I continue to believe is one of the biggest scandals ever experienced by Spanish democracy, about how the money of all taxpayers and all consumers is going to pay for a monumental error of business calculation on the part of private initiative and when there are reports of the 17th, that we signed, of institutions as prestigious as MIT – the Massachusetts Institute of Technology – that dispel all the excuses that had been given, that there was nothing to see with the injection of gas and earthenware that were given to Alcanar, to Vinarós and to all that part of the coast that had been given, that there was nothing to do with the gas and land that was given to Alcanar, to Vinarós, and to all that part of the land that had been left behind by the thousands of people. We now have the Constitutional Court's ruling. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, everyone who sees the Constitutional Court! , judgment for unanimity of its members! Says he's a right-hand man. And you know, everyone who understands a bit of a right, that no one in the right wants to go back to the original situation! No effort has been made to claim a sum of EUR 1,350 million, which was paid by good Europeans and which went to what had been made by the first investments. Now there is a feeling of the Supreme who has put an end to the payment of what the maintenance of the platform means any other year, which are these drawings of millions of euros; but these thousands, which will be 4,500 at the end of the whole period, with the interested correspondents, which the Constitutional Court has declared to be null and void..., at the moment, there is not the slightest reaction! You, someone of you, imagine some entity that disobeys a unanimous decision of the Constitutional that declares no one in full right an action that demands restitution, what could happen to it? The answer is very simple, huh? They come to this sign that so much this chamber as other chambers and like other institutions that have much more competence continue to look at another side, when this happens. We are also talking in this same report about issues affecting tax matters, such as the substantial change that has been made to the Basic Law of the Law of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, with the issue of responsibilities, when it makes clear how far the responsibilities for damages arising from the operation of public services, independently of the option or direct or indirect performance chosen for the Administration, are to be achieved. We speak, in this part of the Administration, the need to consolidate the right to the control of everyone who is living in Catalonia. It's too much to get hold of from the administration to the landownership. Except it's blinding, absurd and contradictory, because it's refusing to recognize what we are! Another thing is to demand that the forecasts on housing, on the conditions of health, on... But to stop recognizing, that already sees the obligation from the Law of Local Regime Bases, of the eighty..., to flag everyone who is between us, as still happens today and as we have stated in the 2017 report, is absurd. It's also the 17th and it's pending legislation that can't charge the most valuable tax when there's no more valuable tax! There's a ruling from the 17th Constitution, it's about to be regulated! We're still complaining about respect; we signed it on the 17th! How can we charge a taxpayer... who pays the tax on a plus that may have been the other way around, has he been devalued that good he's acquired? And here he sees the clear judgment of the Constitutional Court. We also speak in the report of issues affecting freedom and security, beyond this exceptional conflict that we have examined in three reports we have seen, either in committee or in plenary in this chamber. We spoke, in the area of freedom and security, that the lockdown of the Model prison, which was produced in the 17th year, should involve the assumption by the city of Barcelona of its responsibility in the prison system. It is easy for the capital of Catalonia to expel from its borders any equipment that can disturb – and I speak with Nimby's terminology. Barcelona has a share of social responsibility to be exercised, and it is pending. And they're about to be unplanned, which I already know they've got..., and I can feel them saying to me, "No, if you're expecting... I know, I know there's a lot planned, but we're already at the end of the 18th and, knowing this syndicate, it didn't happen so far that, in fact, this issue was completed. As there are also pending things that can be detailed, important, as is the whole issue of recording cameras, still, in some dependencies and as they are..., in transport vehicles. They have extraordinary reports, in the band of the four annuals of the year 17, on the application of the Convention of Rights of the Child – that they know that it has been incorporated into the United Nations; that of Catalonia it has been incorporated by will of United Nations to the international global report – that there is the report on the right to coexistence, that in part it touches on issues that I have already said, on the right to rest, on the application to Catalonia of the norms that you have made on the European law of the rights of LGBTBI, on private security and, obviously, on the one I have already mentioned, on terrorism. I must say that the performances are once more superior to those of the previous year. They have locations for all the indicators that are foreseen in the law; they can see the global map of Catalonia. We have increased the movement of the Syndic's Office throughout Catalonia: four days a week we are on the streets and locations of Catalonia attending people with consultations or complaints, opening the institution always in social areas, with publicity, to physically attend people who do not have enough with contact via electronic mail or via webcam and videoconferencing; that we have, in this sense, a result growing, positive, of collaboration of the administrations with the syndic's pocket. We're going over the administration's response days. They're still too long. If you look at the report and compare the days the trustee cheats, the days the person or entity has the complaint cheats and the days the Administration cheats, it still doubles or nearly triples the Administration to the others. They ask, to all those who have responsibilities to the administrations, greater availability and speed to attend to this type of requests that the syndicate can make. We have to say, one more year – and of which I am very satisfied – that there has been no negative obstacle to the syndic's requests. Someone will be surprised, but it's that before there were, and we managed to eliminate them. We still have to..., we have at these times, since the 17th, want 76 per cent of resolutions fully accepted; a 20 per cent vote, partially, and a 2 per cent vote not accepted by the administrations, which, as you know, the syndic's resolutions are not binding. We have inaugurated new instruments to make the relationship with the syndic even simpler. There's an electronic one from the 17th that anyone can use to find out where their complaint is, the documentation of this, the Administration's response as it went along, with maximum transparency. And we are working colza to colza with all the other agents who are in charge of defending rights to other rights, such as those of other autonomous communities, or the Ombudsman of Spain, or at the international concert. I say with pride that 2017 was the year in this House, in this Parliament, the Second Symposium on Human Rights and Liberties, with the participation of the European Commissioner for Human Rights, the Ombudsman for the People of the European Union, the Director of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights and all European defenders, and that he gave as a result – and they have everything on our web; some Members, some Members were present – a whole set of conclusions that can be seen today as predicting things that have happened when for Europe too, such as Catalonia and the rest of the State, there are serious problems with the advent of human rights. All right, all right, Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.233.0	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Syndic. Now, to fix their position, they have the word for fifteen minutes parliamentary groups. In the first place, the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, in the person of the deputy Manuel Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.234.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputies and deputies... and welcome, Mr Ribó. Report of the year 2017, published in February and presented now at the November plenary session. Just ten months, we're good; just ten months, it seems like nothing's happened. What we have been able to find out during these ten months is that, firstly, their appearances are scheduled according to the interests of the separatist parties, and, secondly, that he does not like to come here to Parliament very much to realize what really matters, and especially when the opposition urges him to come to account. Only, what you care about. Well, there are two appearances urged by my political group – the party that won the elections in Catalonia, I remind you – in which we asked him during the month of October and during the month of November, first of all, to inform us about the September 6 and 7 coup to democracy. We want to know mainly where you were that day, why you didn't paralyse that legal bodrio, and we also don't know what opinion you have of that absolutist law and that you were stealing our rights from all Catalans. Secondly, you have again shielded yourself in the separatist groups to block the appearance on their bowling and their communications that you have made to other ombudsmen of the people, international organizations, where you spoke ill of Spain, where you also spoke ill of our democracy and where you also spoke ill of our institutions. But, as I'm telling you, you'd rather not come here than face it. You may appear even at your own request; you have not done so, but you are shielded, as always, in the separatist parties and in Podemos. The question is: does so much fear make you come to explain to us what you do when no one sees you? In relation to the report, there are two points. On the one hand, we could talk about the real problems, which affect Catalans, which we could even agree on in many respects. In others, we believe that there is a great deal of precision missing, but, as you will understand, with the time we have little we can do. Then there is another part of the report that we could define as part of the report of the political commissioner Ribó, that is, we are going to put an amendment to the whole because of the lack of rigour, because it goes beyond its functions, because it acts in favour of a concrete political ideology – separatism – and you also lose any legitimacy to represent the Catalans as a sign of hardship. In relation to the first block, which we call it'real problems of Catalans'. First of all, you have commented on the Castor case as one of the most serious in democracy. Well, I think there are also other very serious cases in which in fourteen years you have not pronounced yourself: the case of 3 percent, 3 percent in public works. In 14 years you have not opened any ex officio proceedings or produced a comprehensive report. We also wanted to know why this case seems to be that the trustee is not interested. Or the case of ATLL, Aigues Ter Llobregat. Also the seagulls, the seagulls we pay for all Catalans. In your report we would also highlight some of the..., we cannot clearly highlight all of them, because we have very little time, but we would talk about hospital emergency services. You..., we find it alarming that you speak that "even if it is on time, at certain times of the year. Well, it's not punctual, don't whitewash reality. It is a structural problem, of cuts, of mismanagement, of lack of political initiative, of lack of interest to solve the real problems of Catalans by the Department of Salut. And even today there has been an inquiry about health and the counselor said that the criteria that the law sets for care in a primary care center, that is, two days, were met. If we want to go to the CAP, we can request it and in two days, in theory, according to the law, they have to attend to us. That said, a partner of mine, well, he's asked for it. And, specifically, at the time when he requested it, they gave him the date for December 11, that is, for within twenty days. And now I ask you: Does it surprise you that emergencies are saturated, if we have to wait twenty days? Then also other questions, for example, the theme of..., for a knee prosthesis in Bellvitge, are 89_days; in the Moisès Broggi, 173_days; a hip prosthesis in Bellvitge are 72_days, or in Viladecans, 173. Then, another major issue, which we believe is no less important: the child protection system and the fight against abuse. There is talk of higher care pressure, it is quite a challenge, but especially now with unaccompanied minors. In fact, we have seen that one report has now been presented in September and another in November, but with regard to the 2017 report, we do not see any doubt about the current system. We believe that it deserves a thorough examination and a thorough reflection of this whole system. Nor was there any mention in that report of major problems such as why 25_percent of the helplessness of Spain as a whole is carried out by DGAIA. Or why we don't have a regulation that develops the Children's Act since 2010, it's been eight years. Or, why you have not opened an ex officio investigation against Mr. Ricard Calvo, Director of Children of Catalonia, on irregularities and the management of contracts of centres for minors protected by the DGAIA. Why is that not of interest to you? Perhaps because this gentleman has been accused of giving nothing more and nothing less than 98_million_of_euro to related entities; or because this gentleman was in surplus of his employees at the Fundació Accó Social Infància, with a contract in force, although suspended. In his public statement he omitted the entity with which he had developed his managerial responsibility, and nevertheless granted him half a million euros. Finally, this gentleman was terminated on 29 August by the previous government, but in view of these facts, you did not open any file or draw up any report. There is also another report that we believe is important and relevant in addition to highlighting that it is the calculation of merit in the experience in charge of functions. You tell us that public administrations must fill vacancies by means of public competitions, however, there are also two extraordinary figures such as commissions of services or duties. Well, you – I told you in committee – do not preach by example. That is, the institution of the Greuges Synod specifically has a 35.1_percent of eventuals, compared to other statutory organs is scandalous. And in comparison I would say that specifically the Parliament of Catalonia has a 5.2; the Council of Statutory Guarantees has a 0; the Union of Accounts has a 0.9; the Antifrau Office, a 9.4; and the Legal Advisory Commission, a 0. And you're a 35. I think at least you have to think about this and start by setting an example. More stuff. I also believe that there are other issues that also seriously affect the complaints to the Institut d'Avaluacions Médiques, the individual care programme, the reservation of parking spaces for persons with disabilities, access to the Youth Guarantee programme, the registration of occupations, the operation of emergency tables, basic supplies and the social bonus. Then we would also have the second part, the second block of the report. The report of the political commissioner Ribó, you. You open an ex-officio action on the statements of Mr., former Senator Santi Vidal, when you were talking about illegally obtaining tax data for the illegal referendum. However, you, in this report, treat it as an isolated incident, an ex-abrupt of Mr Vidal. Well, then, the reality is very different. It turns out that Judgement of Instruction No. 13 does not consider him an ex-abrupt, in fact, he opened proceedings and these proceedings continue. But it's just that little by little we're getting to know the truth. In other words, there is a report from the Civil Guard that finds that the Generalitat hired two programs to steal tax data from Catalans. Or that the director of the Catalan Data Protection Authority has also recently been accused by the same judge in the face of the shown passivity. Why not open an open - minded action in the face of the illegal theft of data from all Catalans? Doesn't that interest the syndic? I also want to know if you are aware that thousands of Catalans denounced this illegal transfer of our data and again you whiten it, as usual. On the other hand, another issue was the implementation of article 155. Looks like 155 fell from the sky. Of course, if on September 6th and 7th you weren't watching TV, you weren't in Parliament, you'd been hiding or gone on vacation, we don't know that. You'll have to answer us. But specifically 155 was applied for a very simple reason, because here the rights of all Catalans were violated, because here in addition the Constitution and the Statute were repealed, they tried to repeal. And fortunately, the State and the Constitution acted. So, you don't come to give us any lessons, nor do I think at least the surprise that..., as if 155 had fallen from heaven. He even raises it as if he knew where it came from, but he does not want to reflect it in his report. The question is again: where were you on September 6th and 7th? Tell them. You are also sold as a mediator abroad, but your position derives directly from the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia, which were tried to repeal on days 6 and 7. To avoid answering the following question too..., what were you doing on October 26, 2017 meeting with the rebellion committee? Tell you what, too. Perhaps, I think you should take action against yourself and finally resign. Complaints..., well, you define it as ‘complaints to the environment of the exercise of the right to participation; translated into Spanish – or Catalan, eh? –: the holding of an illegal referendum, basically. It focuses on two axes: on the one hand, the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia. Well, what always happens, you vote, right? There is no change in LOREG. For what? So that a LOREG is fair, isn't it? That, in other words, what the Catalans are voting for is finally represented by the Members here. Or that..., also remind you that CiU voted in favour of the petitioned vote, the one you complain about, so the parties that defend you..., here Convergence i Unió voted for that petitioned vote. I think it is important that I speak with separatist groups, those who help him block his appearances so that he does not come to explain to Parliament what he has not done and where he was hiding those days. Relationship to the vote on 1 October, which is actually not to say illegal referendum. It reports some previous facts. We are surprised that he is not indignant at the fraudulent interpretation of the separatist groups in Parliament on the 6th and 7th days. He was not surprised at what he was proposing. Any ombudsperson or defender of the target people representing all their citizens would have been outraged and would have initiated ex officio proceedings against the material perpetrators of that coup against democracy. Any defender of the town would have done it. And, you, we didn't even know where he was. For that reason I repeat, where were you those days? Why did he not act on his own initiative? Why did he not open proceedings against those responsible? And, besides, one thing you also know: you could have paralyzed all that. That legal body that considered that, well, that judges could be chosen by finger, that could leave inapplicable any law that did not seem consistent to the former president. Are you aware that with seventy Members here you have also repealed the institution of the Greuges Synod? When they repealed the Constitution and the Statute they also repealed the Synod of Greuges and, are you not aware of that? Or also that on September 15, 2017 you send a letter to authorities in which you express the adoption of two ad hoc laws but curiously tell us« ad hoc laws but forget to say that they were illegal laws, that they were suspended laws and that they were unconstitutional laws. And also with possible implications in relation to freedom of expression, freedom of information and freedom of assembly. They derogate from the entire constitutional framework. What would they have promised you, Mr Ribó? Nine more years ahead of another political chiringuite? That is why we have asked you to appear and you have rejected it. He has been shielded in the separatist parties. And we have sent a letter to all the national and international agencies to which it was addressed, and do not worry that we will also send you a letter. Basically in the letter, he tells him: "The brief space we have in this letter prevents us from entering into a detailed account of the facts, but we want to convey to him the fundamental line of what happened. Mr Carles Puigdemont and Mr Oriol Junqueras, president and vice-president of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, devised and implemented an articulated plan which aimed to depose the Spanish Constitution and unilaterally and undemocraticly proclaim the independence of Catalonia. In order to do so, they had two laws passed without respect for Parliament's Rules of Procedure which gave them power without limits or controls, the execution of which required the conniving, if not openly favourable, attitude of a multitude of public offices which had been appointed directly by the Government of the Autonomous Community itself or by the Parliament of Catalonia, thanks to the parliamentary majority, which was not social, of the independence groups. And this is where you come in. One of the public offices mentioned above is Mr Rafael Ribó, a person who held the position of syndic of pelages, Ombudsman of Catalonia in those months, and who continues to hold office today. Its obligation as such since the non-subordination to the political power assumed by it would have been to raise its voice and actively exercise its powers, contrary to the massive violation of fundamental rights that was given, which affected not only the deputies of the political groups to whom political representation was de facto stripped and to the whole of the citizenry, to whom, among other abuses, their personal data were stolen for illegal purposes, using public money and public goods. However, in unequivocal and guilty abandonment of Mr Ribó's responsibilities, he preferred not only not to react as his duty would have been, but to deploy a personal activity of open support to the policy of Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras, thus contributing to the image of normality and legality, both internally and abroad, to what had really been an attempt of illegal secession led by a radical nationalist and populist minority, as well as by anti-systemist and anti-European populist movements. [[The orator shows a document to the chamber.]] Here's the letter. Don't worry, we'll get it to you. On the other hand, and finally, the truth is that we question you, Mr Ribó, the misuse of the institution of the Greuges Synod, of your clearly political position, and if an act is illegal, it is illegal and there is nothing to discuss. He would have saved hours and lots of paper, but the truth is that we hope that he will not prolong his agony in office after fourteen years, which, by the way, are many years, and also very long, and especially when you do not fulfill your function and your task. Tell the truth and resign. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.235.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, also to fix his position, has the word Ms. Marta Moreta, for the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.236.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, president, today, one and a half minutes away from finishing the year, we are discussing the 2017 report. I don't think I can devote any more comments to it, that's all. Shoot back a year and settle down. On other occasions, syndicate, we believed that the annual report was a good working document that served as the basis document for making the control task of better proposals and definitions of government performance. And I did know that, in the past, because on other occasions it was a good document, because, above all, it was drawn up on the political neutrality that the Greuges Union should have; but unfortunately, we cannot say the same about the 2017 report. In the final Ple, syndic, I told you that you have decided to position yourself only on one side, on the side of society. He's only decided to represent a few, and it doesn't make sense the neutrality he should have, and we don't think that's the position the Greuge Union has to take. Because, syndicate, part of your report we share, we agree, above all all the work that makes reference to the social side, but we cannot share or agree with the argument that it makes of other issues, especially when it is put in the face of politics, because, first, it does not touch it, and second, because it stops representing the half of the population. You, like everyone else, surely have feelings, think in a certain way. You also have a political position and an ideology of your own. But, as Catalonia's heavyweight syndicate, its way of acting must be under neutrality, equity and political impartiality. And this report doesn't complete any of these adjectives. And we can say it loud and clear – I don't know if you listen to me – but it looks like you feel like you're raining. This impartiality doesn't go with you. And a lot of us were going to vote because you're in front of this charge, but that doesn't do everything. We have many examples of this lack of impartiality: the summary report of the actions around '1 October, the report of violation of the fundamental rights and public freedoms on the occasion of the criminal reaction of '1 October and the application of Article 155, which we have already discussed the Ple past. And, look, it doesn't look bad to me that these reports are being written, look what I'm saying, it doesn't look bad to me. But it seems to me very badly that they are not made under political neutrality. And, as I reminded him in the past Ple, we still hope that one day he will agree– he will agree– that he has made a mistake in not writing the events that have taken place in this Parliament on the 6th and 7th of September. The report we are discussing today, you refer to judgments of the Constitutional Court, putting it as a reference in different areas: in areas such as the limits of freedom of expression, the right of the LGTBI collection, the higher-value tax, alleged ill-treatment in prison, and could follow. But, curiously, about the vulnerability of the Members of this Parliament, it is not enough to talk about it or make a specific report. Unfortunately, syndicate, this shows what he was saying to the hinterland: you have decided to sit next to one another and leave the others behind. I don't insist on it anymore, because I've already asked it for active and passive, and there's no form. I would not like to leave the opportunity, at any rate, to congratulate your team with reference to the social policies described in the report. In the field of gender, it is still paradigmatic that women are the ones who do the most complaints in social matters, while men dedicate complaints in the field of citizen security. Therefore, can we deduce that women suffer more in terms of social policies? Or is it that women are only dedicated to these complaints because we live in a very patriarchal society, where the roles still man-woman are very standardized? Perhaps we need to reflect deeply on this issue. Later years the annual report puts emphasis on social policies, and it obviously has to be that way, but it doesn't stop surprising 'when, again years, and we can pull a lot back, we end up talking about the same issues, and it seems that we can't find any solution despite the increase in complaints that the Greuges Syndicate said. Some examples, such as hospital emergencies, include the saturation of some hospital emergency services of the Catalan Comprehensive Health System of Public Use, known as SIAP, the conditions that have had to be met by users such as the passing letters of the services, the violation of the right to privacy and privacy. And I wouldn't want to stop talking, too, about equal representation of women and men in the governing bodies of the administrations; a subject that, on the other hand, is also recurring. The law, 17/2015, of effective equality of women and men, this law which was approved for a large majority of this Parliament, and which in its Article 2 clearly indicates that "public administrations must adhere to the principle of equal representation of women and men in their names and designations, and must be equal within five years to count on the entry into force of this law. So we're in the third year and this issue isn't solved yet. In advance, with deien, favorably. As your report says, and with text words, "women are underrepresented. Home, we hoped you'd say something else, but he stayed here; they're just underrepresented. Something I should have commented on, I say, I don't know. It did not leave me indifferent to the freedom of expression and the rights of the LGTBI collection, because this last year was especially complicated for this collection. The syndic has opened different acts of office on various topics that I am sure they will remember: the comments made for the bishop of Solson on homosexuality, or the comments made for the chapel of the parish of the Immaculate Conception, of the Hospitallet de Llobregat, or the address of Mr. Philippe Ariño to the parish of St. Anna. In his report he says that, once analyzed, the syndic coincides with the Directorate General of Equality that it is not possible to open a sanctioning procedure. And, in the case of the bishop of Solsona and Mr. Ariño, because they cannot constitute any regulated administrative offence. Even though the words of Solsona's bishop can be said to have been scandalous, anachronistic and unacceptable, more obviously to generate less and less, behaviors considered to be infringing in the law's sanctioning regime against homophobia, and, taking into account all this – that my parliamentary group has, moreover, on various occasions presented proposals for resolutions that have been approved in this Parliament – it has not yet been made this decree to regulate the sanctioning procedure. And you in the report don't even mention it, it's not done, it's not critical, it's not considered. Okay. In the matter of social welfare and respect for the Guaranteed Income of Ciutadania, the syndic asks to make effective the monthlyities that remain pending. But we have no answer to the number of complaints that have been filed by affected persons, and we consider that the Generality is making a restrictive interpretation of the law: requests that wait more than four months for a resolution, and to which the positive administrative silence that marks the law does not apply; little justified denials and a full implementation of the law of problems. The council is always listening to the need to have a regulation, but they will still trig for a couple of hundred days – almost nothing – to be approved. We find it lacking that the syndic did not express more clearly on this subject, since we think that a person at risk of social exclusion cannot wait two hundred days for his or her performance. On the other hand, there is another issue that concerns us and is the lack of the public park of social housing, which today is completely inadequate and which we have not spoken many times in this Parliament. We need to increase it and the government needs to make the presuppositionary efforts – it is well that there is the advisor here – necessary to increase this housing park. With this we would get, from a band, to give out to people who cannot afford a housing at the market price, but also to focus on the global prices of the housing. The joints cannot apply their right to content and retract, because their assumptions are very tight, and they do not allow them to exercise these rights sufficiently. It would have to be the Generalitat that more resources were allocated to the acquisition of habitat for this way. It cannot be that on the issue of occupation the Generalitat continues without acting leaving the assemblies completely alone, and the pressure on the financial entities seeking the cessation of their unoccupied habitats needs to be intensified. We cannot tackle the mobilization of empty habitat in the same way if it is treated with great condors or small owners. And, therefore, we agree with you that there is a need to encourage different measures in both areas. I would like to finish my intervention by talking about the activities that cause illness because of the indecentness that they emit – you have not made a reference. There is an urgent lack of specific regulations governing odour contamination. And, on the other hand, there are a lot of people who suffer from these effects every day, and we can't stop fighting because there's this regulation right away. And, obviously, I could go a lot further off the extensive report, with a lot of interesting issues, but I also have to say that there are a lot of thematic reports that help us and allow us to develop this level of argument to the committees we usually have, and I would leave my intervention here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.237.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. All the same, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr Joan Josep Nuet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.238.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, very honourable councillor, Members and Members, first of all, before starting, wanted to make some reminders; one, which I repeat as a mantra and which I will continue to repeat to every parliamentary intervention on which the syndicate attends: the union of hardships is an independent institution of the Government of Catalonia, according to this Parliament that now, in this act and in many others that we do through the syndicate's parliamentary commission, in fact parliamentary control. That said, we are ahead of the union report for the year 2017, it's the second time we've discussed it. He already discussed the Commission of the Syndic; today we come back, we do it in Ple. The year 2017, which I don't know if they would agree with me, was a very special year, many special things happened. Therefore, I told the Board of Trustees, and I repeat here, that it is normal that the report of the Board of Trustees is, in some way, a miracle of Catalan society. And the things that have happened to Catalan society we have to find, yes or yes, to the syndic's report, because, if not, this syndic would be syndic I don't know which place, but it wouldn't be syndic of Catalonia. Therefore, this is a finding. And, of course, on the syndic's report we find October 1st, we find 155, or we find false indoctrination to the schools. And there are Members and Members and parliamentary groups who do not like these reports. Well, that's a legitimate opinion. What's going on is the syndic's report has three-hundred plans, huh? If you fall a little and it hurts, I can assure you. The syndic's report says that 30_percent of complaints are complaints in social issues. The first theme of the syndic's report is complaints of social issues, as is normal since the syndic reports in the period of crisis in which we find ourselves; that 24_percent of the complaints are complaints that arise from the territory. And, as the syndic said very well, to the Commission of the syndic we will assess the specific report on territories. And, therefore, we will not talk about the process, we will talk about the territory, because the territory is also a great generator of problems. Because this report is the summary of 16,000 complaints– 16,000 complaints–, 26,000 consignors who have been processed and 60,500 affected persons. And the process is also there, but I can assure them that in these three-hundred plans it does not occupy a small part. Yes, it's true that some of the syndic's reports... one that's here briefly, the one of the 155th and the 1st of October, has a lot of communicative flying. And that, obviously, the report that was presented to the Commission of the Syndic, on false indoctrination to the schools, has a lot of political flying, but read the report of the syndic; they make an effort to read, one behind the other the three-hundred plans. And I can assure them that if they were opposition groups, they would find a lot of energy and material to criticize the Government of Catalonia. And if they are parliamentary groups that support the Government of Catalonia, they see that they have to make self-criticism on important issues. So I want to do this before, because, if not, it seems, really, that I don't know what we're talking about, and actually the syndic's report says a lot of things. I'll pass on some of them, and in the end I'll read three conclusions that I value, that I value, that are important. For example, the syndic's report talks about radicalization processes in the case of gihadism and lack of police coordination. Is it a problem, yes or no, that affects Catalonia? Yeah, it looks like it. The syndic's report speaks of the regression of rights, such as those of gathering, expression and manifestation, and the disproportion of the criminal response to political conflicts, with preventive assumptions and effects on the social rights of the financial intervention or the application of 155. Is it, yes or no, a problem with Catalonia? Yes, it is. But the syndic's report talks about a lot of social problems. For example, the implementation of the law and the guaranteed income performance of Catalonia. Is it or is it not a problem with Catalonia? Yes, it is. Tomorrow there is a protest in front of the Parliament of Catalonia. They can assist you, deputies and deputies, because the former ILP promoter's commission on guaranteed income claims its implementation. So tomorrow there's this protest. It also talks, according to the syndic, of aid to dependence, of the problems of urgency to salvation, of the problems of youth guarantee, of the right to housing and of the little collaboration of the great owners of floors and of the necessary and major compromises of the Sareb. Are they in Catalonia's troubles? Yes, they are, they're problems in Catalonia. It also talks about the rights of infants and adolescents, school segregation and unaccompanied minors. I ask, are they in Catalonia's problems? Yes, they're problems in Catalonia, they're on the syndic's report, as it couldn't be any other way. Territories and consumption. We are talking – and I repeat this – about acoustic contamination and odorous contamination, two major problems in the territory that cause many complaints from citizens and citizens. It's Catalonia's problem. There is also talk of promoting the forms of mediation and arbitration, and of seeking alternative systems of out-of-court solutions; therefore, not judicializing all the conflicts that exist in our society. Therefore, it is a problem of Catalonia. It speaks of the Castor case; obviously, a reality. Here we have the President of the Parliament in prison to bring into this chamber a political debate, and a businessman who is said Florentino Pérez, who says the Constitutional Court who has managed us, in one way or another, more than 4,000_million euros, camped on its own; it is a problem in Catalonia, and, therefore, it is also on the syndic's report. [[Greetings.]] Clearly, too. Obviously, transparency issues: regulation of interest groups. Freedom and democratic quality issues: October 1st, but also the vote by post on December 21st. The last elections to the Parliament of Catalonia: thousands and thousands of Catalans living abroad could not vote. It's on the syndic's report because it's a problem in Catalonia. And also, obviously, fears of citizen or prison security, which I will not mention, because they are problems that Catalonia has. Three recommendations the syndic makes, and I'm done with that and I won't run out of my time. I read them because I think they're interesting. And they're debates that we've had in committee or that we've had in plenary. Therefore, the syndic brings another look, another focus of light that can help us, or that can help us and others not, because, obviously, the syndic is position, the syndic's report is position. Says: "The municipalities must provide solutions to conflicts from the implementation of worship centers before it is planted. In the implementation of worship centers, the congregations must act in representation of all the veins, whatever their religious confessionality is. Therefore, a contribution from the syndic's report to intolerance and to the visit of punishment, we might say, or criminalization, before certain religious doctrines. Another conclusion: "The attitude of the funded entities makes it difficult to adopt agreements for the cessation of unoccupied housing to be allocated to the social loguer. Lack of access to suitable housing causes situations of overoccupancy, infrahabitation and untitled occupation. Therefore, a conclusion that I recommend that the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party, which have brought in initiatives on the issue of the occupation of habitats, take into account. And later, and I finish: "The exercise of police coercion must be considered with the full force of phonenal rights, like now the exercise of freedom of expression. Penitentiary action must be governed by the principle of proportionality and must be compatible with respect for human rights, even with those prisoners who are sovereignists. All of us – all of us – have the right to human rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.239.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is then the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the deputy Mr Carles Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.240.0	Thank you, President. Well, from our point of view, unfortunately, we cannot be surprised by this Report of the Syndic of Greuges, because, effectively, the Public Administration in Catalonia, including the governments of the Generality, have full responsibility for the causes that explain most of the problems, the incidences and the complaints that the report of the syndic tells us. Indeed, they maintain a health system with urgency and waiting lists of two speeds, according to the man who comes..., access the public system or access the private system; a private system that, on the other hand, continues to negotiate at the expense of managing public services and resources. They continue to allow denunciations and do not touch any hair to the great speculators of the housing market. They then allow the real estate speculation to move with the tourist speculation, destroying the territory, making the public space uninhabitable and expelling the popular classes from our barrels. By the way, today in Barcelona are multiple denominations. Shame, lords and lords of the Government of the Generality; shame, anger and indignation, a true raison d'être that today the Mossos d'Esquadra have deployed to the city of Barcelona. But let's know that they didn't call the dignity and the struggle that there was in Barcelona today defending the right to housing. Continue to maintain the privileges of large enterprises that manage basic population sub-administrations, such as water, gas, electricity, transport and communications. And today in Catalonia, still, being a woman is to have to suffer more than anyone the effects of retailing. And being young is synonymous with job insecurity. Being an immigrant is to endure institutional racism. And being LGTBIQ is still about discrimination and rape in all spheres of life. And we have to remember, as it goes, that four years ago the adoption of the LGTBI Law, and denounce the total lack of political will to make it effective until the present moment. And, in view of these policies, with full co-responsibility of all the public administrations that have an influence in our country, can we be surprised that the report of the official manifesto syndicate or for the complaints concerning these deficiencies in public policies or its deficient compliment or application? It is a symptom, a new warning about structural and growing inequalities in our society, and about the direct responsibilities of the governments of the State and the Generality in their causes, such as the beginning of my intervention, and also about the lack of capacity and real will at the time of reversing them. We have already proposed this in the proposed general policy debate: a plan against the poor. As long as childhood comes from where it comes from, I get a fair and inclusive deal. That they already expropriate the empty habitats and make them available a public park of habitat for the benefit of the popular classes. Like the equality of men and women in labor relations is a fact. Cal a minimum wage of 1,200_euros to begin to dignify labor relations in this country. It must end already with school concerts, which cause segregation, and a free and universal public education system from bressol to university. That the richest pay more with a social and fair taxation, and that a single network of public health, as well as speculative and extractive attacks on our territory. And for all this it is political will and self-determination to put life at the center and face profound structural transformations in our society. Do you want me to miss the cases that the syndic said he was going to answer? So apply these policies and see immediate results. But before I finish, I would also like to put a special emphasis on some aspects. I would like to deepen a miketa on the issue of habitating. Mirin, like at least, is giving for lost 42,000_million euros of the 56,000 that the State provided to rescue the bank. This in a situation where only in the first quarter of the year CaixaBank won €704_million. To put it in size, year 17 the Autonomous Government allocated only 129 to social housing policies. The bank has been allowed to accumulate 47,000 empty floors only in the Principality, many of which have gone to the hands of returning foundations. It is to say, in accounts of having collected the bank bailout with real estate properties, they have given themselves the money and allowed the bank to make extra cash with the empty floors that it had, and this business of more has made it easier to land in our home of one of the most harmful and aggressive forms and predators of current capitalism, the returning foundations. The progressive policies on housing are totally inadequate. Cal a measure of debó, a measure that responds to popular will and that would demonstrate a true exercise of political and economic sovereignty. That expropriation without compensation of all floors in the hands of the benches and the backs to turn them into public habitation. I also want to place a special emphasis on the chapter that the Synod finally dedicates to the violation of human and democratic rights, which is secular and structural, and practiced for all administrations, on our people and our territories. The law bites, first, and repression against the independence movement, then, in extensions and enlargements because the 78's rule only stood for repression and non-separation of powers, for the judicialization of politics and for the politicization of justice, repression of the civilian population, dissolution of institutions, enterprise and exile of political and social representatives, closure of websites, censorship of communication media, criminalization of protest and dissent. This is the natural of the 78th Regime, organized politically and economically by means of the structures of the Spanish State. The only solution, the democratic break-up mediating self-determination. Discrepem of the Syndic in its consideration of the application of 155. It is not the main cause, the always legitimate disobedience to unjust laws, but the natural anti-democratic of the Spanish State. All in all, we value his proposal for political and non-criminal resolution of the conflict, but the democratic and resolute dialogue, and everyone knows it, would only be possible on the basis of the recognition of the right to self-determination, the freedom of prisoners and prisoners, and the return of exiles and exiles. And that, syndicate, you know it's not possible. There was neither quality nor democratic will in the State to assume it. Today, unilaterality is the only democratic path possible. And finally, we want to compliment the syndicate, the institution of the heavyweight union. Without doubt, an institution that can be valued as excellent, an institution that makes a clear contribution to democratic quality in our country and to improving guarantees in the relationship between public administration and citizens. Thank you, congratulations on your pocket.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.241.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Congresswoman Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.242.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ... many of the considerations that have already been made in previous interventions. This is a late report. This is a report that fulfills the right thing with the obligation of the institution it represents, the syndic of Greuges; but that the person, the physical office that holds it takes advantage for his own interest of part, to continue building a story. I have heard Mr Ribó's speech and I think it has been in the minute one, one and a half, or if not, to extend further, in the two, which was already talking about October 1st, the repression of October 1st. We therefore understand that he remains a political commissioner in his interest. Therefore, this is a report that is not objective and independent, as was the obligation arising from the law itself on the union of weeds. It is therefore a report which discredits the institution. We could and we agree on some of the things that are said in that report, some of the criticisms that are made; but, of course, what surprises us is everything that blatantly obviouss this report, which comes late. Obviously, for example... Mr. Ribó has spoken here extensively about the Castor case, but he has not made a single mention of the bodrian who assumed the contract of Aigues Ter Llobregat. He smiles, if not, that he does not open any drawer of the Generalitat to know what happened and how that recruitment was made. Nor does it mention the transfer of personal data. It seems that the personal data that moved from one place to another, and to know to which companies abroad were sold the personal data of many Catalans..., neither is discussed. Nor is it spoken, for example, in an interested way, I imagine, in the section in this report on complaints about the right to participate – you talk about the elections, you talk about these issues – the manipulation in the public media of Catalonia, TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio. Listen, in an election campaign, two complaints from the People's Party by publishers made in Catalunya Ràdio by journalists from that network gave us the reason that the Central Electoral Board had failed to comply with the neutrality due to the media. You obviously did. And why is that obvious? Because you don't do the work you're entrusted with... – for many years, by the way, maybe too many already and that's made you forget what your obligations are –, independence and objectivity. And that's why I ask again this chamber and the deputies of this chamber... – I did it on the previous occasion, when the syndic came to present his account from October 1st –, I ask again the media of this chamber, since it seems that it does not put at their disposal the office after not complying with the obligations, that we already activate the mechanism to request the resignation of the syndic of pelages, and, in particular, article 14.1.f of the Law itself of the Sindic of Greuges that would allow, given the failure of impartiality, independence and objectivity of the syndic of pelages, to terminate a mandate that no longer represents the whole of the Catalans, that simply discredits the institution and that only serves as an umbrella to continue the independent account and further denigrates the institutions of all the Catalans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.243.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it's the turn, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs Gemma Espigares. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.244.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Councillors, Members, Members, I believe that with this report it is important that we begin by congratulating the team and also the syndic for the work done. It's a report we saw on June 25th to the Board of Trustees. Therefore, they are surprised by this rush that some groups have suddenly said. I don't know if it's ironic or a joke, but when Ciutadans and the PSC come here to tell us that up late – that it's probably true and so we take all the notes so I don't go back to the same – maybe I'll talk to their spokespersons, because the Spokesman's Board didn't just come late, but they asked that you go to your own Ple, that you didn't rush. So, they're a little coherent too, don't come here and tell us something when they're interested in putting it off. I'd say it's a good report, because it follows a methodology, it follows a rigor. It's true that we have things that we don't like, things that we don't like because they're going to get better, and things that we want to be in another way; but, as a minimum, put the elements in the table that we need to study. And the will is to move forward, and it is at the time that 98 percent of the proposals you make are accepted and are better for the Administration. And I think it's an important fact: that 98 percent of the proposals are still accepted means that there is a good will to move forward in all of these proposals and that still leaves room for us to move forward in those that are not. In 2017, Mr Nuet said very well, there are at least two extraordinary facts: the storms of August 17th, brutal facts in this country, which we have never seen, and an excellent work of a part of the Mosso d'Esquadra that, even though some of them were stunned, they were able to do. And I think there is the committee that has to investigate the storms, and what we have to do is leave it to the committee to draw its own conclusions, citing the coordination and recognition that the body needs, with the CITCO, also with international bodies, with Europol, but let the committee work. And the other glaring violation of rights is October 1st, and it's the pre-emptive detention we've had these last few months; a brutal repression of the state that we were also able to discuss last week in plenary. I think it is true that when some Members give us before the previous point, in fact: "We do not agree at all. And as long as you don't! But when you hear about five tones and about five proposals, and when you hear about what criticisms of political commissari, of contempt, of "ply now and, if not, we will bring you a motion of censure, when you see that saying: "No 300, no, 366 pages of report, and you only have to look for it to find the deep links, say..., well. Then, we ask for plenary sessions to talk about coexistence, but we end up talking about everything less about coexistence. We ask for reports from the syndic to talk about salvation, to talk about universities, to talk about social issues, and we end up talking about the deep links or even everything you don't know about. We want reports to measure, which is obvious that it cannot be done, and that more can be done, if not, then, nothing happens, we ask the syndicate to pray already and that another one will come... But, total, the one who comes after them will not please them either. If we can make this clear now. In the end, you said you were making a statement to the totality, to the report. Actually, he already told the board. I had a doubt as to whether I would repeat it or not today. Look, the only thing you guys do is the democratic quality. That's the only thing you guys do to totality. And two more things, or at least one, because the report speaks a little, speaks a little from the Franco symbols, but when Mr. Carrizosa told my companion this morning, "What's it telling me! , yes, yes..., you tell him. If not, go ask Lleida's governors, huh? - You know Lleida, huh? , we've got a little bit to go, but they're up for it, and I'm going to ask how they support a socialist mayor so he doesn't pass a "franchised street puncher" of Lleida. [[Greetings.]] Mirin, let's talk about the social emphasis of this report, the important part that this report has on the whole social issue. A few days ago a good companion told me: "Look, Parliament is not going to go to parliament, it is going to make political slogans. So let's just leave the political slogans for a while and talk about social issues. We are talking about health: we are talking about health to talk about the full list of waiting lists that the syndic quotes in this report, and about how 2017 57_million euros– 57_million euros– helped lower the number of people waiting on waiting lists, lower the time, do more than thirty_ thousand surgical interventions that helped in all this, and also helped lower the diagnostics, and the first visit to the specialist, and many things that we were discussing with the proposal of waiting list law. It's true that this whole plan couldn't solve everything, and it was more temporary. And this decree that we will present to the generation, and which has been announced and which is granted with the commons is what must also help us to put more order in these waiting lists, not only in the first place – which I say so many times as ever: it must be the gateway to the health system – but also to help that most vulnerable people, who are more aware of health issues. There were also EUR 17.8 million in addition to emergency assistance. And she's also talking about the emergency report and how the Plan can also help us not to have it again..., with the biggest influenza epidemic campaign we've had in the past year, that this year can bring us a plan that prevents us from some of the situations that we've encountered. He also speaks of the Law of Universalization of Salvation. We talked a lot to the Commission of the Syndic, with the Special Report on the Universalization of Salvation, but, as a minimum, let's let's call it what we've already talked about, which is that the PSOE finally withdrew the appeal from the Constitutional Court and, therefore, we re-enforce a law of universalization of salvation so as not to let anyone out. And that's not enough, and we're aware of that. And that's why we ask the government to take into account also, in the assumptions of this necessary investment in salvation, not only in everything, not only in investments, which, obviously, are welcome whenever they come, but especially in technology, in research, in everything that professionals have. And with this I welcome the agreement reached today by the unions and the government, for the Siscat, because with the concerted health centres the appropriate collection is approved, which must help us to improve these salaries, and a job that the government has done and that we have not heard of in the other groups either. So let's move forward; let's move forward on social issues, and let's move forward on health issues, also for professionals. But, I said, reversal is not just in all this, but it's a good government and it's for the promotion of salvation, because it's only investing in preventing and promoting salvation that we won't have to invest in after-expenditure to cure what we can't predict before. He talks about many other things, the report, he talks about transparency, about the significant adventures that have taken place with the approval of the code of conduct, with the registers of the interest groups. It is true that we have made a great deal of progress in relation to the number of interest groups that had registered there. It is also true that this is not the work of the government, it is the work of all that we continue to advance. Therefore, another thing of the recommendations made by the syndicate that we have to note. We talk about housing and compromise to increase the social park. And not only commitments, but we are talking about facts, and we are talking, in the last two years, about more than a thousand social habitats, 44_millions that the Government of the Government of Catalonia has put, with the award of more than 1,150 habitats for people in emergency situations, for more than sixty_ thousand families. This is not just about commitments, which we also have to do, but about facts, which we have already completed. In the case of Interior, this is not just the moments of August 17 that he spoke to him, but the narcopies to Raval, with coordination with the Barcelona Assembly. The protocol to prevent radicalization. Many of the recommendations that you made in 2017 and that are already working or have already been done. Also with work and social afers. He was talking about delays, he was talking about youth, he was talking about unaccompanied minors, but also about guaranteed income, child protection, youth guarantee. To put them also some data: Opportunity program, 211_million euros, improving in three_ thousand young; singular program, 30_million euros for more than five_ thousand young; practices for young people, 15_million euros, 1,400 people. Overall, almost deu_mil joves [[remorse of the voice]] They've seen a better opportunity with this warranty program. We talk about education, as a tool that can help us in social cohesion to reduce segregation – that the report also talks about it, and that is also working – for inclusive school, for day care, but also for universities. This morning someone said to us: "Five million euros that can be used to donate 2,500 university scholarships. I don't know what to count college scholarships for, huh? Because paying the university is a lot more than paying the fee, it's living, it's moving, it's many more things. But all the same, counting that for you it's this price you have. If we take the 87_million euros that the pylons cost us, do you know how many beaks we could do? First, to keep them transferred, that there are many sensations of the Constitutional Court that give them to us; more than forty-thousand people, « inclusive piolins and some of the Catalans who cannot go to university because there are these moneys that we have spent on other things. And, look, by the way, he's also talking about the parity report, equal opportunities, not just with the other bodies and the government. In this government we already have more general secrets than secretaries, so we are moving forward. The Government of Spain, too, last time, had many more ministers than it had ever had. But that doesn't just mean that there are more women in high places, that also, that goes by training, that goes by the feminization of institutions, and that there is also support for the unit of full attention to sexual assaults, that today the councilwoman was denouncing, and that comes out with news that every day – every day – there is a woman who suffers from sexual assault, and that's not just money, that we can't tolerate. [[Greetings.]] I'm done. It said that many of these problems are solved with money, others, no; if not, not all of them. It's clear that some social assumptions, and the last ones were. 75_percent of the expenditure did not finance the assumptions of 2017 were for social expenditure; 1,355_million additional euros, therefore, we need this social expenditure to follow, it is reflected in the assumptions. But not just that. Esquerra is not just here to approve social assumptions, which obviously also. The president of Ómnium Cultural, yesterday, in an act, Marcel Mauri posed there and said "four hundred nits to the prison – four hundred nits to the prison – " that my prison is worth it. What's worth it is that we move on to democratic rights, we move on to a republic. But let's move forward because this republic has to be social, and socially fairer. And if there are any things we can do to them now, we don't have to wait for them later. And this means that we are moving forward with a few assumptions where there are lower taxes, that there are some scholarships that actually allow us to go to university, that the primary care, really, has the money that we need to be able to do the prevention and promotion work that we need, that we return all the payments to the workers who need it, and that is what we have to find is that on the 2018 report..., in 2018 we will probably still talk about repression, we will still talk about preventive detention, as at least in 2019, the cases of social problems that we have encountered are much less than they are now. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.245.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Antoni Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.246.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies, Syndicates, Welcome once more to the plenary room, and the team that accompanies you. In the first place, I want to begin by congratulating the syndic's institution for the work done in this report, for the 2017 activity, technically very rigorous, very professional and very fair, and very detailed. And in fact it brings us a valuable tool of analysis, of proposal and also of knowledge of what has been 2017. Up late, up late? I don't know. For the dates, we made the 2017 report, so, almost at the end of the year. Therefore, obviously, in this aspect up late, but at the beginning of the mandate we had, therefore, all the reports of the syndic damont of the table. Some have already dealt with themselves in committee, others in this House. So the syndic's activity is up to date, huh? So, if we're dealing with this report a little while ago, it's not because we don't... the agenda we promoted from the committee in another way, is it? The 2017 report gives us a precise strength thermometer of the state of the democratic quality of the country, of the deficits of public services and of the violation of personal rights and collectivities. I of the emerging concerns of the citizenry about various areas of everyday life. Now, this 2017 report, it hasn't been a year at all. The syndic's activity was significantly increased by events that occurred during this year. This report has two great asides, which refers to activity, we could say, more ordinarily, sectorial of the country and of the events that occurred exceptionally, so, last year, right? Therefore, the syndic's activity obviously had to address all these issues. The year 2017, surely, for the events that have taken place, will become a year, it is a very exceptional year, it has been a very exceptional year and it will become a year before and after in the political life of this country, of Catalonia and also of the State. The same report treats these fets as those of the country suffocation. It is obvious that of the last reports made by the syndicate, in the words of his equanimity, therefore, do not follow the taste of everyone. It is obvious that this is so, basically, for the issues of the most national area, for which 2017 has happened in the national area they do not like the Ciutadans bench, obviously. In some respects we may not even like some of these reports. The Ciutadans Group commented at the time that it would even make an international campaign to denounce the syndic's bias. I don't know if this campaign has taken place, if it hasn't, but in any case, we'd like to know what impact this event has had at European level, right? I thought the report had two big asides. He's referred to a lot of them. One is the most ordinary aspects, the most social aspects, which refer to a multitude of aspects, isn't it? The report says that the worst of the economic crisis seems to lie behind. That would be questionable. Obviously, the crisis we have suffered is very structural and the consequences are very important. In this sense, we suffer from a huge vulnerability in many families, which also stands out some side of the syndic; an increase in the poor with symptoms of chronification; an important demand for social assistance, with deficiencies in hospital emergencies; a growing demand for affordable housing; social services in some saturated aspects; attention to the dependence that demands more resources; a demographic trend in aging that calls for prevention to the needy present and future; in alert to school segregation and the poor child; the difficulties of young people to find work. These are some of the aspects of social responsibility, therefore, that this report detail us. And, as the syndic also used to say, not only does he diagnose complaints but he also suggests proposals and alternatives that the government in good faith and, as has also been said, many of these proposals are taken over by the same government. The syndic has mentioned a theme, respecting the Castor theme, saying that the Parliament has not answered, let's say, this question. In any case, let me say, syndicate, that I detail the activity that this Parliament has done with respect to this issue. On 29 September 2014, the Parliament filed an unconstitutionality appeal with the Constitutional Court. This appeal, of course, was the motive for which, on 21st December 2017, many years later, the Constitutional Court certainly partially esteemed it. On the 8th of February of this year, the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya asked the Bureau to address the demand for its execution. This demand is already processed, but it is about to be accepted. It must be that they do not have to run very quickly, these 1,300_million euros of public money that must be reversed to the benefit of the citizenry. So, syndicate, this aspect, so, I think it was good that the dye present, that in any case this Parliament has been in the case, let's say, of the Castor theme. In addition, a commission of inquiry has been set up to investigate what has happened on the Castor issue and to extricate responsibilities. All the social part of the 2017 Syndic Report represents one_third of which are the expedients that the syndic has dealt with during the 2017 fiscal year. There are all the territorial themes, environmental, mobility, transparency, the topic of the contaminations of sorolls, odors– of the bad smells–..., therefore, all the themes linked to the territorial level. But I want to put the emphasis on the fact that a third party, which, moreover, is a supporter of this percentage of social expedients a year later..., is very important. In this sense, I want to make a reading of what..., a look – a look – that did not respect the syndic's report. When I read the report, which is, in fact, very full, three-hundred and sixty-sixteen, say, that there are many expedients, that is very well detailed, a fact that the country has many reptes to address, that it needs power, it needs skills, it needs resources to attend to the needs that citizens have today. The following part of the Syndic Report referring to the events of 2017 linked to the events of '1 October, in good part are the consequence of this. I'll explain. A few years ago, the governments of the Generality have already found that the State of Catalonia was insufficient to meet the challenges of the country, and in this sense already President Maragall at the time, when he was president of the Generality, promoted, with the groups that accompanied him to the Government, and also opposition, the reform of the State, precisely to equip the country with more skills, more resources and more political power. That was a locked door. Later, the year 2012, President Mas promoted, tries to negotiate the tax pact. That was also a locked door. Later, the repeated proposals of the presidents Mas and Puigdemont, claiming the list of obligations of the government with Catalonia, this was also a locked door. You can't lock all the doors when you're close, from years ago, dialog and negotiation, because then the problem is due to monumental dimensions and social indignation grows unabated. This is the origin of the conflict. It is not an identity issue, it is a need to give an answer to the needs of our country's citizens. The facts that were produced in 2017 are a good part of this, to have found all the doors closed. Parliament's plenary was looking for exits, Parliament's plenary on 6 and 7 September, with a report that the syndic, therefore, qualifies, that there was disobedience and that what it was trying to find is an attempt to find a political and democratic exit from the legitimacy of parliamentary sovereignty, from electoral compromise and Catalan legality, after having found that all the doors of the dialogue were repeatedly closed. Later, another of the events, therefore, of the October of the year passed, in this case, of September, the beginning of the escalation of repression against the celebration of the referendum, which provokes the social indignation that required the intervention of the social leaders, by Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, to channel peacefully the manifestation of the social indignation of the people. What a contrast it is to find in prison for these fets. The celebration of the October 1st referendum, with the enormous violence exercised by the police of the State, which will remain in memory of much more forever. The application of Article 155 of the Constitution, an authentic institutional repression, and a coup d'état, of dubious legality, still pending the response of resources made for Parliament and for the party of Podemos. The consequences of 155 still to know with precision, and an investigation commission that has recently been set up. I, the application of the Criminal Code to social and political leaders, no more or less than accused of rebellion and sedition, a disproportionate amount that only comes from a politically revenging attitude. What guarantees today can we hold of a fair trial, attentive to the last facts of the Marchena case? Of these aspects, it also refers to the report. And the syndic also points out a way out, which is the way out of the dialog. This is a political cause that can only be addressed from the space of politics. The syndic has the right costume to make these suggestions. And, in this case, these aspects of the country's last year's suffocation... – "suffocated country, as mentioned in the report – the fate proposed by the syndicate is dialog, dialog and dialog. The hand has always been, and persists, as President Puigdemont and President Torra have repeatedly said. There are no good receipts without good diagnostics. And the diagnosis is to recognize reality. To start this dialog, we must recognize that today there are more than two million people who want Catalonia to be an independent state in the form of a republic. And, according to the queries, around 80 percent want this question to be resolved by voting. How does the State respond to this question? Not with dialect, but with repression, using force: the police and the prison. And so it goes from the back door every time the country has asked for more skills and resources, to the back door, displaying the darkest, most authoritative and repressive face, undertaking, suppressing speech rights such as expression, like manifestation, provoking a regression of speech rights, and putting the king as a threatening principle. The State has a dialect, the State has a democracy, the State has a Catalan opinion. We are for the dialog, yes, as the report says, the dialog, but it is difficult if the accountant is not set to zero; if the criminal case against the defendants is not closed; if prisoners are not released and exiles can return home. It has to start from the recognition of the problem with its real festivity to negotiate a self-determination reference. This is the dialog that can give us a way out of the conflict. And what you think of other alternatives to Catalonia's independence, seduce us, place us in a fight of ideas, proposals, alternatives, a democratic and peaceful fight with the timing of a referendum. This...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.247.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.248.0	...the facts of the country suffocation that make reference to this question have been solely and exclusively to seek a way out that gives the country more power...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.249.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.250.0	...more skills and resources to solve precisely the problems that Catalonia has. So, it's about this question that we've...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.251.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.252.0	Yeah, I'm done, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.253.0	[[The President laughs.]] Time's up, Congressman. [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]] Thank you, Congressman. It's the syndic's turn now, again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.254.0	Thank you, President. Two very quick procedural questions. The calendar is set by you, and the calendar is set by the Board of Spokesmen, both the months of the commissions as the Board of Spokesmen for the plenary, so on the day that you call this institution, be here, as it is in the order of the day that you agree. If so, discuss between you what can happen with the sequences of debates. And another procedural question, which I'd like to see if we can finally clarify: the trustee's mandate? So, look, you can put in all the epithets that you want, that they like very much to remember an epithet, that I no longer'remembered, of them, since the Via Laietana, the fixa of the greys in the middle of the dictatorship..., I said, my fixa, said "Separatist red, eh? I had already forgotten about "separatist" – and so much! [[Greetings.]] But, leaving the band epithets. The mandate has some norms and regulations, as Mrs Levi recalled: 2004, all the groups, plus the most separatists, seem to be, from the chamber, which are here before me, voted for me; 2010, all, unanimously. Now, there's a mechanism... – Mrs. Levi has argued it–, listen'm, three_five parts of the chamber, as are the necessary ones to name, can be named with a debate. That's why we're here, it's the procedure. And now, you don't give another time back to this. But every one that I remembered on his day what kind of warrant he did and, moreover, with what content, that I will now refer to. They have once again returned to the debate on the three reports – not one, three –: April 2017, November 17th May 18th, which are being debated in this chamber. One isn't so many days ago, right here. Let's go back to it. Often, in the interventions I have heard, they have not understood the analysis of what has happened with all social, territorial, consumer rights, etc., 2017. Let's go back: three reports. I know they've been discussing historical memory things before, with another question they've had. They agree, or not, with what the United Nations report says, the last, by Mr. De Grieff, about historical memory in Spain. I don't know if he's out on his own. Will we complete it? Not the syndic's, huh? The syndic doesn't say it, which, of course, is partial. But is the United Nations and Mr. De Grieff partial? Mr. De Grieff said it on behalf of the entire United Nations fan. Will we complete it? It's about to be completed, huh? Are you in favour or not of following what the Greek said, that Spain was to go very far until justice was played out? The syndic doesn't say it, the Greek says it. I know there's some kind of group that says it there, and here they say it's partial, because I'm saying it here. Here's what I'm surprised at: or so it turns out that the Greek says it, you don't say it, surely because the Greek says it..., it's about to complete, huh? Of eleven resolutions, there are not enough to start and five, in part, start. But not this one. As you see with the show that we are watching at these times. I suppose we all agree on this question that the Greek says, but if the syndic says so, then it turns out to be partial. Or the concrete mechanisms that the syndic, in this report, precisely, apart from the three, that go in full..., in this report in concrete, pages..., from page 9, which is the proleg, and 10, and after the continuation focuses on the proleg and in a concrete distance again to speak of the illegalities eaten in this chamber, of the unconstitutionalities, of its suspensions and is in this, which is not dedicated to this thing, because there have been three dedicated to this subject. But now I'm going into the 2017 Report, which is what we'll need to look at even more when we get back to 2018, because it's been going on a long way..., of the three reports that I'm talking about, everything they contain, they can already do the exercises that they want, disarrayedly, we have many years to get to our society to talk to us. And when I tell society, I don't just say Catalonia, huh? There is a key that affects the whole of the Spanish State, and disjointedly, because of the lack of policy to address this problem, we will trigare generations to seriously address this issue. And I'm closing the issue. Mirin, we have submitted many reports that are, develop and specify what is in this: on LGTBI, there is one monogram; as on gender equality; on childhood, there are two, on the 17th, apart from all the actions of offices and resolutions. One, the one who sees mandate by law – and legal – of the Geneva Commission, and, another, about the agreement that even was carried, by demand..., to add to the United Nations ; that, in order to provoke, forgive, a certain pride in all of us – that the United Nations incorporates it into its report – turns out to be ignored. As a child, there is the abundance of elements, in this report, in the band of specific: social problems, territorial problems... O sigui, problematic..., da manen? They are not invented by the syndic and its collaborators: they emanate from the sixty-thousand and they escape people who in 2017 approached the syndic, and they trusted the syndic's institution. They have raised their complaints and it turns out that we can give an index every time higher resolution of these rights problems. And, moreover, we have done so in the most transparent way possible on time. Talk about the ATLL and what we said about the ATLL. ATLL is a 2012 agreement, which is declared void by the Court of Justice in 2015. We are talking about the 2017 Report. That's to say, it's that in the end we go to prehistory to go and look for what are the elements that can be argued about, not what we've already discussed in committee. I about Territori, so obviously there are attacks, and we'll talk about it. On 3rd December there is a panel session of the trustee to give a report on this, or, likewise, on 26th November I was asked to compare myself to the panel of the Castor, and to connect with all the things I have referred to about the Constitutional judgment. I want to reflect very, very directly on the Ciutadans Group. You, your spokespersons, constantly repeat arguments that are based either on ignorance or falsehood. And they repeat them constantly. It's a matter of fact. It's the same, let's go back to it. Another argument has been repeated today that has already been answered. Some of them, either are based on ignorance or are based on falsehood. And I'll give them a stark example, easy to prove. "You, syndicate, have eventuals. And even as they have not said, as someone has said in public statements, that I have servants; not of the levee, but I have servants—servants, eh? – I make the translation to the català. The law obliges all defenders to eventually contract their advisors. There is an institution that defends the people of a community in Ciutadans donated the majority of parliament to the Government, that the hundred_per_cent of its workers are possible – the hundred_per_cent. Imagine 'hovostès'. And that's what they need to know. There aren't any others, are there? And there's some I can't tell you because they don't publish it. The syndic does guarantee that until the last detail they have, from eight years ago, long before the Law of Transparency, on our website. There are some institutions that I can't give them to because they don't publish them, and you know it. But let's go back to it: "You are the one who has the most eventual of the world. This is the third time I've told them: "We're easy to prove. It's as easy as entering the web, of those who find it, that they won't find it; ask it, if any, that they have mechanisms to ask it, and they'll know it. But why do I tell them? Because we work – and when we say it's the syndic's group of people, who have a few of us here – very, very fluidly and very fruitfully, with many members and many members of Ciutadans. And we give all the information you ask, and they help us raise our problems constantly, many years ago. What do you see now, suddenly and again, this block invalidation? This will to erode an institution? Don't they know they're eroding the institution? They have made a distribution, they have announced it, and Mr Rodriguez should know that yes, his group has distributed throughout Europe a letter to all the defenders of Europe, which you have read, which I too would have been able to get to – to me too would have been able to get to – but they should also have informed him that the world president of the Ombudsman, the highest authority in the world on behalf of the defenders, has replied to their highest authorities I, know what you say to them? Apart from reminding them that Mr Ribó is the president of the European Region – I suppose this is my English to be at home; now that I translate them from the English, because it's a little longer, because it's a little longer, "we're particularly well-educated to ensure the independence of all our members, and ask them, – ask the two of them to write it, the two highest authorities of their group – "they ask them – that, certainly, I'm sorry that they don't follow – "respectfully that they have a lot of regard to avoid taking action or commenting that they may have the effect of threatening the independence of the syndicate. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.255.0	Thank you very much, syndic. As long as the syndic has opened up words, if the groups have an interest in intervening, we'll open a turn. I understand you don't? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, when you want, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.256.0	Thank you, President. Senyor sindic, let's see..., I've heard, well, I've found it very curious that most groups, which seems to be now giving you support, which are the CUP, Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya, tell you that you are equal. Well, I have to tell you that when you're told that it's equal, that you don't believe it, you don't believe it much. Because, in fact, what they mean is that he does it very well, but he does it very well for his interests, not for the Catalans as a whole. Then again, let's see, what I'm asking you to do is that..., and I'm asking you clearly, is to resign, because what you've done is pervert the institution. You are acting as a political commissioner within this institution. Moreover, there are even citizens... – today we have received it – there are citizens who have to go to the defender of the people because you do not protect them in their rights, such as, for example, the issue of yellow bonds. I would like to remind you that the freedom of expression of people in public facilities has a limit on the principle of ideological neutrality, which you seem to forget, of the public authorities, which are not political parties or entities of civil society, and which is based on the citizens who come to it: hospitals, police facilities, financial delegations and a longetcetera. Then we also found it curious that all the groups have asked us instead of asking the syndic, making him a series..., asking him questions, telling him if he's going to open any files..., no, on the contrary, it seems that the object was Ciutadans, isn't it? Well, of course, we are going to answer those questions. To Mr Nuet, that is to say you do not speak about the 6th and 7th of September, that is, I think it is important to read the syndic's report and you will see that the 6th and 7th of September... By the way, your group was also on the 6th and 7th of September. You were here, and democracy was hit, and you know it, and you haven't said anything about it. That's why I also think it's interesting to read the Syndic's report, because you were even talking about fourteen years where you don't talk about Convergence corruption, where there have been opaque contracts and where there have been 3_per_cent bites. That doesn't interest the syndic. Nor is he interested in Aigües Ter Llobregat, it seems that it is a very old theme. But, of course, Castor case is 2014 and Aigues Ter Llobregat 2015. Maybe we should remember a little bit in the past. To the spokesman of Esquerra, let's see, as far as Lleida is concerned... do you know what's going on? There is an agreement between Citizens and the government team, but so that the public space is free of yellow ideology, just for that. Okay? So, don't come and tell lies, and if you say... then, well, come and try it. And if judicial rulings were also respected, we would not have a fugitive from justice who refused to call off an illegal referendum, imposed after a coup against democracy on 6 and 7 September, the state would not have needed to spend a single euro on defending the Constitution in Catalonia. That's for sure. More than that. To the spokesperson for Junts per Cat... well, international campaign, call as you please. We basically sent them a letter telling them the truth. In the face of lying, we tell the truth. Just explain truths like fists. Well, basically, we have a heavyweight syndic lined up with the separatist parties. It's a fact. That, in addition, stood out in the face of a blow to democracy. He hasn't explained the 6th and 7th of September, and he still doesn't. Moreover, it has not made objective reports, both by action and by omission. And, obviously, what we said before: it perverts the institution. And in relation to his last intervention, also remind him that according to the last survey of the Gesop, he says that 42_per_cent of Catalans would be in favor of that hypothetical referendum, not the 80, do not lie, okay? at least based on objective data. They repeat false arguments, either out of ignorance or because they really believe that... well, they want to deceive people. As for the syndic, a 35_per_cent of eventuals..., I doubt very much that the law, the truth, a 35_per_cent seems a little exaggerated to me. Then more stuff. As for your report, they were talking about acting ex officio by a tweet that you considered Catalanophobic, weren't they? Well, what we did is a detail of all the performances you didn't open. For example, when they attacked two girls from the platform« Barcelona with the Selection by radical independenceists, and they stopped two people in March 2017; you did not open anything. Also the xenophobic tweets, racist, in which they are colonists to the majority of Catalans that we have roots in the rest of Spain; neither opened any action. Then, neither in the articles of the most honorable president where he called us « mad beasts» – either. From the statements of non-grateful people, those who think differently, to the leader of the opposition in Catalonia; neither did he open anything. From stone attacks to private homes, painted on vehicles, letters with death threats to councillors, or simply by thinking differently. You didn't do anything. Nor, of the occupation of public spaces with independence symbolism in public institutions and public space. I'll show you the letter. We have to go to the people's defender. By the way, he's going to act of his own accord. Nor from the violation of linguistic rights to those parents who want to school their children in Spanish; nor has he done anything. Well, for example, Lluís Llach's statements when he was referring to public officials. I don't know if you remember, the express threats to officials, or the political strike on October 3, 2017, in which millions of Catalans couldn't go to their work center or go to schools simply because there were people occupying the streets and roads. And seeing that you haven't answered your questions, I'm curious to ask you if you knew Puigdemont was going to betray Junqueras on the night of October 29. Did you know I was going to betray him? Or even, what opinion do you deserve that the defender of the people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.257.0	This is to talk about the 2017 Greuges Syndic Report. I would ask you to focus on your intervention in which you correspond. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.258.0	Excuse me, President, we're talking about the things you haven't reported in your report, they're objective facts that happened during 2017, and they're basically confirmations. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.259.0	They ask you to focus on the report, Congressman. I understand that you have alluded to it and, therefore, want to respond; but in any case, you focus your intervention on the syndic's report, which is the subject of this. Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.260.0	Thank you, Mr. President. And then, too, what opinion does he deserve that a defender of the people, prior to a coup d'état to democracy, would have met with those who produced it? I mean, specifically, day 22-F. How do you feel about the people's defender meeting with these gentlemen on 22nd F? We already know the answer: you do not represent the majority of Catalans, act as you please and act as one more political party. For that reason, when the separatist parties tell you that you are equal, do not believe it. Do me a favor and resign. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.261.0	It's coming back now... [[The President of the Generalitat asks for the word.]] Anyway, after the debate, president, at the end of the debate... [[Funnel veils]] , at the end of the debate, President. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mr Nuet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.262.0	Yes, thank you, President. Just to aim, briefly. In the first place, which read the report of the syndic... – another thing is that there may be people who don't read, and that, well, there's no solution, we can't fix it here–, which read the report of the syndic knows that it talks about the days of September 6th and 7th of the year 2017, and that qualifies these days as a difficult constitutional alteration. This is on the syndic's report. Now, according to the syndic, Mr. MP, there is also that the state's criminal response cannot violate the fundamental rights. And that's what you don't like, that's what they don't like. [[Greetings.]] And you know... and you know, Mr. Congressman, why don't you like them? Because you guys are more and more the game every day...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.263.0	Deputy, I'm asking you to focus on talking about...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.264.0	...or the parliamentary group of 'all in prison.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.265.0	Mr. Nuet, Mr. Nuet... [[Greetings.]] They ask, in fact, for this reason, that if they intervene they focus on the report, they do not question each other, because, if not, we are diverting the debate. The deputy has already made the complaint, Mr Nuet has made it now. If you want to intervene and focus on the report, perfect, if not, do not come between you. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. Gifts of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Neither? [[Pause.]] The Republican Parliamentary Group?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.266.0	Just to reiterate what we have seen before: zero_per_cent proposals, one hundred complaints, one hundred_per_cent monotheme, zero social issues. That's the report. The report talks about social issues and talks about everything else. And what I'm asking is that the next report, 2018, we focus on the rest. And for the inquiry, President, I understand that you will give me the word at the end, because you have made personal remarks to me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.267.0	Yes, in the end we will, if they wish, allusions. All right, so let's finish the debate here. The president had asked me for allusions, and then Mrs. Espigares. Forward, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.268.0	For allusions, President. Because I think that you also met with the representatives of the groups, precisely, to ask that there be institutional respect in this chamber, which sincerely in this intervention, this last intervention, I have not seen in place, this institutional respect, neither with the sign of hardship nor with the rest of the groups, and, if I may, in my name. Therefore, I pray you that the insults that have been said, according to the meeting that you held, therefore, that you are not allowed these insults in this chamber, eh? Thank you. [[Greetings. Gemma Espigares Tribó asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.269.0	Mrs. Spigares... I remind you, I remind you that what we set up at this meeting, and as far as the last Plethora had gone, is that we would not allow ourselves to get to personal insult, to personal disqualification. That everyone could put up with freedom of speech... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The freedom of expression has to see what I can talk to now and express myself, Members. That we proposed that, obviously, any parliamentary group could intervene with its own plans, whatever they were, from the Faristol or from any other moment and point of debate in this Chamber; that the line we would never pass was that of personal insult and personal disqualification. You know perfectly well, because it's what we set up at this meeting, and it's also the responsibility of the groups, not only to respect what the Rules and Code of Conduct say, but also to what all the groups were involved in this meeting. Say, Mrs. Spigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.270.0	Thank you, President. Just because he told me if he didn't know what he had in Lleida. I know perfectly well: Lleida is the pact of shame between what remains of the Socialist Party and Ciutadans. [[Widow's remorse.]] And I remember them, for what it's not clear, huh? : Carrer en Carmelo Fenech, Joan Manuel Nadal i Gaya, Mayor Sangenís, Mayor Mountain..., I could make a very long list of everything that remains. The Frankish streets are not classified and between four; the Frankish streets are eradicated. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.271.0	All right. Finish... [[Manuel Rodríguez de l'Hotellerie de Fallois asked to speak.]] Tell me, Congressman. Why ask me the word? What are the specific references?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.272.0	Personal, directly, of Mr. Nuet, and also of Mrs. Espigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.273.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.274.0	Well, in relation to Mr. Nuet, you referred to us as the first opposition party, and Mr. Ribó came and didn't say anything at all, just a massage. You acted like the syndic's syndic. That's all. To Mrs Espigares, comment to her that, well, what is a pact that there is because there is political neutrality in the streets of Lleida [[Funnel veils]] , and, obviously, the Law of Historical Memory is complete. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.275.0	Thank you. Thank the syndic and his team, as always, for their intervention and presence here. [[Question to the Government on the Government's external action]] [[300-00043/12]] We follow the order the day. The next point is the question to the Government on the external action of the Generality, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The inquiry was made by Mr. Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.276.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, first of all, I don't know if I'm wrong or not, but, Mr. Maragall, it's likely that it's the last time we've had a debate in this legislature; therefore, to wish them all the fate of the world, not electoral, but personal, in which I have to face them in my own ways. That said, also tell him that you are the last representative of an absolutely erroneous policy that, in our view, has brought contempt to Catalonia, instead of promoting it in the world. We must bear in mind that the year 2015 is a decision to reformulate all our foreign policy with a department of foreigners destined, as it was a while ago, not to promote Catalonia, but, essentially, to discredit Spain, which are radically different things, and which has given us episodes of all kinds at the length of these three years: episodes of fake news, of strange relations... Some day we explained it in some way that this prestige that we, internationally, have been able to associate with figures like in Gasòliba, in Guardans, etc., that were able to bridge with the best of European democracies..., now the reality is that it is in Europe, basically, that it is inexpressible, that it is inexpressible, inexpressible, inexpressible, inexpressible, inexpressible, inexpressible, inexpressible way. By the end of this type of policy, you have designed instruments that have, in short, become absolutely sterile, but that have cost us a lot of money. First, they decided that the name was to be "Afers Exterior", making it see that Catalonia was already an independent state; the name, obviously, it had to be changed. Then they told Mr. Romeva "Minister, they also saw something that was not real and that gave some spectacle internationally, in terms of protocol·laris, or even on some British television, with an episode remembered for everyone. Later, they passed an external action law which, of course, had a short appeal, but which they had in the names of 'the embassies', a few names 'the embassies which no one internationally treated as such. In short, some sterilized actions, but they cost a lot of money. What was the tangible result of all this policy? So the result was zero international recognitions after October 27, in one of the most cherished political operations, but at once ruinous, of the history of contemporary European politics. Then came Article 155, which clearly does not please them to feel what I will say, but it tried to put order and common sense and to recover the internationalization of the Catalan economy, tourism and culture, as well as the fundamentals of our external action, which is what dictates the common sense, instead of spending money on the actions that I have just done. Later on, with the entry of the current government of Catalonia, it was decided to reopen the Diplomacy, but it was decided to reopen the Diplomacy in order to carry out investigations by misuse of funds in some actions that are not strictly all related to the process, but that some could be considered directly of pure and harsh corruption, and, instead of trying to clean up responsibilities over what had passed, you decided to insist on the error and somehow whitewash and clean up corrupt practices and absolutely lack of ethics in the previous stage of Diplomacy. And they decided to get back the question from the delegations. Here you see the first question I put to you in this question; that is to say, they have not opened a few, they have announced that they will open a few more, we can imagine what it will be devoted to, but I would like, therefore, to develop in their parliament the strategy and, above all, if they intend to do the same as they had done in the previous stage, because we already know perfectly well where they are headed. The second fundamental element of this question is the presentation of the Europe Plan – of the Europe Plan. And here's where I'm going to connect with the idea that in the beginning of the intervention I was asking you about these dangerous friendships that you've had in the past few years and that you've despised an image of Catalan external action, that you've had a huge prestige historically. Because you, in the same presentation, talked about two basic axes of Europe, on Tuesday. The first is curious, because they talk about fighting the image, you say, "the error that the current government of Catalonia associates with populism and anti-European movement. That is to say, you yourselves are aware that we are right, that right now the rest of Europe have this image of us. And that's solely your fault, because they decided to push these types of policies, they decided to have these dangerous friendships, they decided to meet and take pictures of each house in Europe – the worst of each house. It is normal that they are now concerned about the image we have in Europe. And the second question, a _second example in its Europe plan is to get back Catalonia's presence in the European Commission, effectively. Since the year 2013 the European Commission has not repre sent a president of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Five years ago; curiously coincides with the separatist process. And I ask myself: have they not thought that perhaps, instead of making a new Europe plan, the best would be to accept that all they did before was a real disaster and brought us to disdain? It has not been agreed that the best possible Europe is precisely to renounce its strategy since the year 2015, and then it is possible for us to regain the prestige that we have lost again, is it possible for us to stop associating with populism and anti-European movement and is it possible for the European Commission to come back to us? In short – and with this end – the separatist process, in terms of external action, has assumed for Catalonia less Europe, more populism in Catalonia and more contempt. Give it up for good, Mr. Counselor. It is then that we can really return to Europe and recover what our historical singleness had been about the European movement, which, indeed – I insist on this – had been absolutely impeccable for many decades. These set out the basic elements on which we would later develop a motion for the proper plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.277.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.278.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Alejandro Fernández, for your intervention and all, because at least..., in other words, it has remained, different from other things that we have been able to hear today very often, from the realm of political criticism, right? Of course, a political criticism I believe that if we break it down, we will see a very small detail..., it is absolutely unfounded and without any element or approach to reality or just respect for the data and the information that you have yourself, right? And, finally, we can backtrack 'nsal 2015 and we can backtrack 'nsal' that went through 2016 and 2017, and very especially to what went before, during and after the month of October 2017, in relation, very concretely, to this question, to the external action of Catalonia. The first thing I have to say to you is that if anything I feel today is absolutely proud of the task that Councilman Raül Romeva has developed in front of the Department of Foreign Affairs for the years you have mentioned. And I feel perfectly proud because it was hard, indeed, the best presence, the best representation and the best ability to explain what was happening and the Catalan aspiration and what is Catalonia and what is Catalonia as added value, in democratic terms, for the European Union and for the whole world, and also before all the international institutions. So, at least from this point of view, I am not only proud, but also convinced that that work of those years represented, represented the best starting point for which we have now assumed, after the application of 155, the responsibility of government..., we could count, we could say, from some..., lastly, from some evidence, from a reality, from a capacity of contact, from a perfectly explicit respect on the part of institutions, political organizations, countries, parliamentary representations, etcetera, from the world. You have spoken, and it seems to me very good that you have spoken, about Europe. Too bad you didn't come here yesterday, huh? The presentation of Europe, which was yesterday late, actually, because, in fact, you have read and misread or misused some of the statements that have been read or misused, but it is obvious that it is not... that, in fact, I am fleeing from its actual content, because it demonstrates exactly the contrary of what you are trying to prove: because it demonstrates to what extent, with this Europe, that we are giving a step, effectively, alone, I believe that they solve, ambition, in the double sense of affirming the presence and influence of Catalonia to the European Union and to all of Europe, that we are giving a step, effectively, alone, that we are giving a step, and that we are achieving something that Europe urgently needs, that is to restore social credibility and confidence in the continent's representation, that we are producing, in the European Union, in the European Union, and in the European Union, in the European Union, and in the European Union, in the European Union, in the European Union, in the European Parliament, in the European Parliament, in the European Parliament, in the European Parliament, in the European Parliament, in the European Parliament, in the European, in the European, in the European Parliament, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, in the European, the European, in the European, the European, in the European, the European, the European, in, the European, the European, the European, in, in, the European, the European, the European, the context, in, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, in, in, in, in, the European, the European, in, in, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, in, in, the way urgently urgently urgently urgently urgently urgently urgently urgently urgently urgently, the way, the way, the way, the way, the way, the way, the way, the way, the way, the way, the European And what we are doing from this conviction, from Catalonia, is reacting against this and in favour of Europe. And we do this by supporting the most pro-European positions, which I think today... more pro-Europeans in the genuine sense of the word, because we try and deal with and be consistent with what the values that are reflected in the treaties of the European Union establish as rights, as objectives, as principles on which to base all European policies. So, in fact, from this point of view, I am absolutely calm. It is not only calm: I am absolutely convinced that we are actually giving the first steps and I am convinced that in the next few months and years this Government will continue to give even better, and still with more ambition, and even more results, which must be, effectively, this presence, this representation, this influence of the external action of the Government of Catalonia. Did you talk about resources? Do you like to talk about resources in this matter? Do you know how much the Catalan delegations cost abroad the past year, the 17th? They didn't pass..., look at the presupposition liquidated, they must be around four million euros. And all the outside action, all the outside action share of the department is around 35_million euros. And, if you like, I compare it with the 1,500 and millions of euros that the Spanish Government has allocated, which its party has been chairing for quite a few months, in the concept of external action. I mean that with this 2_percent of the total budget, or 0.25_per_percent that represents the cost of our direct, physical presence, with the Catalan delegations from Europe and the world..., you will see what we are really talking about. That is to say, my conviction, and I believe that my position, would be the evidence that we need to multiply the application of resources to defend and represent and influence from this external presence in Europe and the world. And that's what I'm convinced we're going to do with the nine delegations that we approved ourselves yesterday, and what we're going to do next, for sure, in the next few weeks and months, right? It would also be well, of course, Mr Fernández, that you may be able to..., in short, what I cannot do with the resources so moderate as to assure you that I can pay you travel from the department, but I invite you, as far as possible, to visit our permanent delegation to Brussels, to visit the delegations to Rome, to Berlin, to London, etc., to visit the United States, which we reopened last week, to talk to our delegates and delegates, to see what work is being done, and what is your personal and professional profile, and to see how far you are going to be or not..., it is not coherent with the..., in short, with the mission that is needed in the country itself. In the numerous contacts and, certainly, of high utility, that we were able to keep last week in the United States, we actually saw how far we could explain..., to what extent it is necessary to explain who we are, to explain what we are at these times as a country and as a society, to explain what happens to Catalonia and Spain, to explain what happens to us in terms of repression and in terms of systematic persecution of Spanish institutions, at least from the point of view of the judiciary and the police, and to explain also who our projects are, who are our intentions, which is our position on any of the issues that affect us with modern society, because many of the decisions that are taken at European institutions directly, to Brussels. Just as..., or as I explain to him what is the depth and intensity of Catalonia's economic relations, for example, with the United States? The one who explained to him how far have there been...? Do you know how many North American companies there are in Catalonia? More than a thousand. And eight hundred Catalan companies are out of the United States. Have you heard or have you not heard that we are accompanying you? And this is not just a matter of commercial promotion, which is so dignified... and of representation or persecution of foreign investments here, which is so dignified due to Action. And it's not just a question of cultural representation from the ICEC or from the Ramon Llull Institute or tourism promotion; it's a question of global representation, to what extent our societies must be protected, accompanied and felt involved. The Catalans in the world are Catalans, they are right-wing citizens, and so they show it and say it and show it all the time. So that is also our obligation, as is our right to be present before the European institutions, as we are already there. You say we haven't had it since 2013. I'm sorry to deny it. We have already made contact at various levels with the European Commission, we have already entered envelopes, we are already working with the European Commission, which is also our obligation. And we'll keep doing it, and I'm sure we'll do it even more effectively and with all the visibility you can convince. I have no doubt about this. And, lastly, miri, let's leave it, I don't know if talking about misappropriation... I ask you to remove a word from what you said, that's corruption. There's no element to say there's corruption. I can criticize the expense; criticize it. Does it look better to you...? I am convinced that most of the citizens of this country are collecting this expenditure, and they are in favour of devoting these resources, those of the department and those of the Diplomacy, those that have been used and those that will continue to be devoting from the Diplomacy to their own months. But absolutely withdraw the word "corruption, because it is neither certain nor absolutely adequate to the worthy reality, to the reality of professional solvency with which they are due from the department – and from Diplomat well soon – all these actions. And if you want to talk about misappropriation, you are talking about the cost of repression that we are patenting in this country; you are talking about the cost of justice that is applying in this country, absurd, unjust and unjust, and then you will see how many hundreds of millions, starting with 80 of the police dispersed in Barcelona last October, are effectively being held against the rights of our citizens, against the rights of all Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.279.0	Thank you, Counselor. From the escó? [[Pause.]] Yeah. It has the word now, for the reply, Mr. Fernández, from the escó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.280.0	Thank you very much. Telegraphically, Mr. Counselor. First of all, I have actually spoken of 'probably misappropriation', which would be corruption. What you can't tell me is that misappropriation is not corruption because there are people who agreed on the actions. It is a definition of corruption that I cannot accept and therefore I will not withdraw the expression that I have served. Then you invited me – I thank you very much – to visit all the delegations that have practically in the world, and tell me that they will explain to me the things they do. I think it'd be more cocky for everyone, even though the offer is very attractive, than instead of acting like Willy Fog is going around the world, giving us the reports we've asked for by writing and repeatedly refusing to give us. Therefore, I think it would be much more economical for everyone. Then, it's true that 35_million euros, said so, so it's not a quantity that could seem astronomical. But only once, why is it funny, huh? It is that it coincides exactly with the amount of money given to the public workers of Catalonia in foreign payments. Look, we've already found a destination for the money that you've been messing with all this time. I, finally, also a given, just for the sake of reflection. It turns out that Catalonia exports more to Cantábria than to the United States. I'm also saying this because I'm thinking about some of the things he's raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.281.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Finally, the counselor has the word for five minutes more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.282.0	Thank you, President. With the same patent. You have not exhausted – and you have right to do so – your time, I will not do it either, but it seems to me that it is worth clarifying some question. Miri, you're gonna get all the reports I can get, huh? We'll give them all the way we're already doing. We are strictly in compliance with the Law of Transparency without any doubt. And it seems to me that we are, I'm on condition, in short, to explain it personally with all the detail that I can convince you. I've already done it, haven't I? , to explain in parliamentary appearance to the Foreign Affairs Committee what is the role, what is the mission and what is the plan and what is the activity and what is the task of the Catalan delegations abroad. And we'll do it again as it's open vagina and there's more concrete, more tangible things to come back to, results and accountability that are going to take a long time. Of course I do. This is our obligation but it is also our pride to do so. It's not that we don't have any, it's that we want to find out what these delegations are doing out there. And we will do it with all certainty and with all clarity. And one_second comments respect that of 35_millions. Look, I understand that you would want Catalonia not to exist and not to be moved from here, that we were a quiet, closed people, but we exist, we will be in the world. We will spend 35 million and what we need to be worthy of our representation and institutional responsibility. And that's what the citizens of Catalonia are asking of us. It's all the opposite, you would want that you don't exist, that the 35_millions..., that you disappear the department, that you disappear any vestiges of presence outside Catalonia. Miri, he's not just gonna get it, he's totally wrong. The citizens of Catalonia have already given him the democratic scale. And if you continue to affirm this type of thing, that you want to erase Catalonia from the map in international terms, then obviously you will continue to deepen in the political disappearance of which you represent. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.283.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the fight against male rape]] [[300-00044/12]] Next, we will pass this point to the next one, which is the tretze and last one for this evening, which is the question to the Government about the fight against the masclistic rapes of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can. Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word to explain the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.284.0	Good night, deputies, deputies, presidency. Counselor, we had a bad time for conciliation to talk about masculinist rapes and also for attendance at the plenary, unfortunately. On November 25, three political activists were murdered at the hands of the secret police of dictator Rafael Trujillo to the Dominican Republic, they were the Mirabal Germans: the Homeland, the Minerva and the Maria Teresa. This was the day chosen to commemorate the International Day of the Elimination of Violence against Women. Millions of women were murdered, abused and assaulted before that day. Millions of women have been there since that day; also in Catalonia, of course. In 2018, six women to Catalonia, according to the official estimate, as the president reminds us every time that there is a new victim: Patricia, the Franciscan, the Laia, the Mari Paz, the Estela and a vein of Barcelona who died at bats of her husband who later committed suicide. But also a child, we would also have to talk about Eloi, Sabadell, who died murdered when his father decided to end his life and his son's life by stifling the car for a cliff so as not to return it to his mother. Because Eloi, like many other children and children, are also victims of male violence and are one of the great oblivions of all statisticians, all policies and laws against male violence, also the one we have here. There aren't all of them on this list either. There are many more than six because the official fee only contemplates those who have been murdered by their peers or exparels, as you can imagine all of you, there is so much more. And just one more example, too, Vilanova's thirteen-year-old girl who allegedly died at the hands of her own eyes. She's also a victim of male violence. And so did this inquiry. For all of them, for many more, we are obliged today to make this inquiry to the Government. Because we are four days away from the International Day against Masclist Violence and because we must remember that half the Catalan women declared 2016 to have been victims of Masclist Violence. We just need to take a picture here, look at the women there and calculate the half and surely a few of us will raise our hands. We have heard many times in the past few years that we should prioritize the struggle against male-based rape; we have heard the government's commitment to its eradication; they have heard the government's advisor and spokesman, Ms. Artadi, say that addressing all manifestations of male-based violence is one of the government's political priorities. Mr. Buch also said that society must be alarmed by the fact that there is still a level of tolerance for sexual violence. So yes, we're alarmed. We are alarmed, indignant, impatient and above all frightened. We're so freaked out. And that's why from here we want to ask for immediate and decisive actions to put aside male violence. We are alarmed by the twenty-three thousand complaints of the past year, by the forty-six affected by male violence in Catalonia every day. And we're also a little alarmed because we don't know if "priority and compromise" means the same for us as for the government. For us, what is meant by priority and tablets: concrete measures, strategic plans, terrified policies, continuous evaluation, sufficient professional resources and good conditions to attend to the victims' women, and this, as always, means presumption; it means resources. By luck we have a good workmark with the 2008 law, the Law of the Right of Women to the Eradication of Masclist Violence, which is actually innovative, especially because if we compare with the rest of what is around it is what is more advanced. But it's also true, and there have been cries from feminist organizations, that I need to start a reform of this law to include many of the things that were left out of it at the time. Two years after the implementation of the law the figures are the same; they have increased the complaints; they have increased the consultations on the support phone; they have increased the women who go to the service. Therefore, there is an urgent need for an increase in resources. The law could land her, apply her and lie her down to the women. Its degree of development, it is hard to say, has not so far been a priority of the Government, since there has not been enough assumptions or infrastructure for its real, effective and balanced application to the whole territory. Neither has the Català de les Dones Institute, which is the main rector organ of the Government's women's policies, which saw it go from EUR 12_million in 2010 to EUR 7 and half in 2014, and 2018 continues in EUR 8_million. We've got years of law enforcement. 2008, 12_millions; 2018, 8_millions. No comment. It also alarms the delay in the presentation of the pla against the masculinist rapes. They held one from 2012 to 2015, and now there is one that is a proposal for 2018-2022. Three years intermig without full route of one of the political priorities of the Government. I have a political priority, but I don't have a full route or a planning of how I'm going to do it. In these three years: 22 women murdered, 42,721 complaints in the family and in the couple, almost 4,000 complaints against freedom and sexual freedom, 35 female genital mutilations detected and 32 forced marriages. In the three years we haven't had a plan. Say no more, too. Now we have this new proposal, which has begun to work, but we've already told them that they're going to have a lot of work, because it's going to come back with a lot of ideas, because it hasn't started working with the entities that carry the subject, that are experts in the subject matter, and therefore you don't have a premise that you give answers to those who are needed. That's another one of the alarms we have. As we are alarmed by the data of the 2016 Masclist Violence Survey and alarmed by 2018, and that the previous one would have been 2009. That is to say, having effective data and truths about what is going on with women victims of male violence is instrumental in planning the services and resources that are needed. We cannot face a deeply patriarchal society, which is what generates masculinist rapes, only with verbal statements and commitments. Calen effective policies. There are sufficient economic and professional resources and good working conditions. We get many warnings of the bad conditions that the people who get victims of domestic violence have. And obviously, we need to increase resources. We warn you, too, we are still talking about assumptions; it will be one of our red lines with a view to talking about any presuppositional proposal for 2019: what is the presupposition, how are the details reversed in the policy against male violence and how are the resources increased to the territory. Now I'm going to take a little step back – small, because it won't give me more time to do more – of the different reports that were submitted to the day he evaluated the two years of the law, and in which some people from the government, some people from this Parliament, participated. Surprisingly, the reports, which should all be on the website of the Catalan Institute of Donations, are not all, it costs to find the information. That is why we have asked for appearances in the Committee on Equality, because we believe that this information is necessary for the work that this Parliament does, that it is to legislate and to follow government action. And I will not list a few quick ones: the assessment done on the approach model and the care and repair network clearly lacks sufficient resources to give quality attention to women and children; difficulties in coordination between services; job precariousness of professionals. All these diagnostics can be consulted on the website of the Catalan Institute, these yes. The failure to take into account factors that exacerbate discrimination, such as the fact of being of various origin, LGTBI or with various abilities. Very little detection and action against cases of female genital mutilation and forced marriages. We have already said this, and we will say this again: do not guarantee the rights of the children and daughters of the women affected. While law and protocol provide that they must also be subject to attention and repair processes, it is not so. I'm her parents, but there's not enough attention for children. Daughters and daughters of victims must also be a priority for this government. As we say, the law speaks of legal, economic and social reparation. And precisely one of the weakest fish in these processes is access to habitat. There are women who come from a process of repairing a male-violation situation with a support of four hundred euros and without rest, without a house. What life can this woman take after having overcome the situation of male violence? And we enter, for the short time remaining, to the great not included in all the actions that we do, and it is institutional violence, that it was not able to include 2008 and that it is absolutely urgent. We ask the women to act, but when they do not have company, they are alone. I'm sure all of you, or I hope many of you, saw the Sense's TV3 show. I don't need to quote all the cases that these women of neglect who suffer when they finally take the step of making the complaint, starting with the attention to Mossos, and the experts have made a very clear call to us that the time of attention to Mossos is essential at the time of gathering the demand, both to collect how things have gone as to encourage the woman to continue with the process. You can't find that from good to first there aren't professional specialists and there aren't enough professionals. We do not understand how a government that preaches that prioritizes the eradication of masculinist violence is not responsible for this. We need to put the institutions in the women's service so they don't have to. This day, thousands of us will be writing a letter from the street again. We'll be out there on the street, we'll ask them to stop killing us, we ask them to stop humiliating us, we ask them to stop setting us up. The feminist movement will cry out to the institutions. What's the answer we donate? Institutional rape is no response. When institutions are accomplices, we don't answer and we don't do enough to keep women from morninging. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.285.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To make the answer to the question has the word Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.286.0	Well, thank you. Thank you for the inquiry, thank you, in addition, for the moment you decided to do it. Actually, it's important the whole year, but it's true that there are times of the year that seem to... [[Funnel veils]] , no, not us, but, in general, society is more attentive to it, than it is to November and March, and, therefore, somehow also to take advantage of it. Because, certainly..., and I subscribe to many of the things you have said, and, in fact, I'm delighted and I'm glad that you condition the assumptions that there is a good program, a good orientation of everything that is women's politics, not just violence but equality, that in the end is the basis that produces everything else. And, besides, I invite you to work together, that you avenged the ICD and tried to improve the pleas of labor. Because, certainly, male violence is a violation of human rights, it is a devastating representation of this androcentric culture, which you also talked about, which puts in a situation of domination, a situation of power, privileges, of the abuse of men over women. There is an expression to the law, at 5/2018, which makes it clear that the problem cannot be dealt with from a falsely neutral perspective of the institutions, because precisely if we do not recognize these inequalities that there is, from the start, very difficult to correct them. Cal a global response, cal a coordinated response. And here is where the ICD tries to work together with departments– and I see here Councillor El Homrani, who is very important his department– in the various forms, in the various fields. There's a lot of fears you've been talking about. And now I'm sure I'll undress – then I'll continue too – it's true that we're celebrating now, isn't it? These two years. Since the ICD began organizing these days in May, precisely to make an assessment. Many of the studies, these that you cited, are precisely asked from the ICD, because they help us see where we are, as we have been positioned, and, stop this, they have also taken care of three collaborations with specialized women's entities, so, to have an analysis of the law, to see what proposals are to be made to improve, to make an assessment of the effectiveness of resources, which are certainly limited and have remained much more limited than they should have been, and to make a study on the guarantee of rights to education and non-masclist information from a feminist perspective. It's a starting point. There were things to the law that at the time, so– because she was already very ambitious, she was already very pioneering–, maybe they didn't come up with so much, and maybe I'll talk about two now, that she wasn't going to talk later, but how did the subject come out already in your first intervention in speaking: one is the specific situations, right? The woman migrated, prostitution, rural environment, old age, disability, penal execution centers, transsexuality. Everything that is dealt with at the end of the law and that makes reference to it and that is very important, so, of course, there is no single model of a woman, there is no single model of male violence, it is detailed in two articles, but there is only one reference to say: "Well, this has to be taken into account, it has to be taken into account... And that's important, because we have to have this vision. But, of course, if we look at it – before you also talked about data – 44 percent of women with disabilities declare that they have suffered abuse on the part of their peers or their counterparts. It's a cipher that's a lot out of date compared to what the general population is, which is already very tall. Or the fact that we also need to reflect, at the level of society, on people who are disconcerted with the genere, and who are entering and beginning to normalize situations of those who do not identify with either man or woman, according to what we have, the traditional conception of which are the generes. We have to work, we have to work more with entities and experts for what makes a step forward, in a law that also pioneered, which already marks, which is 11/2014. For what it does to secondary victimization or institutional victimization, which you have not spoken much, and which certainly dillons speak much. By the way, a parenthesis. Some of them were very disappointing, because the audience was immensely feminine, and there was the presence of the president, the vice president of the Bureau, of Gerard, and certainly someone else I didn't see, but it was immensely feminine. Clearly, if we have to change, as we change this society that is masculist for a society that is more egalitarian and only women, we have a problem. But before you talked to me, that we really have a problem – we have a problem –: when there is a woman who is a victim of male violence we have already failed, from the start. But what we can no longer afford is that there is an additional mistreatment as a consequence of interventions, because it is still quieter. Then, here are two big blocks. One is the one from the band. Since the institute has become a director, too, because the formation is not separate ballots, and the formation has to be as generic as specific, from everyone who works, in the treatment to the recovery of women who have suffered male violence. But it's the fact that this formation has to be mandatory. Because, if we can't impose that it's mandatory, we always find ourselves with the same, that they're the same women, that they're superformed, that they have in the courses. One better thing that could have been done is that the people who go to the formation, so then they can take it to their place of work and they have to make an application to their place of work of the formation that they have rejected. Because, if not, we also found that people were forming, coming back and with that she was... well, that sometimes it costs, right? Do you want to tie it up? The training is very useful precisely in order to relieve us of whether it is credible or not, whether the leaflets are good enough or not, if you ask the right questions, if you follow it well. And then, the other great environment, which unfortunately is not the only one, is in the legal sphere. And here, well, we can affect how much we can affect, but what we can't do is make it see that it doesn't exist, because that doesn't relieve us of responsibility. We listened to them, said: "Caltaunya is the place where less orders of protection are given to the women who ask for it. Here, that, besides, there was the Councillor of Justice, and that we were talking about, from the same department is doing a study, thinking about how to do a study and how to implement it to understand well what is happening with this phenomenon. But it's not only that they're not very clear, but that the Observer of Genera's Equality – which, in part, has already created the year precisely to have more information, to have more data – clearly, he tells us that only 47_percent of women murdered in the sphere of the paragraph had filed a complaint. Or let's just say there are many barriers to getting the little protection that, besides, is a woman. I'm moving on, huh? But we have already announced that there will be a national pact, in which we expect you to be able to collaborate very actively, and it is planned to improve the attention of women in a situation of male violence, at the time of the complaints; but, above all, at the length of the entire judicial process, that it is a process that is very hard, that it is a process of reliving a situation that is extremely dramatic at a time when you have been violated. The Department of Justice has a follow-up reinforcement in its judiciary, guidance to victims of male rape and is working well. It should be bigger, but it's working really well. At the last national committee we were explaining the results and this very same difference in talking again, that we are having a day in the Department of Interior, which is precisely said to be disproving patriarchal justice. You're very right, too – and it was one of the elements that I think we need to change, and it's urgent that we change it, especially in these aspects that are cross-cutting, to Administration, such as the theme of equality, such as the theme of violence, such as the theme of mental salvation, right? , which affects different departments–, which, at the time of making a premise, at the time of being clear what it is, what all departments do and what money they spend, I recognize that we from the ICD sometimes cost taking the photograph, and that sometimes we have meetings and know things that have been done that we may not know. This doesn't work, it doesn't help the assessment, it doesn't help the retention of accounts, both the work you have to do as we do as the entities do. In the context of the entities– and after that, I will go over other things that I wanted to explain to you as well as actions that we are doing and others that we will do–, it's true the historical paper that women's movements have touched; a historical paper that, sadly, in which society's joint venture is, is little recognized, and therefore also what we are trying to do or what we do every day through the ICD is, therefore, to recognize that the participation of groups, that associations, entities, experts are key. One of the elements we have promoted, for example, is the revision of the decree of the National Council of Donations of Catalonia. We held the last meeting in Lleida on a one-month basis, and forgive the anecdote, but at the presidential table we were three of the Administration and one of an entity. Clearly, all this has to be changed in order to be able to participate. The subject of subsidies. All that is the field of public administration, the relationship of subsidies with providers who collaborate in a very active and very useful way to donate services has also been evolving. In some camps it was faster, in others it was slower. It's happened to agree, it's happened to other formulas, and that's why we're in the middle of reviewing forms, not just to give more agility, which is a cry, always, when there's a subsidy, even though it's for another administration, but not just for that, but for a matter of reducing uncertainty. And also participate, for example, was the process of participation in the comprehensive intervention program against male violence, which you called before; therefore, there was this participation. It's been done through the National Council Against Male Violence, and at this point, it's already in the analysis phase of the committee of experts, which is what will actually make the closed, already, we have to close it before the year ends. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And then I'll explain more. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.287.0	I'll get back to the congresswoman's reply. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.288.0	He'll advise, I, after yesterday, of the president's intervention, too, won't he? ..., that's what we say: or, if we talk, we get along a lot and we share a lot, the thing goes when we land, the thing we talk and what we say we agree when we talk. And we will insist: that means resources. But it means significant resources, because if we agree, too, that we are late, that we have lost a lot of time, that the implementation of the law has been deficient, that the answer that is being given is neither in terms of quantity nor quality, it means that, as a minimum, we hope that the premise of the Catalan Institute of Women will arrive the year that it was in 2010, that this means, practically, doubling what it has now, because it is the least we consider. As a matter of fact, going back to 2010, even though we believe that the situation has worsened, and that, therefore, it should be more money. What you say about the impossibility of knowing how much this government is spending on male rapes, I sign. Today we asked a question to see if we could get a little bit of the entanglement. It was practically impossible. We know what the Catalan Institute of Donations does, we can make a calculation of what the SIE, SIAD assumptions make, but it is impossible to hear it... And that, you know, hard to say, but I mean that transversality has not been applied or thought of as government, because, if not, it wouldn't have been so difficult for the Catalan Institute of Donations, which is the organ that ages for the transversalization of women's policies, to have this information. Why... why don't you explain to me how it's so possible... More concrete things, than we would ask. We did..., thanks to our initiative was approved unanimously to the general policy debate a motion that asked to increase by 35_per_cent the specific match to the assumptions of the year 2019. Clearly, it is necessary to create a specific game that reverses all of this; it is necessary to change the presuppositional focus of male violence. We also asked, and it was approved, to create a presuppositional assessment board that determines who is the assumption necessary to deploy this law. Is it going to create, this commission, that I was at the young lady who approved it? We talked about the creation of the national pact, which was also in a motion that presented another group and that we gave support to it. What's he gonna call? When will it start to stand in the way? When are we gonna talk? And, above all, when do we land what we're talking about? When do we move from words to facts? Minimum – minimum –: the names of SIE must be duplicated; they have not been and should not be, as at least, seven. That, more or less, is about 3_million euros. Will they be on the assumption of the coming year? The SIAD, the assumption they have..., or continue, there are joints that charge 35,000 euros a year in order to be able to put a SIAD in the market. What conditions do people working at SIAD work on? The Barcelona City Council has made all the people working on the care systems for women municipal, because it is the best way to guarantee working conditions, psychological conditions, which also require people who comply with the victims of rape. This is concrete facts, this is concrete policies. We can agree on the diagnosis and measures as we move forward, but we need to agree on the times when we make these changes. Now they also have a transfer, of more than 14_million euros, from the State. What's the assumption? What's he going to do? Who's the full route to implement this? What will be the counterpart that the Generality will place on its assumptions? We have said it many times: there is not enough. And I believe that the role that the Catalan Institute of Donations must also have and its advice is to guarantee this commitment from all areas of government to apply this. And the subject of moves is fundamental. And the subject of training for future judges, it's also fundamental. And you said, that it must be mandatory and that it is not always possible. But on the move, and on staff I will work, yes it can, yes it can condition this formation. Yes, it can be a concrete measure, which makes people have more resources and more tools to attend to the victims of male violence. And in habitation, we have asked many times: or, what does the Generality plan to do to put in the necessary habitations to replenish the victims of male violence? How do we pretend that a woman can get out of a rape victim situation if she's sentenced to live in the same building, the same thing she saw her attacker? That if he's out of order, and he's still living in the same room, with his kids, going to the same school. How do we guarantee this habitation? I'm telling you, we're not guaranteeing that we're preventing 30 percent, as we did today, from getting more social housing that can be made available to women who are victims of violence. So let's stop saying that we agree on a lot of things, that we are... well, let's not stop saying, let's say it, but then we land, see if we agree on how these problems are addressed. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.289.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's the councillor's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.290.0	We agree to "shut it down." [[The joker laughs.]] Therefore, I hope that the interaction that we have is not only the day that we have an inquiry, but that it is more fluid, so that we can do it, let's say it. The issue prevented. In prevention we have to work intensely, because if we only worry on the one hand, which is very dramatic, which is when it has already happened, we are not able to deal with the problem. In this sense: new protocol of the Department of Interior, training through the School of Public Service. This is a job that's already been done. They're getting better, updating the protocols, too, of the Squad Coast, but above all, they're intensifying what formation is. Actually, it's places, fortunately, where it's easier for us to do the training. In the field of repair is key the issue of habitats, and therefore in the pact this is one of the elements to be-there. In 2017 it was possible to award 102 habitats for women victims of male violence, but it is clear that, above all, in the case of rape in the family, it is necessary to go this way. Therefore, it is one of the themes that needs to be strengthened. In the pact. What situation are we in? It was explained in the last meeting of the National Commission for coordinated intervention of male violence, and in this context where there are deputies, professional colleges, territorial circuits, associations, unions, including in states such as the Delegation of the Government and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Catalonia, bilateral meetings are being held with all of them. We're at this point, working with all the departments. And, I repeat, there are two of the departments that are doing the most and most actively being... and, therefore, the idea is to finish making a premise in which, obviously, the money that comes from the State... because this program already existed, but the PP government had forgotten to provide it, and now fortunately recovered. You have to have this premise, and we have to be clear where each of the parties are. The forecast is to close it in the first few months of 2019, because if we don't keep going. And base it on the strategy we're already approving. I can't go, neither, uncoordinated. You spoke before the Violence Survey, which we presented, the one of 2016, which we presented on the 18th. It has to be compromised that this is repeated; there will be no specific, coming year, sexual rapes, but sometimes we don't know if resources are being used more because there are more attacks, or because women know more. It is obvious that the need to equip them is the same, but it is important to know if we have more or less... And we have very little information. Before you say so: we know the women who have been killed, sometimes, including, we only account for those in the pair, but not those in the community, or family, or work, etc. So, a lot of work in this sense. A lot of work in sensitisation. There has to be a change, too, and there has to be a change. The year passed with the campaign of "Only it is! , to put the consent, which must be explained, which is very different from the "No, it is not; it is very different, and it must also be changed... We are developing the sanctioning rule of what the Law of Equality is, but that in some things it also affects, another time, because it is the basis on the themes of sexist violence. This is where we have power, too, to sanction sexist media contents. So, we're working on this line, and we're reviewing, and when I say reviewing, it's because we're reviewing it, and we really need to see how far we can go, also with the grant criteria in the communication media. Here they are like what happened with the public sector contract guide, which is how the public sector has a lot of interaction with the private sector, and how a big contractor has to be able to leverage and change things. The contract guide, so they got laid, too. And it's still a little bit like what's going on with training, which we can give more points, we can urge, but it's still very hard for us to do. And, therefore, we want to see if these recommendations have a translation and, if not, have to be, even though it is by a change of law, it can be more aggressive in this matter. The effective care and protection network, obviously, is priority, there are defects that we have, and they are very clear... As, for example, not all areas of the territory can give twenty-four hours a day three hundred and sixty-five days a week, and this is a territorial inequality that we cannot afford. And, therefore, in this sense, we must be able to move forward. As, in the same way that there is no coordinated integrated and consensual model of the approach to sexual rape, and that already told us, in the Positive Generation study, precisely to go in this line. And so do you, developing specific and specialized attention to children. On this we also see, that there was a relationship, there is an intergenerational component that is transmitted, and, therefore, if we really want to stop and make a cultural change, we also have to act in these lines. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-21-2001.291.0	Before... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Before suspending the session until tomorrow, we suggest a change in the order of the day of tomorrow, of the order of the motions, for which the motion number 19 would pass after the motion number 20, and the 21st, before the 20th. In any case, I understand that the groups are already informed, and so they already know exactly what the proposed change is. And, on the other hand, let them know that tomorrow, after item 19, that it is this one that we have changed, and, therefore, will be the last of the middle, before the break for dinar, that will read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on sexual abuse of infants, that they have granted the joint of the groups, and, therefore, that it is an institutional statement that we read tomorrow, after the last motion, before the break for dinar. We raise the session till tomorrow morning, at nine.
