ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.1.0	Good morning. It's part of the session. Before we continue, allow me, on behalf of the chamber, to greet again the Presidents Montilla and Mas and the representatives of Parliament Benach, Rigol and De Gispert, and the rest of the authorities who are accompanying us today. [[Program debate and investiture vote of Member Quim Torra and Pla, candidate proposed to the Presidency of the Generality (continuation)]] [[201-00005/12]] According to Article 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, the proposed May 12th took place the presentation, before the plenary, of the government program of the candidate for the Presidency of the Generality, and, since it did not complete the majority required to be invested and in compliment of the stated law, correspond, now, to initiate a_second debate and a_second vote in which it will be sufficient, as you know, the simple majority. Therefore, it is now, again, the return of candidate Quim Torra and Pla, who has the word. The candidate for the presidency of the Generality ( Quim Torra and Pla ) President, ladies and gentlemen, very honourable President Mas, very honorable President Montilla, very honorable President De Gispert, very honorable President Benach, very honorable President Rigol, very honorable Lord Conesa, illustrissim Lord Reñé, elected representatives to the Congress and to the Senate, councillor Borràs, authorities, lords and lords who follow us from the hemicicle and from the rest of the rooms enabled and those who follow us through the communications media in the country, very welcome to the house of all. And also, and most especially, a very affectionate greeting to the relatives of prisoners and exiles, who today also accompany us. Thank you very much for being there today, thank you very much for always being there, thank you very much for your courage. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] And, of course, as we do every time, as we will every time, a record excited for those who cannot be here today: President Puigdemont, Vice President Junqueras, the advisors Jordi Turull, Raül Romeva, Clara Ponsatí, Toni Comín, Joaquim Forn, Josep Rull, Lluís Puig, Dolors Bassa and Meritxell Serret, President Carme Forcadell, the president of our parliamentary group, in Jordi Sánchez, and the friend enyorat Jordi Cuixart, the General Secretariat of Esquerra, Marta Rovira and former CUP deputy Anna Gabriel. I hope and wish that you passed a good diumenge yesterday. If I may, I would like to recall, first of all, the three essential points that I defended disbande. First, that our president is Carles Puigdemont. According to them, they are loyal to the mandate of the referendum of self-determination of the first of October: to build an independent state in the form of a republic. And third, our governance program is the social cohesion and economic prosperity of Catalonia. Next, I will expose the five basic ideas that will mark this legislature: exceptionality, provisionality, responsibility of government members, dialogue and life. I'm not. I hope you're clear. And it was also said that the Catalan Republic can only pull forward if it turns around, as with its centre, people, and that it can base the legitimate political struggle on integrity and respect it more deeply to all of them, freedom and culture. This isn't where we're going, I'll never get tired of repeating it. I continued to develop Republican values. Republicanism as a society of free and equal citizens, not subordinated, not dominated, empowered, participative; at which time I introduced another of the key points of this legislature: the process constitutes; and which gives the point of ambition we propose: going from the restitution of our institutions to the recovery of democracy in its maximum expression, the elaboration of a draft constitution. This is how we set aside the three ways of republican political action: the first, to the exile or free space of Europe, with the council of the republic; the second, in Catalonia, through the Government of the Generality, the Parliament and the assemblies, and also with the creation of the assembly of elected officials, an entity destined to have a very important role. , and the third way of action, naturally, with an empowered citizenry, mobilized and involved in the process constitute. With the end of the legislature, we will have the strength to get to work and, more importantly, we will be able to face the judicious celebration of the Catalan democrats with even more resistance. The country, I have commented, will be tested and all – government, institutions and citizens – will know how to be at the height of the moment. Faced with this second session of the investiture debate demanding full birth and asking for their trust: a free, fair, early birth that guarantees the welfare of all the citizens who make up it. I'm talking about a republic of all, the republic of all rights. That's, like, a country where everyone enjoys the fullness of right. You talk about your republic of all, now the republic of all is right; this is a country where everyone enjoys the fullness of rights. Yes, I'm talking about a republic of all, the republic of all rights. A country where everyone enjoys the fullness of rights. We aspire to have a society formed by city free and critical, with infinite origins and destiny, with interests, ambitions and expectations very diverse, often even counterpossessed. And we're also still betting on the debate, the dialogue and the ballot box, as the only way to advance our society. There is no better expression of dialogue and debate than that which culminates with an absolute respect for the freedom of each person to express himself, to express himself and to decide everything. To defend the republic is to defend us all and every one of us, the seven million inhabitants of this country. We demand the sovereignty of Parliament to make laws just, to help and defend all people and to promote equality, prosperity and sustainability. The Republic is all of us. The government that I will preside, with the support of the parliamentary majority of this chamber, will once again push all and every law that the PP government has brought to the Constitutional Court and that has been suspended. There are seven, in total; some of them approved unanimously in this chamber, and therefore with the PP's favourable vote, which did not serve to prevent the Government of the State's picker from also leaving them in suspense. These laws served as a common interest of all and every citizen of this country and to expand their rights. Does anyone think that the fight against climate change only served the citizen who are independent? Or that the law of poor energy distinguished between vulnerable people who are independent and those who are not? Or the equality between men and women? With the republic no one has to give up anything, we will have a better country for everyone, votes who votes, thinks what you think. With the Republic, everyone will gain rights and no one will lose them. The republic, I repeat, is for everyone. And why do we want it, this republic of ours? Because it's betting for the future and it's betting for the Catalans' seven-million-year-olds, all over the country, for the cent-per-cent of the citizenry; because the Catalan Republic is freedom, equality and fraternity; it's cohesion and social progress, but also progress and opportunity to grow economically. And, of course, the Catalan Republic is looking at Europe and the world, it is democracy and respect for the fundamental rights. I am convinced that the vast majority of the challenges we have can work together. I invite you to pose from tomorrow. Surely in the X-ray and the list we can find a common point with a certain ease. What's truly radical is that we think about how we're going to do it. How do we respond to the needs of the country, which the people ask of us? How do we turn problems into solutions? How do we have the economic resources to pay for public services and investments? How do we do it because our rail transport is that of a modern country? How do we keep the Mediterranean Corridor that our economy needs? How do we really guarantee the right to housing? How do we do it to be pioneers in the fight to be the climate change and to leave our children and our nets a country more respectful of the environment? I invite you all to get involved there. The advances, however, which are all related to two basic concepts: economic resources and political power; that is, decision-making capacity. The first thing I want to talk to you about today is social cohesion and freedom, like its republic value, and it deals with education, health, social issues, immigration, housing, culture and sport. Freedom must enable us to have a republic where we can every end our personal and family life project independently of its origin; a society where everyone has the same opportunities; a society of well-being, strong, able to respond to the challenges, current and future, that the country requires. As Councillor Turull pointed out in his investment speech, Catalonia's main activity is people, 7_million_i_mig from citizens, from different backgrounds and united by the willingness to build a country every day better. Education. We will defend and strengthen the model of Catalan school as a paler of social cohesion and as a vertebrator of an educational system of multilingual character. We will deploy the inclusive education decree and apply the Stemcat program, driven by scientific, technological, engineering and mathematical vocations. We will progress in the autonomy of centres and in the quality of educational projects. We'll increase the teacher's endowment. We will increase public funding for the education system and promote an initial training of teachers more closely related to practice. We will enhance professional training, advancing in the integration of the three whites. Finally, we will create the public agency of professional training and qualification in Catalonia, as the agency of direction and coordination of the basic services of the system. Hey. We have a health model of success, quality, public, universal, equity, centered on people, on their rights and on their dignity. We need to improve the working conditions of your professionals, regain wages and retain talent. We need to do it, yes; we need to make investments in healthcare technology and infrastructure. We promote a new law of health, with the utmost consent, which guarantees the sustainability and the betterment of the health system, with universal public coverage for everyone and ensures funding and improves the working conditions of the system's professionals. We will also give momentum to the comprehensive plan for the better of health care waiting lists, to reduce waiting time for diagnosis and treatment, with more involvement of health professionals in their management. Social issues. Social services must not give to a new social system, based on the universal dignity of people and the overcoming of a policy of subsidies closer to one another and more conducive to the idea of charity, in order to leave behind a policy of social investment, starting from the idea that social rights are at the same level as other universal rights, such as education, health and work. We will place special emphasis on policies of gender and diversity of sexual orientation and gender identity, as well as the fight against male violence. We want a new model of intervention in the field of sexual violence and you need us and specific resources to address prevention, risk situations, emergency tension and monitoring. We will deal with the sanctioning rule of Law 11/2014, with immediate character, in order to guarantee the LGTBI rights and increase the import of the penalties provided for. So, as I mentioned disbanded them, we have to work to achieve equality between men and women in the world of work. Immigration. The guarantee of equal opportunities for all citizens also implies the assumption of the management of migration policies. We want to promote a country of coexistence, but also of inclusion and intercultural interaction in order to deepen the construction of a cohesive and diverse people who, taking advantage of the demographic transformation that has experienced the past decades, bet for a real coexistence, for a society that allows everyone to have its own guarantees. A country that projects these values for its coexistence, but also with cooperation with the world. Habitat. We must effectively recover the measures provided for in the legislation on housing adopted in this Parliament in Catalonia and which has been the subject of appeals to the Constitutional Court. We'll make a shoal to increase the public housing stock. We will develop the national plan for habitating 2018-2025. Culture............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A true pillar of the welfare state, essential to meet the need for social cohesion. We commit ourselves to equalizing the cultural presupposition during this parliamentary term for which the most developed countries of our circle have at their disposal. Working for equal access and equity to culture, deploying the national book and reading plan, the single library book project, the reactivation of the audiovisual digital channel, suspected by the Constitutional Court, and the defense of a super-reduced cultural VAT will be some of the measures we will implement. Sports. An important economic sector in our country and external projection instrument. We will approve a new law of physical activity and sport, a promotion plan of physical activity and sport, with the creation of the sports reception. We will work to search for new sources and stable funding for the sport sector. We will enhance women's sport and design programs for vulnerable communities and promote sports diplomacy. The second is economic prosperity, and in this we address employment, fiscal and financial policy, business, energy, knowledge, the primary sector, urban housing, the environment and mobility and public transport. Equality, with capital letters, one of the basic republican values, is also built from economic prosperity, based on a new product model that guarantees and increases the welfare society. No economic prosperity has progressed either individually or collectively. First place, then, occupation. The generation of quality employment on a continuous and stable basis must be a priority. We are promoting a national pact with social and economic agents that allows us to evolve into a new model of production and labour relations of greater added value and more adapted to the globality of markets, with conditions of work similar to European countries, guaranteeing workers the rights that protect the quality and stability of jobs. We will push with social and economic agents a minimum wage according to the European Social Charter standards, and we will reach a monthly gross EUR 1 000. We will set as priorities active employment policies, in the framework of the employment system and the public employment service of Catalonia, the personalized and individualised orientation, the territorialization of policies by means of a system of concertation and programme contracts, the segmentation of policies and mixed programmes. We will strengthen the right and due to the training of workers in the long run of their working life. We will complete the deployment of guaranteed citizenship income, configured as a real active employment policy, with the objective that its beneficiaries can overcome the conditions that they have had to need the benefit. Fiscal and financial policy. Fiscal sovereignty is key to securing a future for our children. We want a closer tax administration, which recognizes the contributor as a client; fairer, that it fights effectively against fraud and tax evasion, and more effectively, able to generate enough resources to promote all the policies we aim for. We have to recover the full functioning of the history of which we had before the application of Article 155 and complete the deployment of the Tax Agency of Catalonia. Company. We have and want to continue to have an economy not based on privileges or speculation but on effort, entrepreneurship, innovation, work ability and talent. We will facilitate a competitive environment that boosts the growth of business activity on the basis of a solid Catalan economy, where data deny the interested manipulations that took place during these last months. The deployment of the National Pact for Industry is the main bet for economic growth in this dozenate legislature; it is the most important programmatic agreement made in the past few years to boost the industrial fabric of Catalonia. It was signed in July of last year, with the will to drive industrial policies in a shared way with the economic and social agents of the country. It is a cross-cutting pact, affecting various government departments, and despite the complex circumstances and the financial intervention in which it was to be carried out, the compliment of the pact, of the year 2017, is a global 70_per_cent. We want to be a leading country in the march of the fourth industrial revolution, rethinking industrial production in the light of the potentialities of digitalization and other advanced technologies. And we want the concept of circular economy to permeate our entire productive capacity, as do the modern economies of the world. Industry 4.0 and the circular economy are therefore the backbones of our country's industrial future. This serves for all of our product fabric, for large companies, but also for the peppers and micro-enterprises. For what it does to the internationalization of the economy, we will help companies that start exporting with master's programs from Action and Evidence. We will strengthen the prospecting and proactive search teams for opportunities for external and Action offices as the internationalization agency. We will create the foreign investment register in Catalonia and the Catalan investment register in the foreign country. We empower Action in its role of management, identification and proposal to overcome administrative or institutional barriers to investment. And we will continue to participate actively in the deployment of the Europe 2020 Strategy and RIS3CAT. Thus, we will promote an internationalization of the agri-food sector through Proveca. Energy. It is important to ensure democratic control of energy through the development of the National Energy Transition Pact, with the intention that the year 2050 will bring all electricity generated in Catalonia from renewable sources. The current energy model has two added difficulties. In the first place, we have a great external energy dependence. The second difficulty is that the energy market has a lot of actors and priests are not competitive, so that our companies are finding an additional skill in their competitiveness, and this situation also makes the energy bill too much for many vulnerable families. Knowledge. Catalonia's university and research system is configured as one of the key knowledge and higher education poles of southern Europe. It is necessary to agree on the future of the Catalan university through the National Pact for the University, ensuring its transformation into a model based on the modernization of structures, technical and economic viability, internationalization and transfer of knowledge. It is necessary to advance in a system of ordinary tuition fees with deductions for family income, academic performance and place of residence, as well as the better coverage and quantity of scholarships by means of a progressive system. We will draw up a law on the system of research and innovation with a comprehensive and country-based vision, which introduced better ways of ensuring the sustainability of the system, removing bureaucratic obstacles and promoting the incorporation of new resources. Universities, R & D & I centres and other public and private entities are the main sources of new knowledge that can be promoted to diversify and strengthen the country's economy. These entities must act synergistically, encouraging collaboration with the product fabric. Primary sector. The primary sector forms part of the Catalan model of production that protects and promotes it in development. We need to improve the competitiveness of our pages, of the farms, branches, forests and of the fishing sector, as well as of the food companies, inspiring us in models of other countries of dimensions and characteristics similar to ours. We will push a law of agricultural and primary sector development to preserve high agricultural value areas, avoid abandonment and loss of fertile land, and promote professional farms and the incorporation of young people into the sector. We will promote the national pact for the bioeconomy that promotes an efficient use of all natural resources, while applying innovation and technology to promote comprehensive management and the improvement of territorial development, as well as a research and innovation plan that includes agricultural development, rowing, fishing and forestry, through the IRTA and the Technology and Forestry Centre of Catalonia. Environment. I want to make it clear that this will be a fundamental aspect of the governance plan. Environmental policies represent a first cross-sectional layer of the rest of sectoral policies, an indispensable basis for any country that pretends to be in tune with the greatest of the global reptes we have as humanity: the struggle against climate change. In fact, Catalonia passed one of the first laws to Europe against climate change, and the State sent it to the Constitutional to suspend it. All a statement of intent to band and band. We understand the world as a loan of our children, and we legislate with a global look to preserve it, while others just look who signs the law. We will develop the Catalan Climate Change Law, which the Constitutional has wanted to liquidate, with the Climate Fund, the tax on CO2 emissions from vehicles and carbon assumptions. We will also make a new quality plan for the Barcelona conurbation to reduce its contamination. We will create – and this is very important – the new company Aigues Ter Llobregat public, to compliment Parliament's mandate. And we will work together with the Department of Agriculture and the sector to recover vulnerable areas contaminated by nitrates. Urban habitation. We want to promote the Urban Agenda of Catalonia, all following the orientations of the United Nations in reference to which it is known globally as the New Urban Agenda. It will not be a theoretical document, but it will respond to the fact that the expectations of well-being, of services and opportunities of almost everyone today resemble those of the urban world. Large metropolitan regions are the most dynamic areas from the economic and social point of view and, therefore, the ones to mark the pattern in cultural creativity, economic enterprise, transition to sustainability, policies of equality or political innovation. Mobility and public transport. We will continue to integrate sustainability principles into the planning and management of mobility, which involves a determined bet for public transport and for the least polluting means of transport. We will boost the implementation of the T-Mobility, which allows you to travel throughout the country with a single transport title. This represents a real revolution, similar to that of tariff integration in your day. And, very important, we intend to implement a new model of financing high-capacity lives that allows to raise toll barriers, finance the better of the existing infrastructure and invest in the better of public transport. It is what we call the Vinyeta, already implemented in some European countries, a new paradigm in the management of infrastructures. Regarding the management of ports, airports and railway networks, we would abandon the centralized and obsolete model of the Spanish Administration that we have suffered until today and we would bet on an individualized management system. We will recover, so that we can recover it, the Catalan agenda of the Mediterranean Corridor, because if we do not recover it, no one will recover it, a consensus document between the political, economic and social agents of Catalonia. We need the corridor, the investments and the management, since it's a set of foundational infrastructures for our competitiveness. The third is democracy, which includes digital policies, public administration, transparency and open government, communication media, justice and security. Fraternity must allow us to have a republic based on respect, diversity, tolerance, integration, solidarity. We think differently, we have different aspirations, but we all help build the country of all. We don't want a uniform Catalonia, but a united Catalonia in diversity. This is the real wealth of the country, this is the value that will allow us to pull forward, grow and build. A country also with a diversity of landscapes, of speech, of traditions and of costumes. In the words of Palau and Fabre – and allow me an appointment, at least today –: « Soc from here, soc stranger. Who's not alienating in any way? Who doesn't feel different from the others at some point? The consciousness of one's foreign self helps us to empathize with another, the new, the singular or the various in some aspect of his life. Public administration. In the digital Catalonia of the 21st century, the Administration has to manage and lead the technological transition of public administrations in the framework of the National Pact for the Digital Society. The time has come for the Government of Catalonia to have a solid governance in digital politics. As Councillor Turull has already done, it is necessary to say and to thank all the public workers of the Generality that these last months have had to fight, with their professionalism and with their compromise, all the negative effects of 155. Many, many thanks, public workers of Catalonia. [[Perlongats applause.]] We will develop a more efficient, simple, responsive and useful public administration for people, businesses and entities, innovative and adapted to change and demand. We will work to simplify and improve the accessibility of the citizens' relationship, entities and businesses with the Administration. We will boost the territorial offices of attention to the city of the Generality and we will approve a public office of occupation, ensuring the generational replenishment and the capture of talent. We need to move towards an open governance system that integrates transparency policies, open data and citizen participation. Transparency, accountability and the empowerment of the citizenry or the open government must be irrefutable premises. We have the will to increase control in public procurement, to boost ethical busts and to establish mechanisms for the protection of alerters. Zero corruption. We will summon the Catalan mechanism of fighting corruption and fraud, and we will provide regulation, structure and periodicity, and we will provide more resources for the administration of justice and the specific units of the Squadre Mossos. As I said before yesterday, in the area of communication media, we would propose the appropriate presuppositional endowment for the corporation, to ensure a quality service and leadership vocation and that it can face the difficulties imposed on the Spanish Ministry of Heritage. We want to guarantee the necessary media so that the media of the corporation can carry out the mission they have in charge of the law, so that they can follow the media of quality, leaders and referents for the people of this country. Justice. Catalonia must work for a scrupulous separation of powers, for democracy and respect for the rights and freedoms of the people, with a system of independent, agile, truthful and reliable administration of justice. We will develop the global electronic function of the Justice Administration, and we will make a country agreement for the normalization of Catalonia to justice and in all areas of justice. We need it. The Catalan sensations today are less than 7_percent of the total. Practically our language has disappeared from the courts of justice. We've got this normalization plan. Security. It is essential to immediately reverse the damage that 155_has caused to the Squad Coast and return the exercise of its responsibilities to normality. And defend the honorability of all its members and commands. We'll make the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad The Squadron must have a permanent presence in those international police coordination bodies, a need that had to be produced years ago and that the Spanish State has been systematically obstructing. We want to invest to equip the body with the human resources, format and technology needed to deal with the security challenges with guarantees, as well as the new forms of crime. We must maintain and deepen in the fight against terrorism in the framework of an integral cross-cutting strategy of security, which does not only involve the police sphere of the terrorist fact, but also addresses the prevention of radicalisation processes as a complex phenomenon that deals with different spheres of society. At this point, I want to make a record felt and excited for all the victims of terrorism, and especially for those of the Barcelona and Cambrils storms of the past August. [[Perlongats applause.]] Finally, and to finish this block, we promote a new model of firefighters that radically renews the current one, with the aim of adapting it to the needs and reality of the 21st century. I want to insist that all I have explained to you is one of the lives with which we intend to act, that of the government. As I pointed out at the beginning, and I think much deeper into yesterday's session, the Republican project goes through the free space of Europe, government, parliament and assemblies, assembly of elects and processes. And then, and to end up, if I may, I'd like to give you a personal reflection. You know me for my work at the Born Cultural Centre, entities such as Sobirania and Justicia or Ómnium, or the Centre d'Estudis de Temas Contemporanis or for the books I have published. But for years I worked for a multinational insurance company, first as a lawyer, after his secretary general, finally as a executioner or project director. And yet, after running a tech subsidiary, I had the opportunity to integrate myself into an international project with the group's central offices in Switzerland, where I had the great luck of living there two years. We used to plan enterprise strategy for objectives and execution for work projects, with a succession of phases over time. Do you know what the most important phase of all was for us? The latter, when the project, achieved some final results, was given by the end and we went to the next lesson. It was considered that only with the accurate examination of how the project had gone this time could the company gain the knowledge and experience needed to approach us. I'll explain all this to you because I think it's time for us to jointly evaluate lessons learned in the last few months. I told them that it was up to us all to take risks, that we should have every point of self-criticism necessary, that we should recognize the mistakes and the uncertainties that we can bring with our activity and with our commitments. But I couldn't ask them for this exercise if I wasn't the first one to do it. That's why I've already disbanded them from saying that I'm sorry that a bunch of context stories, addressed to the government of the state, could offend anyone. I don't know how hard to repeat myself there, because it was my intention anyway. It also tastes hard if at some point, the result of the intensity that the journalism calls for, there could be some inconvenient word. I'm punishing myself and it won't happen again. That's why, because what I want is what I want for everyone, the freedom I want for my people I want for all people. And for the Spanish people, and for the Catalan people, freedom has the name of a republic, a Catalan republic and a Spanish republic. With the death of dictator Franco, for a moment, it seemed possible that the Spanish State finally became the state that we were supposed to be, a democratic state that respected plurinationality and assured us the necessary tools to be able to build future, equality and justice for our children. God's faith that few like Catalans didn't get involved. Mostly the Catalans trusted that it was possible that our values were respected. I have always understood the relationship between Catalonia and Spain as a paradox. The Catalan problem is not only the problem of the freedom of Catalonia, it is also the problem of the freedom of Spain, and the opposite. But we've seen that year of finding before a wall of misunderstandings and prohibitions. Any other year, we saw how the Spanish State condemned us to residuality and offended our future, in the infrastructures, in the financing of the services that our people deserve, in the rights of our culture, in the adventures of social justice that we so much need. The political sovereignty of the Catalans to decide their future, which is the central point of our debate, ultimately reduced the essence to a mere administration. The reform of the Statute of Catalonia, approved for this Parliament, escaped for the Congress of Deputies and also so referred for the people of Catalonia, was practically unnaturalized for the Constitutional Court in 2010. The constitutional pact was broken. The Spanish State did not recognize us as the interlocutor or as the political subject, but as the subordinate people. Catalunya said enough. We were thousand, that 2010, behind a banner that said: "We are a nation. We decide. And there were also the presidents of Catalonia and Parliament – all the presidents of Catalonia and Parliament –: "We are a nation. We decide. It is then that many Catalans began to wonder until when, until when it would be reasonable and appointed not to become independent and guarantors of our future. The possibility of independence then appears as a movement of progress, of illusion, of modernity, of collective hope; a project of European art, such as escocès. And he took strength, until he occupied the same central and transversal space of the country. Thousands of associations and entities led what was already emerging as the most important democratic and peaceful change policy project in Western Europe. This is the key to remember. The process of independence of Catalonia is based on the impulse of the change force of the same city, a process of thousands of contributions and commitments, of citizens and citizens of Catalonia, extraordinarily cross-cutting, both ideologically and socially. Let's face it: the independenceists we are in this Parliament are by the strength of the people who have pushed us. And so good the Spanish people do a process that looks like it's emancipating, republicanly, and sovereignly. That's my wish, heartily and fraternally. From then on, since 2010, events have happened – you already know them well enough – while all attempts to negotiate with the State failed, one after the other, until October 2017. But, as he asked, we need to study lessons well after, if we want to move forward like the country. And the independentist doesn't have to have a problem recognizing that we haven't done a few things right. But it must also be recognized by those who prefer Catalonia to remain as a more autonomous community. It is essential to reject imprisonment, exile, persecution of citizens for their ideas, criminalization of civil and political rights. That's why I insist on the idea of my diaries speech: dialog and life. They'll find us here all the time. I'm done. Let's get to the 1955 genera. In exile, President Irla addresses a good friend of his, journalist Just Cabot, and thanking him for his congratulations to Any Nou on his concerns of the moment. I'll tell Cabot who these concerns are: the way the Catalan youth will follow, the right of Catalonia to freedom, and also the world. Two and a half years later, he resigned the presidency in favor of Josep Tarradellas. On September 19, 1958, at the age of eighty-two, he died in Sant Rafèu, Provence, in exile. Today, Sant Feliu de Guixols is buried. In his memoirs, the memoirs of President Irla, that open letter which he addressed to his esteemed bisbalenc friends with whom he was taking over his country, the president uses his records, the only way to avoid turning silence into imprisonment, exile into a non-place, day by day into a non-being. In just over fifty plans, Irla justifies her permanent, tireless, coughing political commitment. His is a voice that is not silent, that is remembered free and that ends up becoming a scribe so that no one forgets his reasons and his reasons: freedom, justice, republic. Ladies and gentlemen, we stand on the path we follow from today, the path of freedom, justice and the republic. For Catalonia and for life. It's all here and there. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.2.0	Thank you, Mr. Torra. We now suspend the Ple for fifteen minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.3.0	Let's resume the session. Please, vagina sit. [[Pause.]] Please... let's resume the session, with the intervention of the representatives of the groups and parliamentary sub-groups. Please, be quiet. In the first place, she has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, her president, Mrs. Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.4.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is confirmed that Mr Torra is going to be the next President of the Generalitat de Catalunya. As we said on Saturday, I feel a great sadness – a great sadness – not only because we have at the head of the Generalitat again a person who reaffirms himself in everything that the previous Government has done, who goes to shock, who says he looks very good, who will go to more, who follows, but because we also have at the head of the Generalitat of Catalonia a person whose ideology is perfectly clear through his articles; an ideology that defends xenophobia, that defends an exclusive identity, that defends populism. No, it's not six tweets – it's not six tweets. When you say: "Spain has essentially been an exporting country of misery, materially and spiritually speaking, that's what you think. Or he says: "No, it is not natural to speak in Spanish in Catalonia. Am I doing something unnatural, Mr. Torra? Am I doing something that seems unnatural to you, speaking Spanish in Catalonia? But there's more. It is that from Saturday to Monday we have known more articles from Mr Torra. It has..., seems to me it has hundreds – hundreds. I read: « Spain needs a psychiatrist; it is obvious and urgent, because even one trembles at the level to which the tortured Spanish brain has reached. This is about Spain, isn't it? Let's talk about the Catalans. « Who would dare say one, one of these Spaniards who live with us, that has meant something in the history and progress of humanity. Third: "There is a risk that the nation will be torn apart like a sugar in a glass of milk, intertwined between the immigration avalanche, the monstrous fiscal expoliation and a globalization that only treats with respect those who belong to the world order, the states. « Immigrating avalanche; the lord of the republic for all. Attention. But for me I think of the worst... I don't know if we'll find any worse, than surely, but this is really disgusting. It's called "The tongue and the beasts: "Now look at your country and see the beasts speak again, but they are of another kind, carrots, vipers, hyenas, beasts with human form, however, that sip hate. A disturbed, nauseating hatred, like dentures postulates with mold, against everything that represents the language – the Catalan language. "They are here, among us; they dislike any expression of catalanity, it is a sick phobia. Attention, huh? « There is something Freudian in these beasts. Or a little patch in his DNA chain. Poor individuals! They live in a country they don't know everything about: their culture, their traditions, their history. They walk waterproof to any event that represents the Catalan fact. He creates them urticaria. It ricochets off everything other than Spanish and Spanish. They have names and surnames, beasts. We all know one. Abundant, beasts. They live, die and multiply. One of them starred the other day in an incident that has not arrived in Catalonia and deserves to be explained as an example of the extraordinary bestiality of these beings. Poor beasts, they can't do more. And then you explain that you were a gentleman who filed a complaint because you were spoken to in Catalan in an airline and the gentleman did not like it, which I do not share at all. But, well, "poor beasts. This you said now, what was it? , the fruit of the journalistic work? Excuse me, don't compare journalism with xenophobia and racism, please! [[Greetings.]] Don't compare it, huh? Don't compare it. [[The applause continues.]] Is this journalism? Is this journalism? Is this journalism? Gentlemen of Esquerra, the CUP and Junts per Catalunya, is this journalism? You said the other day: "We are going to focus on internationalizing the process. What you are going to achieve is to internationalize your articles; that is going to be internationalized. If independence thinks – it thinks – that with this gentleman at the front they are going to internationalize the process, it seems to me that they have cut off contact with reality, huh? , contact with reality. If independence ever thought that it had any option to get away with it, today it is buried by appointing this candidate as president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, it is buried. And I feel a huge disbelief that this is happening in my country. That this gentleman who refers to human beings, to millions of Catalans, as human-shaped beasts living among us – to gentlemen who make a claim because they do not like the Catalan to be used –..., to these gentlemen who say that « our nation is threatened to be torn like a sugar in a glass of milk by the immigration avalanche..., this gentleman you are going to make today president of the Generalitat. But what is more, it is even more outrageous, is that at the moment there is a gentleman who has given a coup d'état which is in Berlin, who is fleeing justice, and who is going to delegate the vote without the Government of Spain appealing to the Constitutional Court. [[Greetings.]] You said in your speech on Saturday: "It is not normal in a democratic country what is happening in Catalonia. Totally agree, Mr. Torra. But not as far as you are concerned that the rulers have to comply with the laws or go to justice when they skip it, no, no; that you are president of the Generalitat and that there is a man who has escaped from justice after a coup against democracy, who can delegate the vote to make you president without the Government of Spain trying to appeal to the Constitutional Court is not normal in a democratic country – it is not normal in a democratic country. [[Greetings.]] But I am not just going to focus on your articles, because you also have to listen to what you say as a presidential candidate, your speech from Parliament. We listened very carefully to it on Saturday, and you came to reaffirm yourself; all that gave rise to the intervention of 155, you reaffirm it, you claim it and you say you will overcome it, which follows. He will only obey the Parliament; therefore, not the courts. Perfect. But there is only one thing that really puts my hair at the top; it says: "No, it is that we are here to recover the institutions. Institutions? The Parliament that you want to replace with an elected assembly where there will only be independenceists? If you don't want to get it back, you want to close it, you want to replace it! [[Greetings.]] You want to replace Parliament; get it back, no. When you have it, you have it only months talking about independence, months; when you..., before you intervened for 155, months without convening the Health Commission, Social Affairs... And now you say you want it back to make an assembly of elected only independenceists! You want to replace Parliament. And with the government exactly the same thing. The Government of the Generalitat, the one chosen in Catalonia, the one ruling in Catalonia, the one complying with the laws, if you want to replace it with... What's this little boy's name? The Executive Council? The council of the republic, isn't it? It wants to charge the Parliament, it wants to charge the Government, and it also says that the person we are going to elect here today is not the President of the Generalitat, but the President of the Generalitat is the one who is in Berlin. But what institutions do you want to recover? If you want to load them all! If here we defend recovering the institutions, this Parliament, where we are all represented, a government here in Catalonia, ruling Catalonia and complying with the laws in Catalonia, a president who has been elected with the Parliament, if these are us. If you don't want to get anything back, you want to break it more. I will tell you one thing, Mr Torra: I do not want a Parliament of Catalonia where your voters are not represented – I do not want a Parliament of Catalonia where your voters are not represented. And that's what you want to do with that assembly. You want to leave unrepresented voters who are not like you, who don't think like you, these..., I don't know how you..., I can choose some of the ratings of your countless articles. Here we want a parliament for all of us, here we want to get back the Parliament for real it's us, not you. I mean, you want 155 back; of course, if that's what you want. Why? Because they can't rule any other way. And today I suppose that after the speech of the other day, which said nothing social, which in the reply said nothing social, today makes the telephone list, has recovered it from Mr Turull. I want to ask a question, because I have not understood it very well: all those things that you say you are going to do, that you are going to do them in five months, that it is the provisional government, or that you are going to do them when the republic arrives? I understand this is it, don't I? Because a provisional government, which is here to make a constitution, an assembly, a council, I don't know what, the 155 commission, man, all this is not going to be able to do. Or is it like in the republic? We'll have the manna in the republic, won't we? Everything will be wonderful, fantastic. Shall I tell you what's going to happen? That neither you nor any of you will lead us to an independent republic, nor any of you will fulfill everything you have said here today. I'll let you know, just in case you have any doubts – some doubts. Besides, do you know what's going on? That of everything you have said in social matters there are many things I agree with; we have been claiming many of the things you have promised here for years. Moreover, I have seen the same promises to Mr. Mas, Mr. Puigdemont, Mr. Turull, now I see them to you... By the way, Mr. Mas had the decency to hold an individual debate with the rest of the presidential candidates and the rest of the parliamentary groups and so have a little more dialogue; you already – neither Mr. Puigdemont, nor Turull – nor that. But, well... Everything he said today isn't going to do it, they're not going to do it. But do you know why? Because to do so requires consensus in this chamber. I would like to start talking about industry, Mr Torra, I would like to know what your industrial model is for Catalonia; I would love to talk about infrastructure. By the way, he said today: « The Mediterranean Corridor. But do you know that the Mediterranean Corridor is to connect us better with the rest of Spain and with Europe? If your project is to disconnect us from Spain and the rest of Europe! But what Mediterranean corridor are you going to do? [[Greetings.]] In fact, the best way to ensure that the Mediterranean Corridor project is paralysed is the independence of Catalonia, because it would no longer make sense for a land outside the European Union to have all the resources and priorities; other corridors would be prioritized. But, well, if you really don't mind. In fact, I'm going to get back some of the things you said about the suspended laws. There are laws passed in this Parliament that have not been suspended in a coma, nor in an article, of 2003, 2004, 2006, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2014, on issues of children, accessibility, vocational training, employment, social affairs, which have not been developed by his Government. Why? Because you've been through other things. Why? Because – I get his sentence back; I love it – « I've decided that I'm only interested in independence. I can see that. But you and many who have preceded you. He said before: "No, it is that the laws are suspended from us. I don't know if Mr. Salvadó is here... I'm going to retrieve one of Mr. Salvadó's e-mails. I was talking about a law, wasn't I? He says: "We have done so against internal reports, that this did not hold up for the place, and that we would pick up – forgive – blood afterwards. We've repeated endless times that we've been playing at a different risk. And, attention, now comes the best sentence: "I hope the Constitutional will suspend it, because, if not, we're getting a ridiculous scarecrow. [[Greetings.]] This is what you have done: you have not dedicated yourselves to governing. And I have told you many times, when Mr. Mas was there, when Mr. Puigdemont was there: you can't promise the impossible. If there are always going to be needs that the government, perhaps, cannot reach. But, man, when you have a priority, which is independence, you leave everything else. There are autonomous communities with the same resources or less than we have other priorities, and I can give you data, as I told you the other day. He didn't rebut one, he didn't give any explanation to any of the data and questions I asked him. He didn't answer anything. In fact, as I have time limitation, and you did the other day about Turull, I again refer to my Saturday speech, to see if you, who have no time limitation, answer me some of the things I asked you in my other speech. We have 151 days, for example, in Tarragona, to go on a date with the dermatologist. We have in Figueres 167_days waiting to go with the ophthalmologist or 122_days in Lleida to make a resonance. But what's going on? That you've decided he's only interested in independence. And when the republic arrives there will be no waiting lists, when the republic arrives there will be no social problems. Let's get to work, because the republic's not coming. I mean, it's that the problems are now, the 167_days are now; you can't expect when you bring the manna from heaven, which is the imaginary republic. And on those waiting lists are all: our voters, whom you want to let have representation in Parliament, and yours; they are all, on those waiting lists. He doesn't want to talk. How are you going to talk to people you consider... all these things? – I don't want to repeat it. No, he doesn't want to talk. But I say to him: the dialogue will return in Parliament. When you stop having that fictitious majority in the institutions, when you are finished with the chollo, when you are truly exposed at international level, you will return consensus and dialogue to this Parliament and we will have a Catalonia for all. But what's going on? That with you, then, we will have to wait a lot longer – we will have to wait a lot longer. And today, that you become president, I will become the leader of the opposition. And I say to the opposition, to the rest of the parliamentary forces that we form the opposition of Catalonia, that we represent 53_per_cent of the population, that in view of the gravity of what we are going to have in front of me, as leader of the opposition, I will try to be as united as possible, to seek consensus, to seek proposals in social matters, in economic matters, in the fight against corruption, to make proposals that make it clear that what Mr Torra wants is not what the majority wants or what all the citizens of Catalonia deserve; that we do not want to make an assembly that replaces this Parliament and eliminates the opposition of the Parliament. I, as leader of the opposition, undertake to make this call to make this impulse of work from the opposition, and with the government I would love to be able to negotiate, with a government of the Generalitat, to carry forward laws, priorities, proposals, I would love. But with you I think it's going to be very difficult, but very, very, very difficult. All you have to do is know what you think of us, of millions of Catalans. How hard it's gonna be for you to see us here every day, right? Mr. Torra, knowing what you think of us. That's hard. But, as I was telling you the other day, we're not going to get tired and Citizens are going to be here, leading the alternative, leading the opposition. Why? Because they gave us victory in the polls. But we are democrats and we have to respect an electoral law that the Spanish government, the PP and the Socialist Party have wanted to maintain, which gives you a majority that allows you to govern. Here we are. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes: the Electoral Law gives a parliamentary majority to you who do not have in the ballot box, you give a parliamentary majority that you do not have in the ballot box. That's right, whether you like it or not, Mr. Torra. We would still be the most voted force, in votes and in seats, with a fair law, we would still have more difference of seats with the second voted force and above we could have some chance to seek a consensus – that you have taken six months, huh? , by the way – to rule in Catalonia. But we have to wait and we will lead, as we did in the last parliamentary term, comrades, the social and economic proposals of this Parliament, designed for all Catalans, not only for those who vote for us. And we're going to do it, because history repeats itself. It is not new what these gentlemen propose, it is not new what Mr Torra proposes. It is not the first time that it is directed at groups of people like animals with human form that reproduce and that are impermeable to the culture of the country where they live. You are not original, you have not invented it; you have assumed it, many before said the same thing to you. History repeats itself, and it is up to us, comrades and comrades, to confront us with this speech again. It seemed unthinkable, didn't it? , in the Europe of the 21st century, in the European Union of the 21st century, to meet again with these identity and exclusive speeches, with these speeches that say that the nation suffers the danger of the invasion of immigration, with these speeches not to recognize part of the people, not to recognize part of the Catalans, because you call us « Spaniards living in Catalonia. It is not new, as I say, to say that human beings are beasts or animals. It is not new to say that there is a group of people who only know how to steal or spoil. It's not new, Mr. Torra, what you represent, much less, is past. It is not new to feel superior in terms of your language, in terms of your culture. It is not new to find an outside enemy, who is guilty of everything, that when we eliminate it, when we get rid of that outside enemy, we will be very happy and we will be rich and we will not have social problems. It's not new, Mr. Torra. But what is new is that, unlike many of those who have faced this speech, we are lucky to be in the Europe of the 21st century, which is new, in a country like Spain. And it is not going to be easy, because, before all those people who have spoken of insolidity, as you advocate, who speak of stealing, of the danger of the nation, of culture, of language, we are going to have to defend equality, we are going to have to defend solidarity, we are going to have to defend union, we are going to defend tolerance and diversity. You said in one of your articles, more or less: "What a pity, the streets are no longer like those of my grandparents and my parents. I like the streets of the 21st century much more than the streets of the 19th century, Mr. Torra, much more. [[Greetings.]] With diversity, with more freedom – with more freedom – Mr Torra ; with more diversity, with more tolerance, with more languages, with more nationalities; with more diversity, with more rights within a European Union. I like them a lot better. I know that nationalism always comes back to the past, it's past, it's anachronistic. What you represent is past, but we have to represent what the future is – what the future is. And we are going to do it – we are going to do it – and we have to be worthy heirs of those who before we have fought this; we have to be strong and we have to move on, and we are going to do it. And here we are going to rebuild a project for all Catalans; also for those who vote for you. For nationalism, where it has prevailed, has harmed all; also the people who have supported these these theses. But we're going to get over each other. I, in spite of everything, am optimistic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.5.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.6.0	Yes, five seconds, Mr. President. I just passed, just. History makes us heirs to others who fought before us against what Mr Torra represents today, against what independence today, with its vote, accepts in a way I think very unintelligent, as I told them the other day. What we represent is to fight for equality, for solidarity, for union, for diversity, for tolerance, for a parliament of all Catalans...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.7.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.8.0	... and not just some, this – this – is going to win in the future, because I say to you: fighting nationalism in the Europe of the 21st century is not an option, it is an obligation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.9.0	Mr Sergi Sabrià, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, then has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.10.0	Good morning, good morning, sabah al-khair, good morning, no hao, sabah al-jair, good morning. Good morning, very honourable Speaker of Parliament, Members, Members of Parliament, relatives of prisoners and exiles who are with us today, candidate Torra, lords and lords. I wanted to start by greeting them in seven languages, sure that very poorly pronounced, seven languages of what they are talking about every morning in our streets; all the way, to Palafrugell and to Sant Vicenç dels Horts. They are the diversity and richness of the people of this country, of the citizens of Catalonia. We are a people of peoples, we are a nation where there is everyone; people, some of them, who have been here for six hundred years, like the gypsy people; others only a few decades ago; others, for a long time. They are Catalans because this country converts into Catalans all those who want to live there and want to form part of it. That's what we are, that's what we want to be. A country... [[Greetings.]] A country built from the diversity of its people, we don't understand it any other way. Diversity makes us as rich as societies and more prepared for the global world; diversity enlarges us as a people and makes us stronger – it makes us stronger – at the time of embarking on the path of freedom. As the party and the parliamentary group try to reflect it every day. We will also want to do so in our decisions and in our areas in this government that will begin tomorrow. This country has built it among all, based on the arrival of a great many people – a great many people – from the world; first in the Spanish State and, later, with the arrival of people from all regions and continents of the world. And they are all citizens of Catalonia and want a country that is more just and more ready and more worship; yes, more worship, because more worship is also more free. ERC has followed and will continue to feel, now also from the government, the guarantee that this diversity is put in value every day and is old for the rights of all, all, all of citizenship, permanently. For us, the social struggle is absolutely indestriable from the struggle for freedom. The Republic is the eine, the initial and essential objective for building a fairer society, our objective, the Left object of the past eighty-seven years. And social struggle, the bet for social policies, is the best way to work for the republic and also – also – to make us republicans. This is the "republic fact", which we carry so many days defending: working from the government, from the parliament, from the assemblies and from everyone and from every space to become a modern and forward-looking society; a society referring to its struggle for civil rights, for social rights; a more just society, which guarantees equal opportunities for citizens free. And every time we are more than we know that among the Kingdom of Spain this will not be possible. Working for the republic is working for these social goals and putting an end to a dark stage; social policies to make the republic and the republic to build among all a better society, with the values of the republicans of always: freedom, equality and brotherhood; working together for a society that jointly cares for the backs of the future, in addition to differences, but above all aiming at the timing that we have to build among all and among all. And do it with the government and from the government, just like the Republican Left we've been complaining about for months and months. A government makes us stronger and places us in a much better position to help our people. We have felt alone in many moments demanding it, but no one understands this as a complaint, on the contrary: we are very pleased – very pleased – to find ourselves here today in the mood and with the majority enough to do so for the sake of reality. And I'm running with a lot of work to do from diversity and for diversity. And at this point I want to thank and highlight the words of apology of Mr. Quim Torra. Having done it today and here before taking charge of the honor, it is brave – and it does not laugh – and allows us to face the future with optimism and conviction that we will work together to build a much better society and a much better future for all, all, all Catalans. One of the first challenges we have, of course, is to face repression, the permanent violation of fundamental rights in Catalonia. It is necessary to fight with all strength, all determination, because people today are busy, because people today in exile, innocent people who are guilty only of having followed the people's mandate and made a reference, can return home with their families. We also have to work because we can write free books, so that we can put the letters we want to our songs, to grab Twitter and exercise freedom of expression, because the right of vague and the right of protest are guaranteed and because the colors and the links are never again forbidden. We want a country where freedom comes out of prison and corruption comes in at once. [[applause]] ; a company on the Oriol, the Carmel, the Dolors, in Quim, the Jordis, in Josep, in Raül remain at home, and the Urdangarin, in Mouse, in Bárcenas and in Millet remain at the garjola [[applause]] A country where fascism does not have foundations, nor can it go intimidating for the streets joyfully; a country where the police did not catch the people who want to vote or persecuted political ideas; a country where they do not chase the ballot boxes. Today, the Republic is the only way to guarantee the political and individual rights of all the citizens of Catalonia. If we want independence – if we want independence – it's because we want to live in democracy. And that's why we have a common front for all democrats, all democrats in the Spanish State. The configuration of a government is also the way to institutionalize the conflict; the government must be one more tool to combat repression. That's why we also made the proposal to dissipate the creation of the office of civil and political rights to analyze all violations of rights, which you work to stop this fexism shut down on the street. It will also be necessary to continue working from most Republicans to continue growing. We want to continue to build a solid and indisputable majority in Catalonia in favor of the republic. We want to convince more people every day, also through government action. We need to make progressive policies and put the government at the disposal of the people, in contrast to a state that doesn't, a state that uses the government against its citizens. I also believe that everyone can participate in the construction of the country. We want to talk to everyone and listen to everyone. We propose, in line with what candidate Torra also gave, a great dialect of country with vocation constitute; we want to listen to everyone, that no one feels excluded from the construction of a more free country. It will be one of the first great setbacks, and the main one will be breaking down barriers; otherwise it would serve a dialog between the 2_million citizens that we are already convinced that without a republic there is no future. It's time to reach everyone, every raccoon in Catalonia, every barrio and every town, listen and talk to everyone, and let everyone tell you theirs. Only this – only this – can this dialog be fruitful and truly a basis for a process constitute. A country that we want and demand with equal opportunities for everyone; a feminist country, an ecological country, a country that respects the rights of animals, a country with republican values as the main presentation letter. As we have pointed out in the past few days, we must also continue to fight on the international judicial front. From the international judicial front, no doubt, good news will arrive; it will be the front of when the Catalan case arrives at the Court of Strasbourg, which – I have no doubt – will arrive there. Finally, as this government and society continue to walk side by side. The mobilization on the street, always civic, always peaceful, has been and must continue to be one of the phonative potes, based on the principles of civil disobedience, from the pau and the pau, but with determination, like every 11th of September, as the 1st of October and as the 3rd of October. So, to fight repression and violation of rights, but at the same time build the country we want, the first one we need to do, and today we are not taking the most important step, is to recover the country's institutions. We have the Parliament, and today, now we will have the first piece to get the government back. And we'll be warm, so, from now on, and with this government, working on all the fronts that stood out and that stood out again today. The passage: democratic front, expansion of the social majority, internationalization of the cause and citizen mobilization in the street. The Republic is our opportunity to make a better country. As I said yesterday in Pere Aragonés, the republic will be socially fair or not, will be inclusive and inclusive or not, will be open and transversal or will not be. It's a republic, with the strength of the parties, seducing everyone, explaining to us, explaining well, hugging everyone, that we're still expanding the social base. In short, the republic is at once one more of the struggles that we have shared until today, but also the synthesis of all of them, and the opportunity, too, to guarantee its effectiveness. So now we wait for you and we need you, which I am not yet, at our side; all those you have been in other fights, you also have to be there now, the same way that they and the republicans are in your fights. This has to build a better country between everyone and everyone, in favor of everyone, against no one. We are the heretics of those who proclaimed the republic in the thirties, of those who defended it before the fascism. We are the children and nets of those who have exiled or suffered the dictatorship. We're clear of those who had to raise straight barrels with their hands, of those who had to put the claves on the street. We are children of whom they fought for teaching in Catalonia and why this teaching was in Catalan. We are the children of those who guaranteed equal opportunities for all citizens. We were together on the street, in Sant Boi, on the 76th, when we cried "freedom, and we were part of the ones that we collected signatures in favor of avortage free the year 79. We are the people of the Assembly of Catalonia, the people of the Caputxins. We worked folds to defend people without papers to the Church of the Pi. We're the ones we camped for 0.7_per_cent. And the ones we cried for Sarajevo. We've always fought together because everyone looks like you and looks like who you want. We are the ones who believe that all people are the same, neither men nor women. We cried out "No to war, we fought together against the transfer of the Hebrew, we went out to the street to say that we wanted to gather. We made October 1 possible and went out together on the 3rd of October. We are the ones who have felt unbeliefed, with, with anger, the threatening words of a monarch who no longer represents us if he had ever represented us. And now they can't stand us, they can't even divide us. If we have shared one and a thousand struggles, all to build a better country, now there is only one way: to fight for the republic. Because defending the republic is defending the country, it is defending the great consensus that we have achieved until today. Because what is in danger today is the model of Catalan school born in the eighth century in Santa Coloma de Gramenet, a model of success and a model of consensus. And also, and most especially, each and every one of the professionals, of the masters as far as possible. Those teachers who come into class every day to help and teach our children; professionals who one day and another are assigned and asked questions when they do work for the people of this country. Like squadron moves, public media workers, like firefighters, like meths, like health personnel. We are at your side, as always, for them and for their work. For all of them and for all of the citizens, today we take a very important step: to recover the Generality of Catalonia; to recover it to put it back in the hands of the citizens of Catalonia, to be able to be at the side of the public workers, in short, to put the country back on the march another time. As we said, we want to make a government for a republic. Now is the time to take up the initiative, to take political action, to move the country forward. A government that will have to be, by force, of resistance; a government that will be fought, because it will continue to have before the repression of an absolutely delegitimate state, which today already threatens us again another time with 155; of a state complicated by the double defeat: of '1 October and 21 December. And before that, we, self-requirement. We will demand, every day, that it be a solvent, competent government, concerned about social cohesion and that it guarantee freedom and social justice. It should be that all sectors of this country note the cool air that will be the recovery of the government, and resume the course, as a consequence of 155. As we have already announced, it will be necessary to set aside a plan to analyse all the consequences of this 155 by, immediately thereafter, referring to all that the State has undertaken to halt, boycott, eliminate. That's why we think it's essential to place the social struggle at the centre of everything. We have social deures that can't wait. And I will not list just a few, all coincident with the candidate's proposal: to deploy guaranteed income; to set aside the Comprehensive Plan against energy poverty; to promote the strategic agreement against sensillarism; to guarantee, despite the Constitutional Court, universal access to salvation – everyone must have the right to be attuned; immigrants also, lords of Ciutadans – [[applause]] ; defend, protect and promote the Catalan school model. Examples of urgent policies; in some cases, they are pending; in many others, interrupted by 155. Also in the economic sphere, and despite the recent successes of the past few months, it is a new impulse. Finally, we must take up the challenge of reforming the ICF in order to move forward with a proposal for a Catalan public bank; we must give up a plan of action against job insecurity, or we must take up, perfi, the challenge of dual vocational training. We want... and, for that reason, as we said, disbanded, today we will give support to candidate Quim Torra. We want to lead, together with the companies sorted for Torra, this execution. We will put our political, organizational and personal capital in the service of this shared project, to continue working to make the Republic come true from all directions where we are still present. We will continue to be the most faithful member of the people of Catalonia, as we have been for eighty-six years. And we'll do it harder than we've ever done on the road before, because we're closer than ever, because it's victory time. A victory that will be for all a people without exclusions: when the republic wins, we win all. And I don't want to end up without remembering prisoners and exiles. They have led and made it possible for us to stay here today; we do so for them and for their families who are accompanying us today. We give it all to complete the work it took. October 1st, October 3rd and December 21st. They don't make us for it. We never give up: we persist, we persist and we persist. We persist and continue to struggle to be, as in 1640, as in 1714, as in year 36, as in 39, as in 78, as in 81. We persist in winning freedom. Because, as Oriol Junqueras often tells us, the important questions to life such as freedom, dignity, justice, democracy or independence of this country are not asked, they are won at the polls and defended from the institutions and from every reason of this country; also from factories, universities, social entities or unions, as we will again do from today. To victory all the time! Visca Catalunya! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.11.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. It is now the return, on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of its president, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.12.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. candidate, this session will be very different from the one on Saturday, because yesterday the doubt went away. Today we know that the candidate proposed for Carles Puigdemont will be invested with the votes of Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra Republicana and the forbearance of the CUP. We cannot say that we will respect Parliament's decision and the legitimacy of the presidency, when its exercise is produced in the current legal framework, which is the only legitimate source we recognize. Today, of course, you have spoken to us more about concrete issues and the concrete work of government. I'm sorry, maybe I'll give you a brief summary that you might find unfair: today you told us that you would do what those who support you wear years to do, but in five months. This is the summary of what we've seen. We would like to raise the debate today, knowing the result, from another point of view; we would like to raise four great questions. The first will respect the legal framework in force. We would like to know if it is possible – the second – to assume that Catalonia is formed for all the citizens of Catalonia; also those who speak Spanish or other languages and Catalans who feel Spanish too. And some of the expressions he used this morning make us suppose he did. Thirdly, we would like to know what their contribution to respect, among the Catalans, will be to avoid the fracture and bring society back. And four: we'd like to know how you intend to establish the dialog you're talking about. I, for one, am starting. First we would like to remember the legal mark, nor that it remains very brief. Read the article according to the Law of the Presidency of the Generality, which says the following: "The President of the Generality has the highest representation of the Generality ; he also has the ordinary representation of the State in Catalonia. The President or President of the Generality directs and coordinates the action of the Government. Here there is no assembly of elects, no council of the republic, no craze of gaita; I mean there is what there is. And we would like your action to be adjusted precisely to what our laws say. It is especially important that the President knows what establishes the Statute of Autonomy; among other things, because you have the inexcusable obligation to adjust your actions and decisions to the content of the Statute. I'll only read four articles, because I think there's enough to get started. First: "Article 1. Catalonia, like its nationality, exercises its self-government constituted in an autonomous community, in accordance with the Constitution and this Statute, which is its basic institutional norm. "Article 2.4. The powers of the Generality emanate from the people of Catalonia and are exercised in accordance with what they establish this Statute and the Constitution. "Article 3. The relations of the Generality with the State are based on the principle of mutual institutional loyalty and are governed by the general principle according to which the Generality is State, by the principle of autonomy, bilaterality and multilateralism. 3.2. Catalonia has in the Spanish State and in the European Union its political and geographical area of reference and incorporates the values, principles and obligations arising from the fact of forming part of it. Article 7. Point 1: « Gaudeixen of the political condition of Catalans or citizens of Catalonia the Spanish citizens who have administrative status in Catalonia. Political rights are exercised in accordance with this Statute and laws. Point 2: "As in Catalans, they rejoice in the political rights defined for this State, the Spanish foreigners who have had in Catalonia the last administered and also the descendants who maintain this citizenship, if they so request in the way that they determine the law. That's enough to guide you. And someone may say: "Home, but that can change. Effectively. Now, in order to change, it is necessary, in order to begin, at least the support of ninety deputies and deputies of this chamber; neither of the council of the republic, nor of the assembly of elects, nor of the community of friends or the people we go from coast to coast. And I think it's important that we know this and internalize it, because the word games and this logo that we sometimes set up in Parliament did not bring any results and more than a disgust. Therefore, neither the processes constitute nor the Catalan constitution project have anything to do with our legal framework. It is possible to initiate constitutional and statutory reform processes through the legal mechanisms envisaged and the appropriate parliamentary majority. Given the experience of the previous legislature, I do not seem to insist on this question. I have already informed you, Mr. candidate, that we would not want your presidency to be the zero zone of our self-government institutions. We would not want the evil of institutions to destroy our self-government; a self-government that is of all Catalans, think as they think. I will tell you in another way: since we do not want Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to apply it again, we encourage it not to provoke it again, as happened on the 6th and 7th of September, 1st of October and 27th of October of the past year. Perhaps someone was surprised to read Article 7 of the Statute, which defines the political condition of Catalans. It's my way of saying again that they're as Catalans speaking Catalan as they are speaking other languages. It's my way of saying that they're as Catalan the independenceists as they are not. It's my way of saying that they're as Catalan as they just feel Catalan as they share or have other feelings of identity. Disappointed, in a very good intervention, Xavier Domènech tried to get you to tell him what he thought of Spaniards and Spaniards. Today we know that what I would like is to have a republic; that... today we have a little more clarity. I have no hope that I will answer the background of Xavier Domènech's question, but I will do another similar force: what do you think of Catalans and Catalans who feel Spanish and Spanish too? Because the theme is not tweets, the theme is not articles, the theme is not interviews and lectures, the theme is not so much a questionable admiration for Daniel Cardona or the Germans Badia or Nosaltres Sols! ; the theme is whether for you you only deserve the political condition of català that person you speak català or feel Catalan and prou. And that's the question. When you look at Catalonia, do you see us all or just part of it? Do you think there are good or bad Catalans? That the bad Catalans are the ones who also feel Spanish? That the Spaniards and those who feel Spanish are the enemy? And someone will say: "Home, if this morning he has already said things that point in a different direction. You're right. But it's that I hooked him up with a fake, Mr. Candidate. You, disbanded, said you were missing that P.C.S. from the 80s. Clearly, and I said to him, "I won't find any tweets. And, of course, I didn't find any tweets. But I did find an article, dated May 13, 2011, entitled ‘The PSC and the Catalan goat. You can say it already, you fucking hemerotec. I read the second paragraph of that article. "The last time he saw a copy of a Catalan socialist many years ago, in the mid-seventies of the past century, his name was Josep Pallach. In fact, the race of the Catalan socialist, who during the Republic counted with a considerable branch and some names of prestige, like Serra and Moret or Rafael Campalans, had entered a process of inevitable decay with the barrier with the race of Spanish socialism. Hopes... [[Widow's remorse.]] Forgive me, leave me, because I'm still... to say the least, it's better. « Hopes laid on the copy Josep Pallach, unfortunately they were frustrated by an premature death. That accelerated the end of it. The growth of the race of the Spanish socialist increased and increased until they changed the proper DNA of the natives. Today nothing is more like a Catalan socialist than a Spanish socialist. The old and honorable race of the Catalan socialist must be given by extinction, even though, in a totally scientific way, there are certain individuals who claim to be continuants. Listen, the problem is not a tweet – the problem is not a tweet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.13.0	One moment—one moment—, Mr. Iceta, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.14.0	And you talk about race with this disemboltura... And you said, "No, I find myself missing in Pallach, in Raventos and in Maragall. No, no, you seem to only find him missing in Pallach, because he already considered them, the way you do, spitefully, Spanish. And is that ethnicity or not? Are you supremacism or not? What the hell is this? Miri, we have the story we have. Normally, one feels proud of his story. In all history there are questionable elements, naturally. But this is the question: no Catalan socialist ever considered questions of identity passing over the concept of citizenship. And we say this for the Catalan Socialists, and we could also say this about the companies of the PSU, of the trade union movement, of the people who actually called for freedom, amnesty and autonomy. A tradition that, among other things, allowed us to govern folds. In Sergi Sabri's long story, we found something missing that we shared together. You, of course, have made President Montilla president – I will relieve you of the reading of the things your presidential candidate thought about that political operation today, because I do not do that. [[Widow's remorse.]] Miri, our country has an identity that is plural, and any essentialism is an amputation of our people. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, you cannot vote for him, Mr. candidate, future president. It's strange to us that some people can vote for it without retribution, but, finally, that's not our topic. And you invited me, the other day..., said: "Someday we will have to talk about this about Catalanism and independence. I said – and I was right –: "This is not the time. But I've always wanted to find him a couple of quotes that we understand. For example, you say he liked Rafel Campalans very much. So, listen to me, he says: « For us the Catalan country wants to say above all the group of men who live in Catalonia – now it would have said « of men and women» – « and they have a collective will of coexistence and progress, they come from the lands that come. [[Someone's applauding.]] The Tarradellas, which seems even more important to me, because it's a concept that's even more inclusive. Says Tarradellas: "Catalunya is a big country because we don't understand all the small ones because we can dispense with someone. Stay with Tarradellas, make Tarradellas. [[Greetings.]] Not to mention Joan Reventós, you're more suspicious, at least with his thoughts, aren't you? But he said: "The renunciation of doctrinalism – and he did not speak of you – is a bet for Catalanism which is understood as a citizenry which must be combined and not divided, civilized and not fanatized. These are us. And, therefore, it is not the time, but there is a theme. The conception of the Catalan nation: are we part of the Catalan nation all the citizens of Catalonia, as defined by the Statute, or not? Can it be Catalan without sharing the independence project or not? Or maybe a little help or a special treatment? Because no... don't think we're only worried about these ideological foundations that we seem to have, it's that we're worried about the project that went through. Because he says: "Our project is to make a republic. And I'm telling you, even though most Catalans haven't shared this project. I don't know how he's going to do it because what I'm saying is, if the republic wants to make the nation worse, this republic doesn't serve us. If, in order for the republic to break the civil unit, this republic will be harmful. And if the republic is to break the laws that regulate our coexistence, it will end as the rosary of the dawn, or it will continue with the campal battle, which is as the rosary of the dawn ended. You accepted the interim presidency and by delegation. If that were only your concern, we wouldn't have much to say; but it is that the presidency of the Generality is not a personal issue, it is a political and institutional issue. And we are convinced that the provisionality and acceptance of a higher authority, is said Carles Puigdemont, the council of the republic, the assembly of electors or the sursum corda, is a hard mistake that, in a way that is almost inexorable, will remain the authority and credibility of our highest institution of self-government. I know it's very difficult to think about it that I want to do right now, and therefore I ask you to take it as a reflection that we will have to follow and do among all of us. We have a problem in this country with public space. We've all seen how the UK wear political symbols is banned in a football camp for the protagonists of the competition. It's the bressol of democracy. You said you want the Palau of the Generalitat to have a big, fat place, I suppose. Don't you think there's a risk that someone thinks institutions only serve those who share that feeling? [[Widow's remorse.]] It's a risk, and I'm telling you this: take it home as a reflection that we have to do, so that the right to freedom of expression of feelings and the solidarity that many can feel for companions, friends, relatives or fellow citizens who are patenting a particular judicial process is also prevalent. But we do reflect; for example, at school. Jo, if you don't class every day, I wouldn't bear the symbol of my party as a teacher in class. I don't think you're good. I, therefore, would have to do, in a way, to preserve certain spaces that must be of all people. This reflection..., that, I say, take it as it is..., imagine 'you are a court of opposition to go to public office: if anyone thinks that it can go better or worse depending on whether or not you carry a groceries, we would be drawing the sense of public service. Say: "If anyone thinks so. And, therefore, it's a reflection that I don't seem to be over. We need to support the free expression of feelings, and of political and even political positions, if necessary, with the preservation of a public space that is everyone's. And why am I telling you all this? Because, for us, it's still very important, as we said before, this notion of respect. A society divided like ours needs a special effort of respect. And the president of the generality is who can do more or can do much in this direction. And we told him that we would judge decisions and concrete actions, and therefore, it's not that I proposed a reset, that's not the case; but for us, it's much more important than what you do for an investment than anything you've done or said before you've been invested. I gave them today and we'll keep them. Now... third concern, I gave it to him. You proposed a dialect, and you said... – and we do not doubt your sincerity, absolutely – you said, in the castle, disbanded, talking to Rajoy, we would say indirectly, saying: "Do we speak, Mr. Mariano Rajoy? Are we, at once, sitting together at the same table, your Government and the Government of Catalonia? We are ready to dialogue tomorrow, without conditions, without vetoing anything, with the same institutional respect due between governments and the urgent need to bring politics back to politics, for us it will not remain. Totally agreed, president– future president. Now, no conditions? Are you sure we don't pose before the republic and the referendum on independence? Does that know about the CUP? An unconditional dialog means that, without conditions. But respect for the law and the mechanisms and majorities needed to change it is essential. We give things to negotiate possible. There are not many, I say a small task: the forty-six requests made by President Puigdemont, that if we leave the reference aside remain in forty-five; the development of the State, the recovery of elements eroded by the feeling through the reform of the corresponding organic laws; the financing – after speaking a little more – the state's investment in strategic infrastructures; themes related to the Catalan language, symbols and culture; themes related to the capitality of Barcelona; the federal constitutional reform. I asked him if he would be willing to comply with what we believe is his obligation to defend Catalonia's interests in the negotiation of finance, and I did not get an answer. You'll know. But from our point of view, there are many things to talk about on the way to a federal fiscal pact: an increase in resources, a fair system without discrimination, the guarantee of the application of the principle of regularity in final resources, the convergence between the foral and common rules, more fiscal co-responsibility, the tax consortium between the Catalan Tax Agency and the State Tax Administration Agency – collected in the State –, more simplicity and transparency, the withdrawal of the FLA, the relief and restructuring of the debt and the negotiation, also, of a new tax system. Mr. Candidate, you could get rid of some or all of these doubts. According to... I don't think he'll do it because with the global answer, and that's all a lot of things are lost, and because then, depending on what you say, if you share it, you could lose some support, and so it's probably not the day. Maybe he doesn't share, and there's all the right, our foundation. We wanted investiture and governance, but we might want a new stage too. It doesn't seem – it doesn't seem like it – as it does: elections in a few months, probably a lot of gesticulation, and probably some gesture of disobedience, if it's possible without consequences. I have to tell you – and the català I'm going to be serving now may not be entirely curos – « to know – « to know – – because, sometimes, one ends up so tied to that he said they end up making fatal mistakes. And I remember October 27th, right here. And if you said, you said, you said, you said... your margin was open, open, open... and finally, there... we were falling off the cliff and we decided to take a step forward. So I don't think it's what he expects, nor does he deserve our country or our society. If this were the way, the most harmed would be Catalan society, and also, I believe, would be a plan that would not advance its project nor would it serve the interests of those and those who expect judgment. So good it's not like that! So much good I'm wrong, or, even better, so much good you were able to go rectifying the course, which we would accompany you with. So much we have political stability, institutional normality, impulse to economic recovery, impulse to social policies and start a dialogue and negotiation with state institutions. I know that the concrete composition of the government doesn't really depend... – well, maybe it does, because after listening in Sabrià..., but, in other words... –, I didn't think it was really up to you; but, in any case, it will be your government, you will preside over it. It will be the first clear sign, this concrete composition, about whether you want to move forward to distension or you want to maintain or increase confrontation. You, you and everybody, we play a lot of games. Mr. President... – and I finish –, you know..., you know, why can you count on us and why not. I say this because here, as we've been doing for a long time, we know how we can work together and what things we can't. But I must say that the initiative and the responsibility will, from the vote, be yours if you win. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.15.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Next is the words of Mr Xavier Domènech, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.16.0	Today, after five months without self-government, with our institutions intervening, with a judicial intervention on the self-government of Catalonia and also with an inability to make a majority effective, we know, and we know it from yesterday, since the companies and companies of the CUP decided what they decided, that you, candidate Joaquim Torra, will be president. Catalonia's citizens expect government, Catalonia's citizens expect to be able to leave 155, Catalonia's citizens are tired of waiting among so many symbols; but let's not celebrate this government. We do not celebrate this government and believe – and we believe it from the deepest of convictions – that, in these five months, there has been plenty of time to do things infinitely better. And here I don't refer only to candidate Joaquim Torra, but to the conjunction of the independenceist majority of this chamber: I think you could have done things infinitely better. It is to be recognized that in this way you, today, have defined much more the government program perhaps than disbanded it. It's also true that coming up with an investiture with two days of knowing that he's a candidate, certainly, doesn't have to be easy. But today you have explained so many measures of government; but in this explanation there are phonemental questions, which we did the other day, which you have not answered, and which go much further than the headlines, which clearly indicate what is the direction of the government that is voted on today. Will you be doing a progressive fiscal policy? Yes or no? It's easy, huh? They're not complicated people. Are they going to make a progressive fiscal policy? Yes or no? Will you take back the consolidated details of the 2010 dell'Governor d'Artur Mas? Yes or no? It's very easy. You don't need to develop to answer this question. How do you position Catalonia before the phenomenon of globalisation? In favor of the TTIP, when do they vote for the Congress of Deputies? Or in favor, when it is said that defending the sovereigns... that defending shared sovereigns where the people can build their future. Yes or no? He talked about tax cuts based on returns. There's one thing more simple: that's when the Catalonian Parliament approved on June 2016, if I don't remember it wrongly, drop university taxes by 30_per_cent. Yes or no? It's easy, huh? You will bet to finance the Bressol schools, as the Generality did and it was decided that you are stopped unilaterally in this case, the Bressol schools of the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans? Yes or no? It's simple. So, all I'm saying is absolutely simple, it's a binary answer. Therefore, it would be worthwhile to challenge them, because sometimes, if not, you have asked here: "And what do we do to guarantee the right to housing? One simple thing: do not vote for the Congress of Deputies how to facilitate denunciations in this country. It's a simple thing to do. [[Greetings.]] And you're going to tell me now too, and I'm wondering, you've explained a very broad governance program – very broad, very broad – for five months. That is to say, if this government has to last five months, all that it has explained to us will not do so; no longer by default, but by inability to develop these five months. Will this government last five months? Yes or no? It's simple, too. Yes or no? And you, and you will be right, will appeal to exceptionality: this is not a normal government, the circumstances that the country has seen are not normal, and for an exceptional moment it is quite exceptional. Okay. In the field of exceptionality, I asked him another question; a question that we consider to be key also to know which government will be here and which president of the Generality will be here. And the question was simple: Mr. Joaquim Torra, what do you think of the Spaniards? And I'll do it another way: what do you think of Catalans? Because, in the end, the answer to this question is to know what you think of the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans, of those, of that majority who, with intense distinctness, also feel Spanish. What do you think? And I think the answer was simple. You have an arsenal to answer. In fact, Mr. Miquel Iceta has put back a few possibles; there is one, very old, which is "everyone who lives and works in Catalonia is Catalan and Catalan." He could have answered that, but he didn't. And I know, I recognize it, you asked here today..., he said: "I'm sorry, I'm sorry and I won't do it again. I appreciate it. Even so, it's a culture that I don't share, I mean, it's basically culture... which he said: "I won't do it again, I apologize for the culture of guilt, sin, redemption, atonement and forgiveness, which is a culture that I respect very much. I come from another, because Catalonia is very different. I'm coming from another. I believe much more in the responsibility than in Republican ethics, to be able to assert in position to what is thought, not to be constantly pendant of what has been said, because pendant of what has been said has not been made clear whether he is still thinking about it or not. In this sense, the answer to this question is absolutely claus, absolutely claus. The answer to what you think of Catalans and Catalans is so key that, beyond the measures of government, it is what will explain what action is, what is the basis of the primordial action that this Government will take. How do you plan to get out of the current situation and how do you plan to look to the future? Do you think you're going to do it with the whole country or just part of it, I think very small, from the country? And he hasn't answered, yet. And when one doesn't answer – I hope you do it now – when one doesn't answer – you're right about the speaker who preceded me, at the end of what will define his actions will be his government's work, but – when one doesn't answer this, it leads very easily to think that it is that he doesn't want to answer it or that, if challenged, he knows that he couldn't be president of the Generality of Catalonia. So you have to answer me. Because, look, my Catalonia is that of popular and progressive Catalanism. It's easy to answer. It is the Catalonia of Terradas, by Gabriel Alomar, it is the Catalonia of social republicanism and Catalanism. It is the Catalonia of Salvador Segui. It is also the Catalonia of Frederica Montseny. Is Frederica Montseny her Catalonia? It is the Catalonia of Companies, of the Company that proclaimed a republic, and when it proclaimed it said that it was "in solidarity with the Germans that in the Hispanic lands fight for freedom and the right, " in the Hispanic lands fight for freedom and the right. And that when he returned from prison, in this same chamber, he says, in this very Parliament, that "the government and every one of us must bear all those values and springs that we gather and exalt from the Catalan people, to serve him, inexhaustible and generous, vibrant of emotion and energy, ensuring peace and well-being and we must do so deeply with the peoples of Spain." Because companies understood the interdependencies, and they understood that the Catalan people were the Catalan people, and they understood that the Catalan people carry in their own if all the stories also of Spain. He fully understood this, and he understood that you are not free if the other is not free, that you cannot build your freedom by seeing or disconnecting absolutely from the freedom of others. This is my Catalonia, it is the Catalonia of the popular classes of Spanish and, today, of the world – and today of the world – that did not integrate into Catalonia. He explained it perfectly to us in a book by Alfonso Carlos Comín, with Juan García-Nieto. The migrants of the sixties did not integrate into Catalonia, they built it, because the migrants of the sixties were Catalonia because we are Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] It is the Catalonia of the ways that the barrels were built, that of the trade unionists that built our rights, that of the professionals, the students, the women and the citizenry that rebuilt our democratic reason. It is the Catalonia of all those who follow it today. Is 15-M Catalunya? Is that Catalunya, the 15-M? You're good to know. It is good to know that you answer that yes here, because reading some things would seem that for the President of the Generality the 15-M is not Catalonia. What is it for you Catalonia? Clearly, before the lack of response, we only have their tweets, the written ones, we have all this. And the feeling and image that we have left, which is drawn from this presidency, is that its Catalonia is not so alone nor the Catalonia of conservative Catalanism. I belong to progressive Catalanism, but it is not as lonely as conservative Catalanism. It is the Catalonia of the Badia Germans, and that of "our other suns. A "us" that has always ended up converting you into a "us" to exclude and exclude, exclude and exclude from our German peoples all over Spain, exclude and exclude also from Catalans. Because, Mr. Joaquim Torra, Catalonia is of all Catalans and Catalans. In a time when we need broad alliances, you seem to symbolize just the opposite. During these five months, things could have been done infinitely better, most of them independent. When you talk about transversality, when you talk about broad alliances, I think we have reached a point where you have disqualified much of the speeches you make every day. And I want to direct myself... because you have succeeded in making a majority effective, and this I must recognize: today you have succeeded in making the majority independent – and it did not seem easy – effective today. If you have succeeded in this, it is not because Mr. Carles Puigdemont has decided that you are president of the Generality or not. It is because the deputies and independent members of this chamber have decided that you are the candidate for the presidency of the Generality who wants, that you, Mr Joaquim Torra, is the future president of the Generality who wants both the Republican Left and, passively, seems to be accepting the CUP as well. And I want to complain..., I want to address these political forces of this chamber, forces that, like the Republican Left and the CUP, claim popular and left-wing Catalanism. You, within the independence bloc, have had five months to do things infinitely better. They've had five months. You have the majority in the Independence bloc. It's 36 MPs in front of 34. From the independence majority you have not been tired, well, of constantly explaining that the process was a progressive majority, that the process carried Catalonia to the left. And, in fact, you, of the independence bloc, are a majority of the left. Five months. A deep inability to propose a progressive candidate for the presidency of Catalonia. Things could have done a lot, a lot better. [[Some applause.]] And this path... And that I think is all a path and all a history that marks his own history, his path, and I think he's also part of his future. Because you have followed a unique and unique path, always of a greater good. This path has led them to the Republican Left of Catalonia, September 2013 – I remember perfectly –: « We will never approve autonomous assumptions. December 2013. The 2014 gener approved the assumptions of Artur Mas. A few years later, the CUP, 2017, said – in this case some assumptions made by Esquerra Republicana – that it would not approve some antisocial assumptions that shortly afterwards, also, in the face of a major good, ended up finally approving. Presumptions that consolidated 2,600_millions of detail, and I repeat: that consolidated 2,600_millions of detail, 600_millions in education– 600_millions of education; the defense of the Catalan school is not detailing it, too, it is not detailing it – ; 1,000_millions in sanitation, that perhaps there is something to see, these 1,000_millions in sanitation, with which we keep the lists of hope wider than the whole State. Maybe there's something they want to see these 1,000_million consolidated health care retailers. And something must also tend to see that you have not achieved, in all these years, a progressive taxation for this country, that in all this process of liberation there has not been a progressive taxation in this country. And that must also be seen, the progressive majority of the independence bloc, that the wealth of the most wealthy català per day today is equal to the income of 150,000 Catalans and Catalans, or that one of the four Catalans is at risk of poverty and 30 percent of the children of this country, too. I will say this in the words of a person whom I admire, Joan Tardà: "Damn the fathers, for Spaniards or Catalans who follow, to expel their children. "Woe to the fathers, whether Spanish or Catalan, who expel their children. [[Some applause.]] And all the rationalizations and justifications that will come today and come later, to explain why they have done all this during these years for a major good, disappear when in Barcelona, Republican Left and the CUP, vote against, these yes, the most social assumptions of the State. There's no major there. The good major is just speaking here. Vote against the housing plan, which multiplies the investment in housing by four. Vote against pushing the IBI to big properties. There is no greater good there– there is no greater good there–; here there is always a greater good that explains everything. Or we see how they also vote against, some, of the multiconsulta to municipalize water in Barcelona. Where's the right one left to decide everything, absolutely everything? Mirin, the last CEO says that 53 percent of Catalans and Catalans declare themselves to be leftovers and progressives. It is clear that in this chamber we are the only truly progressive force that remains in Parliament compromises with all the sovereigns. I don't say it with joy – I don't say it with joy. Disabte, Mr Sergi Sabrià..., Sergi – Salvador no, Sergi, Sergi. Mr. Sabrià, leave him alone. The Lord Sabri said to me: "Well, and what solutions do you bring, Lord Domènech? I have already commented to you that the presidential candidate was Mr. Joaquim Torra, that you have had five months to explain solutions that at these times seem more symbolic than real and that, moreover, you, in five months, have remained incapable. But there were a lot of warrants on the 21st of December. There is a mandate that perhaps it was that the progressive forces are in agreement, or that at least, among the independence bloc, the progressive forces were able to make their majority effective. Maybe it wasn't that hard, huh? And maybe it would have been great news for the country. Perhaps this would allow them to speak of transversality, of social justice. Permetic many things like what you vote for today will make it very difficult. And you know, more than that, and you know it. And that's why you dedicated yourself to explaining that Catalonia was here, while Mr. Joaquim Torra didn't. That's why you had to explain this so much. I'll tell him we're going to find a way to find a solution. If I steal one day we talk about the complexes, but there's not a lot of sensillas, huh? , which is said to go back to the origin. Never vote against ourselves. It's a very simple solution. In politics it seems complicated, and it is absolutely simple: never to vote against ourselves, against what we say, against what we believe and against what we defend. Return to the best of our country, return to the bases of popular and progressive Catalanism. Because, of course, when popular and progressive Catalanism is constantly subordinated and gives the country's political leadership to conservative Catalanism – and I would like to know with what version we are facing now – it ends up making popular and progressive Catalanism beyond mere rhetoric unrecognizable, to give lessons to others, many times. Not building a divided country, but a strong country, which can give an answer, from its plurality, to the longings of sovereignty and social justice of this country. Knowing that a country is built with its people, with all its people, and not with ours alone. And bend all our forces to overcome all our limits. This is the only way to build a progressive alternative to Catalonia and Spain. I explained the sentences of Lluís Companies. Lluís Companies was able to make that speech to the Parliament of Catalonia after you passed one thing: that you won a left front in Catalonia and a popular front in Spain. After that. Only then will we finally build a progressive alternative to Catalonia and Spain. Today we will do one simple thing: we will not vote against ourselves; we will vote in favour of a real, inclusive and progressive alternative to this country; we will vote in favour of what has been and will always be the real Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.17.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. Now has the word Mr Carles Riera, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.18.0	Thank you, President. Today, as we will always do in this Parliament, as we will always do in this Parliament, an act also anti-repression, an act to continue at the expense of prisoners and prisoners, exiles and exiles, accused, investigated, prosecuted and prosecuted. You also have, as always, this House goes for them and goes for them. Today, too, it is a sad day for internationalism, as the United States of America has decided to transfer its embassy, in a typically neo-colonial act, to the city of Jerusalem, precisely on the day in which the sad seventy-seven anniversary of the Nakba is celebrated. Well, listening to some of today's speeches we can only remember one sentence, the one that says: "Sometimes a sap at what cost is simply seeing who is on the other side. The phrase, obviously, isn't mine, it's not ours, it's Leonard Cohen's, and today it seems absolutely valid to us. And, indeed, we know what this is all about: that of the construction of a republic founded on October 1, 17th and now it is up to us to materialize; an inclusive, democratic, anti-racist, anti-feixist, internationalist, non-identitarian republic, for all and with all, both independent and non-independent. The only thing we can do, because we don't want anything else, because this is the only one that can satisfy the majorities needed, because only a republic that offers hope to people, to everyone, that offers dignity to the popular classes, that in better conditions of life, it will deserve that we continue to lay down the bones and the soul; the only one – that we have before the fascism of the Spanish State. A republic that also contributes to the hope that another world is possible, from this very day on, from the arrests of the Catalan Countries. And I quote..., I quote again an old and esteemed comrade, who said: « In Catalonia, the reactionary elements of Catalanism often raise the flag of Catalan claims in a nationalist sense, and when the more sound they make is when a social fact of resonance is produced, as if seeking the intervention of the authorities of the Spanish State to shoot down Catalan workers. We, and I say here, in Madrid, and if it suits Barcelona as well, we are and are opposed to those lords who claim to monopolize Catalan politics, not to absolve the freedom of Catalonia but to defend better their class interests, always loving to the evil demands of the Catalan proletariat. And I can assure you that these reactions that self-identify Catalanists the one that they fear most is the national recovery of Catalonia, in the case that Catalonia did not remain them submissive. And how they know that Catalonia is not a mesall town, nor do they even try to disconnect the Catalan policy of Spanish. In change, we, the workers, as it turns out that with an independent Catalonia we would not lose anything, years against it, we would gain much, the independence of our land does not make us for it. Obviously, as I said, the phrase is not mine, but it is ours, by Salvador Segui, in the speech of the Athenaeum of Madrid, the year 19. Yesterday, our militancy was debated whether we allowed the blockade of this investiture or whether we did not obstruct the policy of this legislature and the formation of government; both options from the most strenuous loyalty to the independence and republic of our country, both from the leiiness to the 1st of October, both with solid arguments. The majority decision was not to oppose the investiture, but to oppose it. Opposition to propose and build Republican policies and to serve popular classes, to materialize sovereignties, to maintain democratic conflict with the State, above all from social mobilization and non-violent civil disobedience, and also, if ever, from institutions. And to fight resolutely the return to autonomy and policies in favor of oligarchies and against the rights and living conditions of the working class. That's why we're abstaining today. We don't support your government. Our decision is based only on an anti-repressive and democratic exceptionality before the outbreak of the State, and because we want to create a land of political struggle against the State and also against autonomy, in which independence can be reorganized and strengthened outside and within the institutions so as to undertake the own reptiles that allow us to materialize the republic proclaimed on October 27. Today, the progress of the Republic is much more for civil mobilization, for social mobilization, than for these evil institutions. In it we trust, we actively promote it so as to drive a cycle change, a new cycle that takes us away from autonomy and takes us back to the path of independence and the republic. We cannot give support to your government because it is not raised in terms of disobedience and confrontation. One of the main priorities today is also to create independence, and this inevitably happens to assume that a part of the Catalan popular classes, a very important and worthy part, are of clear Spanish national identity, and that, therefore, it is necessary to build an inclusive and non-identitarian independence, that puts at the center the better of the material conditions of the popular classes and that it weaves strong bonds with the struggles of social character within the country. We are a candidacy of political forces that aspire to overcome capitalism and, at times, with the ability to make possible proposals depending on the reality of each moment: that 30 or 40 million euros of the schools that secrete by gender before stopping at the public educational centers with more needs; that there is a determined action to solve the problems of managing guaranteed income from citizenship; a real reduction of the lists of hopes of a health that today is still segregating and generating inequality, a health of different rhythms according to the social class, starting for people of immigrant origin; a finance adequate for the schools break and lowering the price of university taxes on the way of an education system, cataly and everywhere. And you, it is to say, have not given us yet certain, certain concrete, verifiable and traceable, on any of these questions. On the contrary, they propose a model of economic development and of inescapable growth, unquestionably of neoliberal nature. We insist on the fact that building a republic and social advancement is an inseparable exercise. We can do some social policies that lower the degree of patience of working classes, but in the 78 of the Spanish State there is no possibility for an expression that guarantees decent life in the conjunction of the popular classes. This is why we need to move forward in the construction of the republic, but at the same time, social progress is the guarantee of a strong majority in defence of the republic project. What social policies do you think you're doing? How do they intend to deal with the economic intervention of Article 155, but before Article 135? We have made proposals in this sense: to recover all the laws that are suspected, effectively, of housing, of universal health care, of work, of equality, of energy, of a public bank and of the recovery of the public ownership of the basic services and of the strategic resources of our country, against which we certainly have the electrical companies. What do you intend to do to dispute power over electrical companies in our territory and put energy resources at the service of the sovereignty of the country and the popular classes? These measures are not possible in the Spanish legal and political framework, and for this reason, it is necessary to advance towards the breakup. It has been shown that the autonomy is not valid for building the model of sanitation, education or housing policies we want. We need to have different, fairer and more redistributive political, social, economic and institutional relations. Only neo-liberal or social-emergency policies can be taken from the autonomy, but the causes of this situation are not addressed. And we replace the common ones. When in this Parliament we legislate in favour of the popular classes and the Constitutional Court challenges you, which cant you be? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Do they disobey the Constitutional Court? [[Greetings.]] Do they disobey the Constitutional Court or continue to uphold the 78th Regime? The break with the 78 rule is the only way to defend the rights of the working class. And I'm done, President. Public policies for the benefit of the popular classes and of our sovereignty will mark the rhythm of our confrontations. The measure of whether or not you complete your commitment not to make autonomy, not to make autonomy from the first day of your term, will also condition our debates. The materialization of a process is of the republic and of a true republican constitution, and of an assembly of elected bodies, such as the counter-power republic, will also indicate the possibilities or not to overcome the full autonomy and procession path. We are and are opposed by loyalty to October 1st, by loyalty to those who do not want to take a step back in the way to the republic. Mr. Torra, that what the street and the people with their bodies have won, the institutions and their government do not dare. Look at the republic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.19.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. It is now the return of Mr Xavier García Albiol, representative of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.20.0	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen deputies, candidate..., last Saturday, during my speech I told you about your opinions about which we do not think or feel like you were causing us a huge concern that identity and at the same time excluding you about the social reality of Catalonia. And today, as I did that day..., it has shown, in the eyes of everyone, that the Government of Catalonia will become in the hands of a man determined to make invisible to that part of the Catalan population that we are not independent, that we do not think like you, because simply, for you, we are not part of the people. We are, Mr. Torra, strangers in a reality..., in your national reality, dedicating itself solely and exclusively to govern, to satisfy those who think like you. You know him. We know him and today the spokesman of the European Commission has spoken a few minutes ago and he has said that he prefers not to comment on his thinking and on his comments of the present and of the most immediate past that he has made according to whether Catalans are good Catalans, independent nationalists, or we are, as you do not like, those who feel Catalan and Spanish. There has already been a pronouncement, and that pronouncement starts with a very bad foot in front of the European authorities. Mr. Torra, we've read, we've heard your speech this morning and in your speech..., or what you've done, is literally read the Junts per Catalunya election program. And, look if he's mimicked with Carles Puigdemont, who has explained to us exactly what he explained to us, he told us here in 2015, three years ago, exactly – exactly the same. And during these three years the question is: you, the independence majority, what have you done? Well, I'll tell you, they've done absolutely nothing. They did, yes, seek the division between Catalan society and spend the money of all Catalans in the independence process. And that is why the question is very specific: how do you intend to do all this, if you, as you have again acknowledged today, are an interim president? If you are a president for a few months, for five, for six months, how do you plan to carry it out? Yesterday, the assembly of the UPC decided to give it the place to follow the path that has led this land to live the greatest political and social instability of the last forty years. And, possibly, the period of decadence more..., a period of decadence unimaginable only five or six years ago. Your investiture, Mr. Torra, has the endorsement of the CUP, but, you know what? Unfortunately, that endorsement we're going to have to pay with a mortgage all Catalans. If President Tarradellas..., here have been references throughout the day to different presidents, well, I'm going to talk about President Tarradellas. If President Tarradellas raised his head and saw that the presidency of the Generalitat de Catalunya became occupied by someone who does not recognise himself – who does not recognise himself – as the legitimate president, he would certainly not respond to the scare. And what's much worse, from shame. With his speech he remains settled in the same story that has led us over the last few years to the greatest confrontation that we Catalans have experienced. It continues to be installed to look for an outside enemy to exalt the idea that being Catalan and being Spanish are totally opposite feelings. This morning you insisted on which are their priorities, their priorities of the Catalan Republic. Their priorities are not what we would like: to open up hospital plants, to hire more doctors to care for these 800,000 people, 800,000 Catalans who are currently on the waiting lists of Catalan sanitation. No, no, These aren't their priorities. His priority is to lay a large hole in the facade of the Palau de la Generalitat. Are their priorities to build schools for the twenty-thousand children in Catalonia who are studying at these times in barracks? So, no. For you, your priority is to create a commission to look for fantasies of 155. Their priorities are not to serve or to make a strategic plan because those nearly four-thousand enterprises that left Catalonia motivated by the instability that caused the process can return to Catalonia. Of course, these are not their priorities; businesses, for you, for you, are not important. Here what it is about is to re-open embassies to devote himself to talking badly about Espanya; do you hear that, Mr. Torra? This is what awaits us with you at the head of the Presidency of the Generality. Today we have again insisted on this will, on its willingness to dialogue with the Government of Spain. That will for dialogue does not seem to be very sincere after listening to him again. Mr. Torra, when you say that you want to sit with Mariano Rajoy, with the president of the government, you ask him: do you really think that the president of the government is going to sit down and negotiate how to cut Spain? Do you really believe that? I'll let you know I'm not. Do you not consider, Mr. Torra, that it would be better for most Catalans, for those who are independentists and for those who are not, to sit down and talk about what really concerns Catalans? Let him sit down with a sincere will to approach to break the institutional blockade that they have caused during all these years. Let him propose a reformist and realistic reform, and demand it, if he wants it too, but above all that he can have a fit within our legal framework. The question and the question we must ask ourselves is: why do you not want to put it this way? Why don't you want to go with a positive attitude? Why do you insist on wanting to do things through the back door? In this way, with these approaches, with these arguments, nothing can be advanced or achieved that is absolutely good. Those who continue to bet on the break with the rest of Spain should ask themselves: at what point in Catalan history has the break improved the living conditions of Catalans? The answer is simple: never. Therefore, do yourself a favor: do not work against the interests of the majority of Catalans. After what we have seen, I do not think it is necessary to remind you that what can happen in Catalonia in the coming months, Mr Torra, is only up to you. It is in his hand that Catalonia's self-government does not have to intervene again to guarantee the Statute and the Constitution and the rights, especially, of all Catalans. Mr Torra, if you intend to follow the path you have indicated this morning, do not have the slightest doubt that your freedom, as I told you last Saturday, will end when our rights begin. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that complicated moments and difficult moments await us after listening to Mr Torra's speech. By the way, Mrs. Arrimadas, I am not going to answer to you the attacks on the Government of Spain, because you are not my rival; my rival is independence. [[applause]] I'd like to make that very clear. And I am pleased that, after five months, you have decided to act as leader of the opposition and to call the representatives of the political parties for the first time, which you have not yet done. [[Greetings.]] He said that we are aware that very difficult moments await us, and we are also aware that there will be a lot of staging, there will be a lot of political pyrotechnics; but I can assure you that we have the strength of ideas and convictions, a strength of ideas to plant face to face radicalism, but above all to offer a political alternative from reason, respect, and from the plurality of society. I'm finishing up. It is true, after listening to him, it is clear that he wants to remain settled in the conflict, but he has no doubt that we are more, many more, those who bet on wisdom, because the Catalans have never managed to improve with the conflict and yes with dialogue, with the pact and reformism. And I'm done. Spain needs more Catalonia, and Catalonia needs more Spain. But, Mr Torra, make it clear that Spain is not just a market of 47_million consumers, Spain is one of the oldest and most respected nations in the world. But if this nation stays alive...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.21.0	Mr. García Albiol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.22.0	... it is not only – and I finish already – for a question of economic utility: it remains alive because in the hearts of these people and, I do not doubt, in the hearts of many Catalans there is also a feeling of belonging. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.23.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr. Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.24.0	Ladies and gentlemen, President of Parliament, President Mas, President Montilla, President De Gispert, President Benach, President Rigol, I address all of you on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Catalonia is a nation and has a parliament. One of Parliament's tasks is to sort out the country's president, and today, when we get out of this chamber, and depending on the position that the different groups have shown today, Congressman Quim Torra and Pla will be the new president of Catalonia. In this way we will relatively place the end point to seven_months of government carried by the State, seven_months of democratic shame. He arrested, exiled and 155, and, with the pack of 155, the occupation and denigration of the institutions that are close to us, such as the Government and the Presidency of the Generality. We will take a step forward, which is not the final pass, to save a situation that has been very unfair, profoundly unfair, and very painful for the country's entire community and that, when it comes to the shortsightedness of the Spanish Government, has hurt everyone. In this we are also a people's sun. Aware of the importance of the moment, we have an excellent opportunity this morning to show what it is, what will be the political action of Juntes for Catalonia. We're here to make, to help make the republic. And the president and the government will keep us at their side to bring forward the idea of a new country, the proposal of a better country. Mr. Torra, you'll always tend to get us ready, to make tangible what a country of opportunity means for everyone, where everyone wins, to move from the intangible of speech to the realization of public policies. Candidate Quim Torra, already said in this Parliament: "Today, today and tomorrow, the cause of freedom, the cause of Catalonia, the cause of the republic, are our causes. And I add that with the cause of the republic we are the cause of social justice and of a country of opportunity for everyone. That everyone listens to him, everyone: a country of all, a republic where no one is left behind, a society ahead. Yes, Mrs. Arrimadas, a company ahead. They're not triads at random, we don't add words, it's not about looking good, playing a more or less pleasant soundtrack, and who spends the day every year. It is a matter of offering solutions, of offering a great solution to the country's conjunct; the pieces are gone. We welcome the result of a deep reflection of all political Catalanism. I don't know what physics says, Mr. Torra, I know what common sense tells me. It's impossible to move 'nsi we're still. I'll put him in the back, or I'll put him in the back. Zero motion, in politics, doesn't exist; it's life. We offer the country the result of a political project that today is central, after forty years of proving everything. We are the answer of "no to everything. That's why it's not Catalan. This is a great solution, global, 360-degree vision, that embraces everything, that incorporates us all. We need this solution, because we have a huge, huge problem, which is called the future, which is called the Spanish State. This is our compromise, propose, articulate and defend the solution. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a solution. Today we vote on a basic piece of the solution. And warn navigators: don't cheat on us, fair play, enough insults in this Parliament, enough to weep, don't turn this Parliament into a TV set or a viewing image designed for the three of you. No, sirs, I'm sorry. Please respect ideas, various ideas and candidate Torra; respect political proposals, which is the most elegant and polite way, surely the most civic, to respect the ballot boxes. Certainly, Mr.Iceta, to the Kingdom Unit – "already" – do not forbid deep loops, as you have said. It must be some federation, but to the United Kingdom – "on the contrary – they allow references to the people and the people asking for them. « So much so. [[Greetings.]] Analitzin – Analitzin –, judge our words and our actions. You will know each other for our sakes, for our proposals, I agree with you, Mr. Iceta, on this I agree with you, Mr. Iceta, not for what they say we have done, or for what we want to do and see. No, sir, judge us, Catalans and Catalans, judge us for political action, for the result, how the idea of change we propose works, as we will. We need the solution, make republic to solve people's problems. They're wrong and they'll be wrong if they turn the Catalan cause into just a question of rights, that too, oh and so much! - That's what I'm talking about, too. Neither do those who still think it's a matter of assumptions and reversals, of undersustaining support for decades, that also. And they're short, they're very short, those who think they're recovering four fallen laws would already be. This is from a complex, diverse and powerful society with difficult problems, but with enormous potentialities. This is from a state that has disappeared before the problems that affect the dignity of people, from a state that always sticks to us, but also from a state that has also disappeared at the time of favor, from a state that is never at the time of favoring the economic potential of Catalonia. The threat of the economy is not freedom, but the constant and systematic focus and the pieces of '1 October. There's not and there won't be, we have to stay, and we have to be because we're the solution. Who? People, and the country, civil society, diverse, plural, social, action, economic and political spheres. We must be because the State has abandoned us before the poor, but also at the time of favoring the generation of wealth. Or how do we explain, Mrs. Arrimadas, to you that you like the AVE so much, how do we explain to future generations, how do we explain to them that in Spain the Mediterranean Corridor circulates four hundred kilometres from the Mediterranean? How do we explain it to them? Big problems need big solutions. Yes, that's right, they're right: what we're willing to do is neither easy nor easy. We know and candidate Torra knows, and it involves us all. We applaud his proposal for change, the transformation, which is our proposal. It is a proposal that often, in many cases intentionally and in other cases because, it is true, we did not know how to place the debate on the spot, it is a proposal that has come to a distorted in some sectors of the country. The proposal we make is not just identity; the proposal we make has a social anime, engine for change, and a national anime, engine for change. If there is the national anime, if we propose to update the idea of Catalonia region for Catalonia is because there is the social anime, because there is the social responsibility. How are people's needs covered if they don't have the tools or the accomplices to do so? What? - What? With his arms open? What? By applauding a passing state when it comes to helping, collaborating or being in Catalonia? We live and feel the country; that's why we're here. That's why we got here. Let us speak clearly: the need has brought us, they have brought us here. They forced us to ask and answer them. What the fuck? , som pencaries, som creatius, som coughs, som solidaris, som entrepreneurs. I feel like I'm – to see who knows how to answer –, why do I have to stay short at the time of having resources to help people? Why do we have to make short – we always have to make short – if we can be a unique, powerful, open and recognized economic force that can plant for all the needs of its people? Isn't it about this, about meeting people's needs? How can we protect our public services, our social services, sanitation, school? What is the real and definitive solution to the secular blockade that they imposed on us? How do we get better infrastructure? With what? How can they respond to these reptes? We solemnly have a great problem; solemnly, I say to them: "We don't want any more pieces. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes from this; it goes out of ambition for our people, or it goes out of the way. It is time to launch a new project that guarantees the national fullness and fullness of people in a just society, built with republican values. Mr Albiol, are we betting on the FLA trap and creating the million-dollar investments of Moncloa? Is it about paying, finally asking and finally waiting for the tip? We must wait for the rain of millions – rain of millions! – with final performance inclusive to Catalonia but that is never concrete in terms? A flood of millions, say some, when Rajoy's court tried to fill the Palau de Congresses from Catalonia to Barcelona with entrepreneurs who came directly from the Bernabéu lot. So, as Raimon sang, in this country, you know, the plou poc o plou massa. I, in this case, of millions, people don't go down. Do we trust a hard-haired, crocodile-haired, Beaver's accomplice to the Ebre Lands? Hey, what's up? You mean we have to trust a state that has been the mass box of families that could have joined the law of the poor energy and that couldn't have done so because the state said no, that no way? You mean he's not... talking about you, you mean he's not having any more of a mind and being more careful and smarter and wiser and more secure, to take care of ourselves? And we serve our people? And if we serve the country without? And what if we pose next to the city? What if we're looking at giving up? Please, don't talk about giving up, we don't want to give up anything: social soul well fit with national aspiration. Candidate Torra, calmly, affectionately and in your own way, but very well done – very well done –, it is clear that yes, to say no to the possibility that Catalonia settles for ever more in the grisly of a country that could not address the reptes that generate its own dreams. You'll do very well, Mr. Torra. What do we do, we go out here to Parliament, we rope the American, and we say: "Catalans, Catalans, you have no dreams, no projects, no illusions, you have no hope, because, as we have it, as they have perpetuated it, you can have no dreams, no illusions, no hopes? We have another way: we talk, we go to the country and we say: "This is our solution proposal. Either we do this or we're not serving the citizens of this country. Since today, Mr. Torra, the solution we are proposing is a shared, binding, cohesive, inclusive, winning solution; the solution, a solution of hope. Since today, you, Mr. Torra, and your government, and President Puigdemont, and the seventy Republican Members of this chamber, from the government or from the opposition, are the bravers of hope. Societies are changing, and it's a fate. Now the solution is to make republic, walk to the republic, build republic: equity, social responsibility, equality and opportunities. Our proposal is clear, that's it. We accept the burden of democracy loyally to Republican values. We want social cohesion and progress, with quality public services, with a modern economy; social services in the area of welfare. Continue and continue – continue and continue – after continuing and continuing, which candidate Torra has said more than once. We defend a political action that will never express itself against anyone or anyone; we will never send anyone to prison for their ideas. We'll never do it. They listened to him well: against no one, in favor of everyone. Freedom is not against anyone, it is never against anyone; otherwise, it is no longer freedom. Freedom is to listen to everyone, right; democracy is to respect everyone, right. And the republic is the people, always the people, and a country of opportunity for 7.534,813 Catalans and Catalans – I don't want to leave anything behind. For all of us, for all of us, and for all of us who will come. It included it, it cohesed it, it's not ideas that it's defensive to repeat them roughly every five minutes. Cohesion is practical; inclusiveness is driven and favored, which is what we want to do. Attitudes are important; it's not the same as doing. Ask for respect. We're asking you to stop the underprivileged and the accusations of those who want to, they want the social fracture. You won't dye it. Catalonia will not have a social fracture because we will explain to everyone that our proposal is to turn social justice into a pillar of government, with a government with a real capacity, now, for economic management. If the ballot boxes have endorsed us, if we are convinced that the best way we have to make a better country is to make a republic, why do we have to defend the contrary? We refuse to play with the illusions of the country giving fish to which they use the dialog word as the marketing tool. « Dialeg means Dialeg. It's people and life and politics. There is no policy dialogue and a policy dialogue for which we are Members. That's not what's going on. "Dialeg means to speak, to reason, and the people he wants to speak do not delimit the playing field, Mr Albiol. The only limit is to respect education and know how to listen. This is the dialog: some ears and a head willing to listen, knowing that in conversations – and Mr. Rajoy should know this – you get used to saying things that you may not share. Dialeg, yes; political marketing, no. To speak, to reason, to listen, yes, always; the limit, the only limit, is respect. Then, if I may, there's a way to make a conversation go well, that's to start well. For example, if the State wants dialog, first it has to complete. To complete means to be worthy of the given word; to be worthy is no more cheating. Gentlemen of the Spanish Government, what day will 155 rise? Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Rivera, Mr. Sanchez, the three tenors, if they were valiant to impose an unjust rule, remain valiant now and complete the given word. Do the favor– and don't move your head, Mr. Albiol, don't move your head–, do the favor, don't fall asleep, don't take our hair any more, and raise 155. Please, day and time. When will they raise 155? Completing the given word is a good way to start dialogue. Mr. Albiol, you sure wouldn't want to negotiate with cheaters. Madame Arrimadas, do you hear you'd run away from lying and people with little words? So that they raise 155. Mr. Iceta, please, « press Mr. Sánchez, « pressi'l, which also helps. Pro-repressive, you have to find a way to end the prison. Pretty exiled. Couldn't the Spanish state have had enough with the exile of Pau Casals or the Scarré father and so many thousands and thousands of people exiled for ideas? Didn't they have enough? Mr Albiol, did not have enough, the Spanish State, with the exile of President Tarradellas, honoured in this same session? Didn't they have enough? Mr. Rajoy, dialeg doesn't mean fever. I finish – I finish. That's it, it's a threat, a countdown... Candidate Torra, I take a deputy word, but I'll finish him off with his father's roll, his son and his ass. One day I'm going out and I'm going to explain it, because I like it so much, so much... but I can imagine, a popular way and I'm going to say that when you have an idea, that when you're convinced, you go ahead. If you are convinced that the best way to help people, to take care of people, to strengthen the country, to avoid inequalities, to boost the economy; if you know that making a republic is the most appropriate because it is the best option, talk, listen, listen to everyone, talk to everyone, but go ahead. Candidate Torra, he has us on his side; at this time he has the country excited and expecting, convinced that from his serene and firm we will make ourselves worthy of Catalonia. Mr Quim Torra and Pla, you have our vote, that of the centrality of the country. Don't forget...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.25.0	Mr. Pujol, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.26.0	Precisely, I want to finish saying, almost, almost, almost the most important thing I want to say. We never forget political prisoners, nor do we forget political exile. Don't forget people. Always with people, always with the country. Very lucky, Mr. Torra! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.27.0	The interventions of the groups and sub-groups of Parliament have been completed, and the candidate, Mr Quim Torra, has the following words to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.28.0	President... Ladies and gentlemen, I'm new here, it's quite obvious, and, of course, one goes here, he makes the speech the disbande, and he thinks: "Well, opposition groups have asked you about the government program, try to present, forty-eight hours later, a detail about the government program. So today you come here, you come out with the government program, and it turns out that no one – no one – is for the government program or no comment on the data that we have been able to present. [[Greetings.]] No; and, of course, a saying: "Well, it's that the real problems of the people...; say: "Well, let's go talk about the real problems of the people, of which some understand that they are the real problems of the people. And no one's talking about people's real problems. And that, for someone who's new here, so it's really quite surprising. And, therefore, let me – let me – give you some data on people's real problems. For example, about social spending. The general budget allocated 75 % of public expenditure to social expenditure, a percentage which has increased every year; a expenditure which has helped to reach 100 % of families in housing aid, to grant 25,000 more scholarships than in the previous course, more resources to increase the surgical activity, a mental health plan, to have 750 nine places of residence for large people and to approve a public offer of 7,700 places. And, besides, yes, indeed, the Catalans pay more taxes than the Spanish medium. That's it. For example, if we applied the tax system of the Community of Madrid to Catalonia we would lose about 500_million euros per year; a decision that although we do not want to allow, because, despite all the efforts, the percentage of GDP devoted to teaching, health or social welfare policies in Catalonia is very much below the European average. What's the problem? What's the origin? He knows all: the fiscal deficit. A fiscal deficit that some people don't want and don't want to recognize. In order to have a expenditure similar to the European average as a percentage of GDP, do you know how much we should increase the assumption? For example, in teaching, in 5,000_million euros; in greeting, in more than 5,000_million euros additional; in social policies 1,100_million euros. These moneys, we'd have them, huh? We'd have them if you didn't have the tax deficit and the tax drain. And I ask them, to groups that are negotiating the assumptions of the State, do they really believe that the general assumptions of the State of 2018 are a good assumption for Catalonia? Do they really believe that? Would you be able to defend him in this chamber? The expected investment in Catalonia for 2018 is 13_per_cent– 13_per_cent, huh? –, when our population is significantly higher than this point. I of the Mediterranean Corridor, not a line. And that, bearing in mind that the assumed reversal, when it is executed, with much luck, we will arrive at half of this 13_per_cent. Is this the offer to improve Catalan competitiveness, which you plant at the people of Catalonia? Are you surprised that we want a Catalan republic to better manage our resources? What contributions have been made to improve the energy system, which harms industry or the Catalan pepper, to pay for one of the most expensive electricitys in Europe? Or of salvation. I think we've been talking about salvation, and no one's ever done a... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I'm sorry, Mrs. Arrimadas, you are. You did insist on the matter of the balls, didn't you? , and problems with the waiting lists. In the past legislature it began to apply a plan of scoc that allowed to increase the surgical activity by 6,5_per_cent and reduce the waiting lists. Overall, a reduction in 38 days waiting to visit the specialist. And all that without the deputy and councilman Toni Comín, who pushed him, today he can't be with us in this chamber. [[Greetings.]] We haven't talked about dependency, either. It must not be a subject of those who really care about Catalans. Even though the number of people who would benefit from the benefits for the Law of Dependency has increased by 50_per_cent since 2011, coming... Do you know how much they arrive today? Fifteen hundred and fifty people in attendance. Insufficient, because there are still waiting lists and needy. Insufficient, of course. And what can we do? I do not ask them for their collaboration, which the Generalitat has been contributing for over 50_per_cent in dependence. And do they know what the compromise is in the law? That funding should be the same between the State and the Generality. You can, gentlemen of the PP, gentlemen of Ciutadans, who are managing the assumption or are negotiating the assumption of the State, what do you think you are doing? What have they achieved beyond incomplete promises? Will they require the Spanish State to assume this 50_percent of the Dependency Law? Mr. Iceta, good morning. You ask a lot about respect for the legal mark, huh? , and I will always answer the same: that to the one to whom I say obedience is to the people of Catalonia, and, therefore, to this Parliament. I will always answer him the same: "At the will of Catalans. I'll always answer the same. I wonder about the political condition of the Catalans. And the Catalans are 7 million. And I know it's hard for me to keep that article – I know it's hard for me. Because, look, we have a common friend, Amadeu Cuito, who makes irony a certain art. I must have made it fatal, because that article was meant to be written with an ironic term. If you felt offended [[Funnel veils]] I'm sorry, but it was like that. And I remember having attended some tributes, to the Badia Germans or Daniel Cardona. I don't know why I didn't attend tributes to Layret, to Companies, to Macia, to Ferrer and Gardia, to Carrasco and Anmiguera, to Pompeu Fabra, to Antoni Rovira and Virgili, to Joan Peiró. I am interested in all Catalanism – I am interested in all Catalanism – and, therefore, I have tried to be there where all Catalanists have been honoured. If we go out on a headline today, what I'd like is for this republic, for all of us and for all of us. This seems to me to be what we, today, have tried to explain. And you, Mr. Iceta, said to me: "Home, look, from then on, eh? – in order to emerge elected president– « the responsibility will be yours. And that's it, but I like that you said it, because I meant it too. It seems to me that it is an essential, vital point that we make this line between the responsibility of the previous government and the responsibility of the new government. Indeed, whatever steps we take from now on will be my responsibility, to the head of the government I represent. Mr. Domènech, it is clear to us that you do not share the itinerary we have followed since the elections until today. This is a topic that normally came out in their interventions. And, on occasions, today, another time, so, they have criticized and promoted initiatives, huh? , as in the case of the amendment of the Law of Presidency, which, in his opinion, knowing that the Spanish Government would challenge them and the TC would suspend them cautiously, therefore, was a useless gesture. But do you know what happened to other laws that we approved in this Parliament? The right-of-habitat protection law? The law of universal access to public health care? The Catalan Social Protection Agency? The law of effective equality between men and women? The empty floor tax? Is the tax on nuclear power? And I'll leave it here. Where did all these laws end? Suspensions to the Constitutional Court. That we don't have to approve these laws? Defending political rights and democracy, for us, is as important as defending social rights; neither more nor less, because we understand that the two of them go hand in hand. And in this new legislature, especially its group, what we are asking is to help us pull these laws forward again. Wait till you have them here. We hope to keep them here on the side, and that in all those social laws and in all those laws where the anti-repressive front and in favor of democracy, all those initiatives that we can tackle, we also hope to have your group on the side. Yeah, it's catalysing everything that lives and works in Catalonia. Yeah, we're a people's sun. And yes, we are heresies of Companies and Federica Montseny, of course we are – of course we are. And so are Lluís Nicolau and Olwer, huh? The sound of Francesc Cambó, too. Catalanism, indeed, is a very transversal movement and it has been so far along the whole story. When I was commenting on the Popular Front of Esquerres, of the year 36, I was particularly interested, because if I feel represented for some political party of the years of the Republic it is for Catalan Action. And it turns out that Accio Catalana, in those elections of the year 36, with whom was she going? With the Popular Front of the Left. And who was the most voted candidate in Barcelona? Lluís Nicolau and d'Olwer. Therefore, I have no doubt that we, as progressives, will always be on the side of progressism. There's no doubt about it. CUP companies, many thanks – many thanks. I'm charging you, that's that you stay alert, if we ever fall into the storm of autonomy; raise the red flag immediately and ask for all the certain ones we can, because we would be wrong. We have defended it and we have always said it, we have said it when we talked about negotiating or publicly: "This is a project of seventy Members to get it out of the way and that we would like it to be more, and that we hope it will be more in many areas. But it has to be seventy deputies to get us out of it, because we have a colossal repte in the front. And if we don't start now and start with the three lives of Republican action at the time, and with you alerts, we won't get out. So, forward. Thank you for this constructive abstention. And, Mr Carles Riera, yes, "the streets will always be ours. Mr. Albiol, we will rule for all – we will rule for all – no doubt. I'm not an exceptional or provisional president, it's the situation that's exceptional, it's the situation that's provisional. Because it can't be any other way. Because I look at the deep loops in this Parliament. But in what Parliament in the world are there deep loops? Is it that in which Parliament of the world have the democrat policies in prison? We solve this issue. This theme is the door to all solutions. That's who you are. And we can't move forward if we don't. Therefore, you have no doubt that this government will rule and rule well, and govern hard, but what we need to solve is the exceptional situation. Dial. I've been very frank. I think that, if we make a number of words, the word 'dialeg' must also go beyond that of the 'Republic', but it must be close. I, there again insist, for us..., listen'm, I, if Mr. Mariano Rajoy today tricked me – that I don't know, therefore –, delighted to stay tomorrow at Moncloa to talk. It's just... you know what's important? Do you know what's important? When I was commenting on this morning that the constitutional pact is broken with the reform of the Statute, it is because bilaterality is broken, it is because, simply, the sovereignty of Catalonia becomes a purely administrative issue. And all political catalanism, what has always turned political catalanism is, precisely, talking about you, being respected, being considered a valid interlocutor, a political subject. And that's what we need to get back. Now, you, today, have come back to finish your speech as it ended the other day. I don't know if you're threatening me yet, but I don't care. It's just that they don't make us because of these threats, that we've already overcome these threats. [[Greetings.]] And we won't do any pyrothecnia – we won't do no pyrothecnia. This government will rule and pale and manifest the situation in which we find ourselves, of course, and it will actually do so. And friends of Junts for Catalonia, dear friends, who at the last session I forgot about you just... I know very hard. It seems lying, people you sometimes have more trust and more friendship with, so you end up not remembering. Thank you very much for your trust and for your words. Without you, it was impossible for me to be here. We have a lot of work ahead of us, we can't do it... all together. Thank you all very much, friends and company. [[Greetings and soundings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.29.0	Yes; they have three minutes for each parliamentary group. [[The president gives the word to Inés Arrimadas García.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.30.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly. Mr Torra, Mr candidate, future president, I think it is good that you listen to the speeches of the other parliamentary groups, that you listen to them, because if you say that we have not talked about any social issues, it is that very attentive was not, at least, in our intervention. Besides, I have time limitation, you don't. I got back the questions I asked him the other day, concrete. Have you answered any of them? No, no, He doesn't care. By the way, just a brief comment. Do you know who voted in the Congress of Deputies this harmful law that makes Spain pay for the most expensive energy in Europe? Convergence and Union. I mean, when he comes here, he comes with his homework a little done, because I think he throws a little bit of dirt on it. [[Greetings.]] Mr Pujol, of the Junts per Catalunya Group, said "without insults in Parliament, of course. Do you know what have been the worst insults that I am convinced that in the history, long history, of this Parliament have never been poured out? The insults we have literally read from your candidate's articles to the Catalans. [[Greetings.]] The worst. Esquerra Republicana, Junts per Catalunya, the CUP will vote for Mr. Torra knowing what Mr. Torra defends. They will have no excuse to say: "We didn't know, we found him. It was on our list, but this gentleman didn't know what trajectory he had, what articles he had made. Dozens, hundreds, you have items. He is not a gentleman who can make a mistake at eighteen years of age, he can still have a political choice that is remaking, improving, modulating. No, no: a man made and right, a very short time ago, making articles in which he calls « beasts with human form certain people in Catalonia. This is the gentleman you are going to make president of today. When we go through Europe to explain it, it is not worth saying that we did not know. Independence today assumes that the President of the Generalitat, who represents, as you very well have said, seventy Members, because he does not represent anyone else, 47_per_cent of Catalonia..., independence assumes that it is the speech that has to represent independence. And they say: "There is no social fracture. Of course, how are you going to see the social fracture, if you don't see us halfway across Catalonia, if you're just in Catalonia..., how are you going to see the social fracture? [[Some applause.]] How are you going to see her? If you want to make a Parliament just for yourselves, how will you see the social fracture, if you don't see us, if you don't see half of Catalonia? Catalonia is stronger than you think. Catalonia, luckily, is much more than Mr. Torra defends. Catalonia, fortunately, is far more than the seventy Members who are going to support this candidate today. And I think that you are not aware of the responsibility that you have in your hands from now on, I think you are not aware of the enormous honor that it is supposed to be the President of the Generalitat of 7 million and a half Catalans, not seventy Members, of 7 million and a half Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.31.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.32.0	With you we know that we are not going to have agreements, that we are not going to have normality, that we are not going to comply with the law, that you are not going to respect non-independence Catalans. We know everything that's not going to be. And I also say to you: with you, we know that the need we have for a president for all Catalans, a president of all Catalans, is not going to come with you either. There will be no independence with you, no social cohesion, no better future for Catalans, no president of all Catalans; we will have to wait a little longer. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.33.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's the return of Mr Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.34.0	Well; today, Mr. Torra has forgotten about the Republican Left, you must also be because you esteem us very much... Anyway, I begin by thanking candidate Torra for his willingness to seek broad consensus, to build between all of us; this is what the Catalans of us expect, that we do not subscribe to confrontation. Work to win the adherence of all citizens to the construction of a common project, a free, shared and future, majority national project. To plant this conflict without comparing identities, but to confront political sovereignty, deciding who is leading Catalonia, whether we are or if they are leading us from outside, and we bet together to seize the kingdoms of our future. To Mr. Iceta: tell him that we seem to agree in the definition of who the Catalans are, so we don't exclosure one. But there is a small difference: you, these Catalans, dispower them and tell them that they can neither decide nor rule without being tutored; for this – for this reason..." [[some applause]] That's why we liked the '80s PSC better, the one who did defend the right to decide, the one who took the right to self-determination, a right that they defended until the day we wanted him to serve. The day we wanted him to serve, he disappeared from his agendas. "Ah, no, that's no longer, what a horror, as the Arale would say. [[Widow's remorse.]] At the CUP: aggravate your forbearance. To insist that we win his support with the government with facts. With courage in the defense of the country and in the construction of the republic. With a great debate of character they constitute. Together in anti-repressive action, and in so many spaces. And here too, I have no doubt, with a government of progress and courageous social policies. We'll make them not be able to say no. And to Mr. Domènech, as I gave him to the CUP, this will be a progressive government or not. And we'll find each other, Mr. Domènech, because we'll show him it's worth adding up. They don't trust him today, they just ask him when I see that this is a government working for the people, that I disappear, that I'm clear, that he helps us, that we find ourselves in the votes. We don't ask him for his support today, we ask him when he walks and we show him it's worth doing. We'll find each other, Mr. Domènech, because our paths will grow, not in doubt. I, Mr. Arrimadas, very, very short. When he talks about internationalising this supposed supremacism in Europe, when he says he wants to get off the tour, he doesn't forget Ciutadans's folder. Because he's got a lot of stuff going on around here. Do you know who Libertas is? Freedom is the party of outrage that was presented with you to the Europeans. Do you know who Sagardoy is? A senator's candidate who was pulling out deep ties with Hammerskin's seniors. Do you know who Alexis Marí is? So, it's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.35.0	Mr. Sabria...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.36.0	...the syndic of València that you proposed and that now warns them that they have surrounded themselves with the extreme right. And that's just about three minutes. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.37.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. It's Mr. Iceta's return now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.38.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to be brief, but don't let me laugh. It is the complaint of the candidate, and perhaps quite rightly, that his proposals have not received much attention in the joint debate. But I gave him the explanation. They're proposals that we've been listening to since the year 2012, that they've been carrying years since they did, and you've given yourself a five-month government life expectancy. Maybe that's why we haven't given him the importance we owe him. I haven't solved any of the questions, there's all the right, but there's none that I think has any interest, that's the issue of what we're gonna do with financing. Because I already know that we want peace, but, meanwhile, what are we going to do? Because if we only have the peace on the day the ideal republic arrives, then, meanwhile, we will have something to do, and, therefore, we will have to negotiate. And here we remember that... I have very recent statements from Councillor Mas-Colell, who everyone attributes to him a certain authority, and says: "Approximately, Catalonia pays taxes in proportion to its contribution to GDP and in proportion to its population. If that is the case, the margin for discussion will be small; but we will have to do it, anyway. You say: "This will end with a republic. I think this starts without it, and it will end, in the best of cases, without it. But I want to take over the things you said you agreed to: 7_million_i_mig– 7_million_i_mig. And we're not talking about it anymore. Two. The irony of the goat. I knew there was the half-breed of the goat, the nap of the goat; the irony of the goat, not the acquaintance. Look, the irony is very good, and I spend it, too. But, believe me, when there is an accumulation of assertions, write, as yours, some additional comment, I, of you, would have done it, because the hemeroteca is long. Then he said: "Threes of a groceries, speak to Mr. Guardiola. You're afraid of reference. Miri, the Scottish government has never planned to skip the law. She's a good guide to conduct. [[Some applause.]] Then, he says : « The only one to whom I say obedience is to the people of Catalonia. Jo, anyway. Now, if I can exercise it according to what the State says: "The powers of the Generality emanating from the people of Catalonia and exercising themselves according to what they establish this State and the Constitution. If this is not the case, in the name of the people it is disarrayed, they make big mistakes and the terrabastall we can pay among all. And, therefore, it would be important to know whether the President of the Generality, who will be among other things because there was the sight of the people on the 21st of December, will also lead according to the laws of the country, which are the ones that give legitimacy to the institution it embodies. And, lastly, they like that expression very much, and so I'm sure I'm late for the change. But, listen to me, we have listened to the streets will always be ours, "the school will always be ours, and all" Palau will always be ours. They think it would be wise for this "ours" to be a little inclusive. The streets, the schools and Palau, that follow from all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.39.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. It's Mr. Xavier Domènech's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.40.0	Very quick. Mr. Joaquim Torra, he said it was new; it seemed very old, because here we talked about programs, enough. I asked him very concrete questions and he didn't answer any; no, not one. College fees, will they lower them? Yes or no? Progressive taxation, will you do it? Yes or no? It's easy to answer, huh? They didn't answer that, which is why I didn't find new people. The Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is clear that it has been an obstacle to much of the laws that have come out of Catalonia. It's also obvious that she's been served many times as an excuse, many times. And that there are laws at these times, the law of childhood, the law of LGTBifóbia..., all these laws, that can be unfolding and that have not unfolded. And then I want to know if this, this invitation to read, is just an invitation to the pedagogy. You say it a lot. He said: "Listen, we have done many things which, indeed, have not served the king, but have proved things. Because, of course, I care about the people of Catalonia, how they see the people of Catalonia and their inequality. I don't just care about teaching life, but changing reality. So, I think... yeah, it's actually an obstacle. I'm so sorry. We have already shown there where we govern that we can make advanced social policies, much more advanced than those of the Government of Catalonia, without making so many epic excuses. And now, I wasn't going to direct you, gentlemen of the UPC, but... I wasn't going to, was I? But as you went directly, I think it's from there... the first, the reference to Salvador Seguí. Beyond that the speech that you quote is the reconstruction of the forty years – and now I will send it, Mr. Riera, the original speech, because it would surely make reflections that could vary many things from his perception of what has been popular Catalanism and the popular classes of this country–, beyond that, ask 'you: Salvador Next, today, would you abstain? That's a good question, huh? I think... see if they can answer that. [[Widow's remorse.]] And then, tell us about... well, disobeying and... Miri, you've approved, you've approved... But they approved some anti-social assumptions. Today you have abstained, I don't know whether to counter or with passing, with a candidate representing the most conservative version of Catalanism, much as it is now of Catalan Action, I hope that of Catalan and Republican Action too, but it symbolizes this. Do you know what's going on? From humility and from esteem, lessons, from you, from a supposed pure ideological, that every day is brought here, never more against anyone. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.41.0	Yes, it's Mr. Riera's turn. When you want, Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.42.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Well, Mr. Torra, you've told us to be alert if your government is autonomous. I assure you, we're on maximum alert. [[Widow's remorse.]] Every time you, your government does self-government knows that it was contrary to the popular will of October 1. And we are there to defend the popular will of October 1. Every time your government makes policies against the working class, it will undermine popular support for independence, and we will be defending the working class so that the support for independence can grow. If they ever call upon identities, they know that social support to the republic will undermine, and we will be building a country for everyone, for everyone, effectively against no one, in favor of the republic. Please, especially, we don't get changed anymore. A man who agreed with the franchise – you know perfectly well – against the republican movement. Please, never again against anyone. And, therefore, never again do they call us Cambo. Another observation. The streets aren't the people we're here. The streets will always be from the people, from the people who are mobilized to the streets, to which we owe all obedience. And that's why, for all of us, we're fighting for the republic, as well as for the people who are retaliated by squad movements at these times in Lleida, people of the CDR. [[Some applause.]] You see, Mr. Torra, what a paradox: held for the moves, ostatges of the State. It is a challenge that his government will have to resolve and we hope that he will also be at the side of these people today's reprisals. And, as I said, Mr. Torra, we are on maximum alert and with the red flag at any point drifting autonomously and fighting for the republic. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.43.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. It's Mr. García Albiol's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.44.0	Very short, because I have a minute and a half. Did Mr. Torra say he's new, huh? And that, therefore, there were things they didn't understand. Well, a council: apart from talking, you have to listen, too, huh? And if you've listened well to the interventions I've heard from the People's Party that we've talked to you about the 800,000 Catalans who are on the waiting list, the twenty thousand children and children, so, who are studying in barracks, the four thousand companies that have left Catalonia for the instability that has created independence... I've talked about it all. Therefore, I would like you to follow my advice in this regard. One of the expressions I'd love to hear, huh? – I don't know if the expression is correct in Catalan, but what more would I get, and what their members of the CUP have referred to now – it is that ‘the streets will be ours. Look, the streets are from everyone, absolutely from everyone: from those who are independent, from those who are manifested in the street and from those who feel Catalan and Spanish; absolutely from everyone. And see if they take it all at once. And finally, listen to me, I didn't say no threat or make no threat, not much less, huh? – or much less – you can be absolutely at ease. Do you know what a threat really is, Mr. Torra? Some of the things we've been listening to here that you said. And they're a threat to self-government, and they're a threat to stability, and they're a threat to normal coexistence between those people we think differently. That's a threat. And here you should've "stamped a mike, and here you should've been responsible and thinking that at the moment I'm in this schooner, you're the president...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.45.0	Mr. García Albiol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.46.0	... – I finish – he becomes the president of the people he voted for, of the independenceists, but also of the rest of Catalans. The day you take this, it'll be a lot better for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.47.0	It's Mr. Eduard Pujol's return now, on behalf of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.48.0	Mr. Torra, I'll be brief, because I'm willing to hold a new president. Mrs Arrimadas, you were talking about the reference to the seventy Members. Seventy Members refer to the ability to drive political action. But, obviously, Mr. Torra will be president of all Catalans. Actually, that happens to all governments. Mr. Rajoy is supposed to be president of all the Spaniards, and Mr. Hollande was of all the French, and Mr. Macron is of all the French, as well as not having a majority, a large majority, the absolute majority of the representatives of the French in the assembly. Mr. Iceta, from the PSC, look, I want to throw them a flower. I used to say that, please, this isn't a slug, and I didn't give it strictly for you. With the tongue... – Mr.Iceta, I didn't say it strictly for you, it's a flower – with the tongue, please, that you don't play any more – with the tongue, that you don't play any more. And in this sense, I applaud you for the ability that the PSC held in its 80s to keep the language from becoming a weapon of political conflict. And, therefore, I want to thank him for the effort of Reventós, Obiols, etc. More things. Indeed, Mr Riera said that at this hour, or this morning, they have occurred, while we are debating here, arrests of the CDR of Lleida. I said before: "Please, until when 155? Now expand the question, I make it a little more extensive: please, until when you repress it? End when? Proper repression. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Greetings.]] More things. Certainly – certainly – if you want to lie, say what you're feeling; but I don't seem to be lying because I seem to have been well explained. But at this time it has also been known that there will be a meeting tomorrow – certainly, Mrs. Arrimadas, I don't think that Mr. Rivera has been summoned, but, go... – between Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Sánchez to talk about how Mr. Torra, President Tora, are stopping. Carai, quin dialeg – carai, quin dialeg. More things – and I'm done. The other day, after here, I said I was happy with the proposal we had made, I was happy with the ability to offer the country a transformation project, and on the evening I went on television and the journalist said to me: "Listen, what are you happy about? So I'm exactly happy with this: to offer the country a project, a way out of the situation we have. The future to me makes me happy. Hopes me make me happy, makes us happy. And about these streets, if they're always ours, if they're not always ours... you know I recommend them? That what would be good if it were ours, from all of us – because from here on out they see some cares..., some moody cares–, what would be good is that the sense of humor, the irony and going for the world with a smile was actually always ours and everyone's. Mr. Torra, I am waiting with candles for the vote to say: "Mr. Torra, yes, you are our president. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.49.0	Once the debate is over, we will proceed to the vote. Call it a vote. [[Pause.]] According to Rule 4.4 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and Government and Rule 150.2 of the Rules of this Parliament, because the candidate has been invested he must, as you know, obtain the votes of the simple majority of this chamber, and this election would also include approval of the government program. Before starting the vote, the record that, according to Rule 95 of the Rules, the following voting delegations took place: the deputies Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva and Antoni Comín have delegated their vote to Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and the deputies Jordi Sánchez, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull and Carles Puigdemont have delegated their vote to Mr Elsa Artadi, spokesman of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. As we did at the first debate, the vote is public by vote. It is voted by alphabetical order, starting for the deputy or deputy the name from which you came out extremity by lot. [[Pause.]] The number that came out is number 43, which corresponds to Mrs. Maialen Fernández Cabezas. So let's start voting from here. I pray, in this case, to the First Secretary and to the Fourth Secretary, Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós and Mrs Alba Vergés, who vaginate the names of the deputies and the deputies, and the reminder that you will have to raise and vote « yes, « no ». The members of the Bureau will vote at the end. Secretarial 4th, when you want to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.50.0	Maialen Fernández Cabezas : « No. María del Camino Fernández Riol : « No. Munia Fernández-Jordan Celorio: "No. Maria Isabel Ferrer i Álvarez : « Yes. Lluís Font i Espinos : « Yes. Josep Maria Forné i Febrer : « Yes. Montserrat Fornells i Sole : « Yes. Irene Fornós Short : « Yes. Imma Gallardo Barceló : « Yes. Xavier García Albiol: "No. Gemma Geis i Carreras : « Yes. Anna Geli i España : « Oc. Pol Gibert Horcas: "No. Gerard Gómez del Moral i Fuster : « Yes. Dimas Gragera Velaz: "No. Eva Granados Galiano : « No. María Luz Guilarte Sánchez: "No. Lluís Guinó i Upirós : « Yes. Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé: "No. Miquel Iceta i Llorens: "No. Josep Maria Jové i Lladó : « Yes. Oriol Junqueras and Lives. [[Sergi Sabria i Benito says: "Yes.]] Maria Assumption Laïlla i Jou: "Yes. Saloua Laouaji Faridi : « Yes. Andrea Levy Soler: "No. Noemi Llauradó Sans : « Yes. Yolanda López Fernández: "No. Montserrat Macià i Gou : « Yes. Aurora Madaula i Giménez: "Yes. Marta Maderas i Mir: "Yes. Ernest Maragall i Mira: "Yes. Ignacio Martín Blanco : « No. David Mejía Ayra: "No. Raúl Moreno Montaña : « No. Marta Moreta Rovira: "No. Antoni Morral i Berenguer: "Yes. Jordi Munell i Garcia: "Yes. Blanca Victoria Navarro Pacheco: "No. Esther Niubó Cidoncha : « No. Joan Josep Nuet i Pujals: "No. Óscar Ordeig i Molist : « No. Mònica Palacín Paris : « Yes. Teresa Pallarès Piqué: "Yes. Ferran Pedret i Santos: "No. Óscar Peris and Ròdenas : « Yes. Carles Puigdemont and Casamajó. [[Elsa Artadi and Vila said: "Yes.]] Eduard Pujol i Bonell: "Yes. Xavier Quinquillà Durich: "Yes. Marta Ribas Frías : « No. Rut Ribas i Martí: "Yes. Carles Riera Albert : « Abstention. Josep Riera i Font : « Yes. Javier Rivas Escamilla: "No. Manuel Rodríguez de l'Hotellerie de Fallois : « No. David Rodríguez i González: "Yes. Santi Rodríguez i Serra : « No. Lorena Roldán Suárez : « No. Alicia Romero Llano : « No. Raül Romeva i Rueda. [[Sergi Sabria i Benito says: "Yes.]] Ferran Roquer i Padrosa: "Yes. Josep Rull and Andreu. [[Elsa Artadi and Vila said: "Yes.]] Sergi Sabria and Benito: "Yes. Mònica Sales de la Cruz : « Yes. Josep Lluís Salvató i Tenesa : « Yes. Natalia Sánchez Dipp : « Abstention. Alfonso Sánchez Fisac: "No. Jordi Sánchez and Picanyol. [[Elsa Artadi and Vila said: "Yes.]] Carlos Sánchez Martín: "No. Sergio Sanz Jiménez: "No. Susana Segovia Sánchez: "No. Sonia Sierra Infante: "No. Beatriz Silva Gallardo : « No. Maria Sirvent Scrig : « Abstention. Bernat Sole i Barril: "Yes. Jorge Soler González: "No. Marc Solsona and Aixalà: "Yes. Anna Tarrés i Campà: "Yes. Francesc Ten i Costa : « Yes. Jordi Terrades i Santacreu: "No. Quim Torra i Pla: "Yes. Jordi Tourull and Black. [[Elsa Artadi and Vila said: "Yes.]] Elisabeth Valencia Mimbrero : « No. María Francisca Valle Fuentes : « No. Francesc Viaplana Manresa : « Yes. Laura Vílchez Sánchez: "No. Ruben Wagensberg Ramon : « Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.51.0	Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez : « No. Jordi Albert i Caballero : « Yes. Jessica Albiach Satorres: "No. Matías Alonso Ruiz : « No. Héctor Amello Montiu : « No. Vidal Aragonese Chicharro : « Abstention. Inés Arrimadas García : « No. Elsa Artadi i Vila: "Yes. Eva Baró Ramos : « Yes. Martin Eusebio Barra López : « No. Albert Batet i Canadell: "Yes. Susana Beltrán García : « No. David Bertran Román: "No. Laura Borràs and Castanyer: "Yes. Marina Bravo Sobrino: "No. Rafel Bruguera Batalla: "No. José María Cano Navarro: "No. Carlos Carrizosa Torres : « No. Magda Casamitjana and Aguilà: "Yes. Jean Castel Sucarrat: "No. Antoni Castellà and Clavé : « Yes. Carles Castillo Rosique : « No. Anna Caula i Paretas : « Yes. David Cid Colomer: "No. Ferran Civit i Martí: "Yes. Narcis Clara Lloret : « Yes. Antoni Comín Oliveres. [[Sergi Sabria i Benito says: "Yes.]] Francesc de Dalmases i Thió : « Yes. Naomi of Sifré Street: "No. Fernando de Páramo Gómez : « No. Carmen de Rivera i Pla: "No. Adriana Delgado i Herreros : « Yes. Jenn Díaz Ruiz : « Yes. Xavier Domènech Sampere: "No. Francisco Javier Domínguez Serrano : « No. Najat Driuech Ben Moussa: "Yes. Chakir the Homrani Lesfar : « Yes. Assume Escarp Gibert: "No. Ramon Swordler Partners: "No. Gemma Espigares Tribó : « Yes. Antonio Espinosa Cerrato : « No. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez : « No. I, lastly, the members of the Bureau: Alba Vergés i Bosch: "Yes. Joan García González: "No. David Pérez Ibáñez: "No. Eusebi Campdepadrós and Pucurull: "Yes. José María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa : « No. Josep Costa i Rossello : « Yes. Roger Torrent and Ramío: "Yes. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.52.0	The result of the vote is the following: 66 votes, 'yes; 65 votes, 'no, and 4 abstentions. Given, therefore, that Mr Quim Torra and Pla in this vote obtained 66 votes, which mean the simple majority that establishes Article 4.4 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, remains invested president of the Generality of Catalonia. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] The President of the Generalitat wants to address the chamber. Forward, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.53.0	Very short. Very briefly, to thank all of you, so this vote. And to President Puigdemont for his generosity, for his act of responsibility, and because we invest him, which, as I said, is also one of the objects of everything we propose. I want to thank the parliamentary group that gave me the support, to Junts for Catalonia. The truth is, they've been a couple of passionate months, they've been a couple of months that... who was supposed to tell us all folds, that we'd end up like this. I thank you very much for your company, your... feeling so esteemed, so accompanied. Thank you very much. I hope it's still the same from now on. The companies of Esquerra, first, I forgive for not answering before I had to do it in the turn of the line, it was to tell you the same one that was going to tell you now: thank you very much for your support. We'll work well, we'll work together. We have the same objective. We'll make a republic and we'll make a Catalan republic. Thank you very much. I also want to thank my family, who are here and without whom I would not have followed what I am. I really appreciate you coming. And to the people of Catalonia..., I would like to end with the words that for me they have represented everything in my political trajectory, that are the words that Carrasco and Anmiguera said just before he died, and that it is a cry that I would like the chamber to share with me: « Visca Catalunya free! [[See "Visca!. Strong applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-14-0902.54.0	Thank you, President. Now to finish the session I invite you to sing the national anthem. [[The chamber, dempeus, sings Els Segadors. Greetings.]] The session's up.
