ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.1.0	Let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government on the situation of squadron and bomber movements]] [[300-00051/12]] The next item on the agenda, the Dotze, is the question to the Government on the situation of squadron and bomber movements, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. The question is made by Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.2.0	Good morning, everyone, especially the braves and braves who are here. Allow me to start again with a statement that I believe is the basis for talking about any security-related issues, to avoid demagogicities and not to create an unnecessary social alarm. Security in Catalonia still has good numbers and poor statistical data today. And this is thanks, and it is the next thing to say after this first conclusion, to the personal dedication and vocational attitude of their workers and workers. And it is that the Government of the Generality, succeeding governments of the Generality, is making that security is found, and emerges in general, in a phase of free fall and very dangerous liquidation and that can end up putting in danger the same public servants and even all citizenship. I know the counselor will say to me: "Do not exaggerate yourself. Yesterday he explained, therefore, a series of negotiations that have started. But, look, Mr. Counselor, the situation doesn't start from scratch. I, you know, I've said this a number of times: the situation starts at least 15 or less, and we have to get to zero. And you have to hear, therefore, that you keep the watch until you see that it actually goes from the word to the fact, from the word to the fact. The Generality's Fire Department has been warning this for a long time: there is no suitable staff in the park, of times or commands, not to mention the situation of deterioration of vehicles, of old installations and equipment without proper maintenance, or directly expired, that are not in condition to guarantee the safety of who makes them serve them. They carry weeks or months to warn you. If he goes on like this, there's gonna be some drama we're gonna have to regret all the folds. They don't know if it's going to be a firefighter first or if it's going to be citizenry so they can't attend to an emergency that comes up with a certain complication. The Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra has also been in an extreme situation for years to come in order to cover the different ordinary services of the day-to-day: they must continually pull structural hours, and local police, which are sometimes also seen as weary, because the situation of lack of resources has generated a clear excess of workload and also causes, in complex situations, counselor, a real risk for the physical integrity of the agents and agents. You're putting public security workers at risk. I don't go into the work load of an enveloped plant, nor into the obligation to do extra hours to laugh, nor into the fatigue and discouragement of a plant that was all expected, because it really creates the important role and high responsibility that it plays as guarantors of security, but they have seen how it is converted into the aces of all times. What do you have to detail? That they can't find enough money for a day? Don't worry, the movers and the firefighters can take it, they're troops, tough people, and they're used to tough people. So no, counselor, this has to be done. And what I know is that I am very conscious, I have said before, that you have found yourself in a situation that is already very complex, unravelled and almost to the limit, but you do not allow him to be maligned even more, and act, and come to the end truly, if he does not want to be responsible for the de facto dismantling of the emergency services of Catalonia, or the person responsible that, after repeated warnings, even on the part of the Labour Inspectorate, there is some disgrace to regret. This question is given by the accumulated irresponsibility, by inaction, by the situation of discouragement and the impotence of some desperate plants, but also by the facts and words of the political leaders who today have the competence of the high-level security leadership in Catalonia: of the Generality Police and of Bombers, two historical institutions that have always tried to be at the side of the people, and that now in the 21st century they have become two European referents for their efficiency, for their great specialization and professionalism. Our firefighters, for example, have various excarceration awards, which is to take people trapped in sinister vehicles, and all such teams go far beyond their useful lives, and the commands, logically, because they don't have a major wear for the real situation, so don't let them even use them to train. Train yourself, for sure, that's a word that's almost a chimera, to the Bombers Cos of Catalonia. They don't have prepared spaces; they don't even have, so they don't have, reschedules or where to leave the stuff after a performance or a hypothetical training. Do you know how a bomber's stuff ends after a fire goes out, when it goes out? Do you have any idea, or do you have any of these political commands that you're aware of, that haven't touched a fire in your life? So the stuff, ladies and gentlemen, ends up sloping, completely sloping, and, if they don't have a relapse or where to put it to dry, I've come to see them with my eyes on the ground drying up in the sun in case they have to come out again, since they can't take that same stuff again. Do you know what repair conditions you need a piece of flame retardant? For what I've seen in reality, you put on a stick of those of the air, of all life, and, uh, to continue working and to the next fire. So it's a irresponsibility and a heavy risk for people who need to be especially protected, because they're the ones who put their physical integrity at risk to save us all in society at times of emergence. Let's depend on them; let's say that they have the proper protection to deal with the important risks inherent in their work. Or the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. It's a lot of times we've been moved, and so on, like the citizenry, for the work of the thousand moves and moves they try every day to give society more security, more democracy and, ultimately, more freedom. We all know of Daesh's latest terrorist attacks in Catalonia; the Mossos were recognised at European police level, for the efficiency and speed with which they acted, always based on the basic principles that naturally follow a modern and democratic police: congruence, opportunity and proportionality. From all its history, the institution has always been at the side of the government of return, counselor, showing its loyalty to the law, and even to the Catalan differential, if they want. We all decided that we wanted a modern police, that you spoke in our language, that you were well prepared, and that from Convergence and Unity to the PSC, going through the different tripartites that there was, was in general a round success of all folds. We also have to say, yesterday the Nuet company remembered it here. But, at the same time, or perhaps immediately after this triumph, this whole system begins to collapse when the political leaders of some groups who have led the Generality – usually, casually, from the Catalan right – have wanted to promote and make some of their own organization. Each of these irresponsible ones has wanted to impose charges, promote and place their attachments in the front of the Squadron's Cushion, and here's where the problem starts effectively: starting from among itself and accepting this political use sibil·li to go back, under the table. Years have passed and some people have gone by, others have stayed and others are passing the days waiting for retirement while you, Mr. Buch, and Mr. Torra, today we do not have the luck that we accompany each other, what they do is to put the most stuff in the fire. The last hard mistake, and excuses that I once again comment on it, counselor, in which you have certainly remained alone, is this Kafkian situation in which the President, who returns to Slovenia, gives an ultimate to his own interior adviser because you purge the command structure of Mossos. We understand, for having simply seen some superficial images, that there have been attitudes, he says, "doesn't agree with the standards of a democratic police. And the Councillor of the Interior, who also finds it very difficult, makes these words, this statement and states that he will take action. The term given to the president arrives everywhere and, as we all know, there is absolutely nothing going on. Well, yes, the President's going to Montserrat to do forty-four hours of breakfast. Aware of the hard mistake made to his own Squad's Squad's Squad's advisor apologizes, and says that the performance was globally correct. And he's not expecting any final investigation. I mean, neither for one thing nor for the counter, it's the same, on the march. While the Director General is standing at the side of the moves, the Secretary General is missing. All this conflict in which the police of the people of Catalonia wanted to place began for you, when President Torra also told the CoR that they were pressing, and, of course, they were pressing. But they're not wrong, they're not just pushing the moves, they're also pushing the peaceful people, the working class, directly in many cases: truckers, storekeepers, small autonomies, etc. And in the end, you have no doubt, Counselor, that the trout will come and you will end up turning into the direct objects of this most radical part of the social protest. They wanted to create a monster and that monster someday too will come to see you. We cannot accept that they are continually underprivileging the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad We cannot allow you to make the operational valuations from policy and technical disconnection. I really don't know what they want to provoke. Well, yeah, it looks like they want to get along with each other. And if one thing I know for sure is that the key to success I don't know, but the key to failure is, to be sure, wanting to satisfy everyone. They're carrying, counselor, their political credibility, they don't even know where to go out. Sometimes, for their actions, you seem to want and need at these moments of political crisis a political police as well – and tell him what it looks like, huh? Counselor, tell him that it seems – that I acted in what you think is most necessary. So we won't allow it. And I can assure them that they are divided and moved, that they have a lot of respect for you because you represent the Government of Catalonia, but that, in any case, they will not be able to take their oath of loyalty to the laws and to maintain order and security, nor will they allow it. For all this, I can already advance the presentation of a motion on these extremes; but, meanwhile, they ask for a reflection and, why not, a remodeling to the Department of Interior, where people have to be with pure technical criteria. Because your new team and some who have preceded you, Mr. Counsellor, are responsible for all the discomfort of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and within the Cos de Bombers, also from Catalonia, including volunteers. They are responsible for their discouragement, their anxiety, depression, depression and the personal risks they are running to give an emergency service with dignity. Precisely, the one I think you don't do. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.4.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Good morning, all of you. Thank you, Congressman, for reporting on the extremely complicated situation we have in the department, right? , and concretely in the field of the moves and the bombers. I mean, that's one thing I already know, that I've already passed, that I've explained, publicly and privately, so it doesn't matter what you relate to it. Anyway, he's reported it and he's fine, but there's a series of data that you haven't just adjusted to the truth. I will not touch it, because I understand that it is the fruit, perhaps, of its disconnection, but there is one thing that I can't do: you can't say that the commands here have been put down by political order, because basically the commands were put down at the time of the tripartite. The commands we have now are set up in the time of the tripartite. Therefore, consider it yourself. And, if not, so, look, you can talk to a counselor, to an ex-Interior advisor who's in his files, and you can explain it to him– he's sure to get back to you–, you can explain the commands he and his predecessor, or his successor, didn't you? And the ones I've put in, he's got it all figured out. So, well, we're good to report that things are complicated, we're all good to worry about. But what you can't do is make guys see for losers and want to try to misinterpret or deceive people. I think we're doing ourselves a little favor in a very delicate subject like what we're talking about right now, that it's the security and emergence of this country. And we can do two things: do what you did here, what it is to come here and complain and say how badly everyone does and how badly the body is, or two, working to fix it. And here you will decide what you want to do. I've decided the second: work to fix it. You can stay in the camp of lamentation and say, "What a shame it is, what a pity you have done, what a pity I would do. And it's already, either to roll around and look for solutions, to argue and look for solutions. Actually, I don't know if they remember, but in the appearances I've had in this Parliament more than one of you told me that it was worth it and that you defended the bodies, and that you see it, right? So I've already done it – I've already done it. Now you need to see him, if they're brave and if they're defending the emergencies and security of this country before their group presidents at the time of voting the premise. Now I want to see her courage, I want to see her. If they are really concerned about the security and emergencies of this country, I want to see them vote on a premise and, with the data that I gave them yesterday in human resources and that today I will give them in infrastructure matter, really, if they are worried and if they are brave and want to face the best of things. I think I'll see you in the next few weeks. I looked, yesterday, from human resources, I detailed in the inquiry of the company Nuet, of the deputy Nuet, who, of the fifteen petitions that had made us the MosSOS Platform together with the unions, twelve were solved or in lives of solution. We have three left, which are early retirement, the general table and the Social Welfare Fund. But I wanted to highlight the bargaining will on the part of the unions and on the part of the department. I wanted to point out that we were coming from a long way. And that's what you've already explained, so I won't be enlarged. We come a long way, it's true, and we've found ourselves in a very complex and complicated situation. But that means that from the first moment on, we've been working. And, plus, we have seventy-two people under judicial investigation. This also needs to be seen, which is very tense, people. And you also have to worry about whether the real threat we were facing this week of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, of the Government of the Spanish State, respects the Mossos d'Esquadra, so it helps or tensiones the body more. I mean, they're also doing this thinking, if it really helps. Because it's very good to see that the others are wrong, it's very good to go back to the others who do bad things; but sometimes one also has to look at the miracle and think: "So maybe mine or I haven't been at all uncertain. It is true that the political situation does not help, and it is also true that the professionalism of the bodies of squadron movements and of bombers, but concretely of squadron mosses, because now I am talking about squadron mosses, is more than demonstrated. We've seen it in three camps like organized crime, with narcopies, with terrorism, but we also see it every day when we go down the street, which is what's most important and what I claim. And an experience of two years of mayor shows me that people usually complain when something goes wrong, but it doesn't matter when things go well. And that we can walk through the cities, through the people, with absolute peace and freedom, and that we can express ourselves with absolute freedom, it is also thanks and deserves to these 16,400, currently, squad movements that are aging every day for our security. Regarding the investment camp – which I explained to you yesterday that today I would talk about the investments – so I can't detail who the parties we have originally planned will be, because we have the general amount of what the Interior assumption will be, but I can tell you that all the adventures in Chapter I already announced yesterday. And now, therefore, the sayings that it has planned to make investments in mid-air; it has planned to make investments in technology; it has planned to make investments in formation, in vehicle renewal, in material renewal and in resources against the fight against terrorism. Obviously, there are no more, but these are the ones who take the first chapters from the beginning. And, obviously, the reform, also, of the commissariats, that there is – for example, the first, that is Vic's – that has never touched since when it was inaugurated, now thirty years ago. As for the bombers, so, yesterday I also explained to them what the human resources plan was, right? , which is a clear bet for the increase of the template. We have calculated 250 per year, depending on the presuppositional availabilities. If you decide, because the assumption is done voting here, that instead of 250 is 400, it will depend on all of you, it will not depend on us. We, with the economic situation we have, have made this proposal and, therefore, all the best that you can do will be welcome and I will applaud them, indeed. But, for example – I said yesterday – we invested from..., I expect that I was appointed councillor on June 2nd, I expect that the department is effective around the 24th, around Sant Joan, and, therefore, the process of management starts from Sant Joan. And, in this period, we've had the Augustus between us, and we've also had the October 3rd box lock. All this – all this – in the Department of Interior we have invested 5,3_million euros. And here we haven't talked: we've invested in mascaras, urban rescue equipment, water rescue equipment, thirty-one thermographic rooms, a thousand handles; building maintenance, 1_million euros; and excarceration equipment, which you cited, huh? And what we're predicting in short is the purchase, acquisition of 92 vehicles, heavy rural bombs, gloves, boats, excarceration material. Here we have 3_million euros, as you mentioned; 3_million euros in purchase of excarceration material, 411 ERA teams; locker rooms, 10_million euros, as you mentioned– also previewed, locker rooms, 10_million euros–; 500 ampoules of area– obviously, they are necessary–, 125 thermal rooms; maintenance of infrastructure and parks. So, we've seen the situation, we've analyzed it, we've marked a plate. This plan, depending on the presuppositional availability, will be executed. If not, we have given our faces, we have roamed and we have sought solutions. What I'm proposing is this, which is what I've proposed to you for appearances: that, so, if you want, we go hand in hand and work together. There's no kind of problem. Now, there's an indispensable tool because all that stuff, that's the premise. Because, if not, we're going with the assumption extended since 2017, and it's complicated; it's complicated to recover everything we're going into in the field of moves and bombers. I'm not talking about other camps, which I'm sure they can talk about, also in similar situations, but I'm talking exclusively about moves and bombers. We have to recover a lot, because you don't know if you've said less or less than fifteen. I recognize it: we are not less than u, we are at least fifteen. So getting it back will cost us a lot. The will is there, the firm is there. The economic availability is what it is, but we've put in, so all the grey stuff to be able to fix it. And, besides, we agreed with the unions, I mean we talked to them and we designed a plan. In the case of the firefighters, 2025; with the squadron moves, we are working on the fifteen petitions that were made to us at work, but I am convinced that when the process of union elections is over and there are representatives in the union delegations we can also design the space of infrastructure, the future of infrastructure. Therefore, the will is to face it, to face the challenge and, moreover, not to do it alone, but to do it with the unions as well. I'd love for you to be there, too, and you'd love them very much, really, not me, but the combination of administrative workers and workers, and especially Catalans and Catalans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the congressman's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.6.0	Thank you, Counselor. Where's the ball, counselor? It looks like that game of trillers, a little, if I may say so, I say it with affection and respect. It seems to me that you are an optimist of mena and mass triumphalist – and mass triumphalist. Do you know what's going on, Counselor? That's what I'd say is that he's the third advisor I'm sitting in his parliamentary office. That's what this is about: there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal, there's a shoal. Surely you stopped digging yesterday or yesterday, but, of course, what you can't pretend is that we judge what you did yesterday and that some unions are already asking, they're already discussing what you sold yesterday. I think he has to get used to having an opposition first. It's all right. And talking about the assumptions, so it also seems a little frivolous to me, because neither you nor I will negotiate the assumptions. I can also get out here and say, "Well, we'll vote for the assumptions if you vote for us in Madrid, which brings 2,100_million euros more to Catalonia. And I don't think he'd go wrong with the statement either. Let's see, of fifteen requests from Mossos d'Esquadra says that twelve are solved. So, Mr. Counselor... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, in life of solution. What the unions say is: « a new feeling to the collective, « another lack of respect towards the union organizations, « is called at 16.30 to the Department of Economy to meet with the number two of Economy and Interior; at 18 hours they have not yet arrived; they appear at 19 hours without the two numbers two, neither of Interior nor of Economy. That's what the unions see. Bombers. I've already told him that there is a situation that is a fear: abusing external hours, wrapping up the staff, obsolete materials, evil, old... I know you're trying to do it, but you have to be aware of... I know, too, that you're aware of the situation, but what you can't sell is triumphalism. And what can't come here either is to say: "So no, no, the situation is..., of fifteen, twelve solved. Home, a little rigorous! The situation is that it's very worrying, counselor, the situation is very worrying. We have a letter sent to a mayor, from Bombers' unions, informing her that the park is under the legal minimums and that the population is at risk. I have an email, too, that I won't tell you from who you are, that you say there's a firefighter who doesn't have a helmet that adjusts to ensure his safety; but this bomber, while not so incidence, will remain fully operational, without the safety helmet. We have news of the Diari de Tarragona d'ahir itself: "A good part of the fleet of firefighters' vehicles, for scrapping. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I know you're very aware of the situation, but don't come and sell motorcycles either. I think you're trying to act, but we have to be very strict, because the situation really, as you yourself recognize, is not at zero, it's at least fifteen or less. You're more afraid. The one from Mossos d'Esquadra. Districts of Barcelona where there are only one or two patrols. "If there are three servants, give me a move, "you have to decide who is left unattended. The Central Intelligence Crime Unit – I can't believe this, and I'm telling you, please, say 'you're not right – you don't have ADSL connection. Cold areas where moves and moves don't have the right stuff. It's fake data from planned servers. That's what I've been told. There are things that are relatively easy, counselor, and that don't even depend on assumptions, that just depend on wanting to take care of people. For example, do you know that at the delivery of the medal that was given to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra for the action that was done to Cambrils' terrorist acts, you did not invite the agents directly involved in the operation? Those who stopped the terrorists were not invited to the delivery of the medal. Did you know that, Counselor? It's things that don't cost a lot of money. It's taking care of the staff, which is an absolutely unmotivated staff, which needs some kind of good-will gesture, and many gestures don't depend entirely on money. And the Bombers template, the same. They're desperate, because they can't find any support. And now they see, so, as I say, that the second or third counselor goes here and promises us I don't know what. And maybe you're full, I'm not saying no. It also has the benefit of positive doubt. But, of course, understand that with the situation we have and with the precedents, so we are, as a minimum, concerned about the limited situation to which it has come. I insist: there are many things that do not depend on money, that can be done and that can lower tension. I think we've talked about it some time, you and I, and I think that this gesture, on the part of the council, would heat up the bombers and the move.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.8.0	Thank you, President. Where's the ball? So the ball is broken – it's broken – and it's old, and it's worn out and we have to fix it. Okay? So the ball is in here. Don't tell me I'm making a triumphalist speech when I tell him we're leaving at least fifteen. Do not tell me that I make a triumphalist speech when I say to him: "To this end we have come. If you can get more, I'll appreciate it. Therefore, it is not a triumphalist speech, for God's sake! You can try to catch my words, but what you can't say is lies. That I didn't have a triumphalist speech, in any case; what I told him was the situation as we found it, the situation as we are facing it and where we are today. I did it yesterday late and I did it today. And I say again: the reality does not accompany the excellence and professionalism of the body. That's right, I said it in his parliament more than once. And, as I have found myself facing it, as well as I can, as well as the whole department, and also as well as all the Mosso and Bomber workers and workers. It's more, yesterday I staged the recognition that these people deserve, that it's that we all have to stand up and applaud them for doing all the work they've done in really critical situations, in situations they haven't accompanied... The Administration hasn't accompanied them with the material they required. I'm not talking about money, because it's important, but it's also very important the material they require. And that's why we've been here since the first day. He says he's seen the third counselor before. With it, then, help the third! Miri, I don't know if he helped the first one, I don't know if he helped the second one, but I'll tell him to help the third one. Help'm– help'm. If there's no problem. Yeah, listen to me, we'll settle for this. We'll have more political discussions. The day the MosSOS Platform and the unions tell us: "We have these fifteen petitions, the department does not deny one. He says to them: "We have our own. Your fifteen petitions are ours. And we made it out of a police council, and from abroad, we've made all the meetings. And it's not triumphalistic to say that at 15, thirteen are solved or in lives of solution. Look, I'll detail it, I'll detail it, because I have it here... [[Pause.]] And we've explained more than once, those that depend on the Interior and those that don't depend on the Interior. Miri, of those who do not depend on the Interior: in early retirement, we expect reply from the State. I don't criticize anyone. The reality is that the State announced that they could retire at the age of sixty and have a problem with how this is handled. Clearly, there are a lot more people, not only are there movements, there are also civilian guards and national police. The lack of effectiveness; at the Security Board we have already asked. Let's hope the government of the Spanish state says yes. That, let's remember, six years ago they told us no, and I didn't see, there, a unitary cry against the State, be who it is, claiming these moves. Because if we're where we are, it's because we haven't had one of us in six years. The reality is that. Or, the last thing to do was to promote moves was Councilman Puig. And now we haven't made one, with Councilman Jané, that we'll have her in June, five hundred, but the reality is that we're at least two thousand, according to what was approved on a safety board. To form part of the general table, which is a petition made to us by the trade unions of Mossos. Well, here's a legal problem that they don't rely on the Department of the Interior; it's an interpretation that's about the Generality, whether they can be there or not. And from here on out, when this is resolved, then it will be resolved or not, this petition they have made. The cent_per_cent charge for IT, done. You pay them 13 and 14, done. The Social Welfare Fund, standing at the general table that the Generality has with the unions. Complement of productivity, approved at the general table. Eating waltz, hanging from the general table. As far as the Interior is concerned...Forgive me, there's a topic that doesn't depend on the Interior, that is the personal subjects, that are in negotiation to find a specific solution for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, differentiated from the rest of the workers. For what it does to the Department of Interior : Payment Now, paid. Remuneration equalization payment, 6.7_millions for 2019. The Q5 quadrant for everyone; it's already signed with Transit and we're pending ARSET, ARIC and Apen. Complement already medium and holidays, paying 2017, right now. The professional career of the Citizen Security Unit, which we agree with, we are absolutely in agreement and we work together, but it requires a time of study and offer and joint work. And outside hours, proposal of increment. Thus, of the fifteen, thirteen – twelve – are solved or in the process of being solved. And, here, we did it. I repeat it, in fact, more extensive; we seek a solution for all, because, in the end and in the end, the better working conditions of the workers of Mosso and Bombers is the better of security and freedom of all Catalans and Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the service to run in Catalonia]] [[300-00053/12]] Let's continue with the fourteenth of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on the service of the road to Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. He exposes the inquiry, Mr. Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Members– or member– of the Government, illustrious deputies, councillor of Territori, we have to talk about trains and rollers, and, from the start, I present another lethal trio– there is the trio of 155, but there is also the trio of the witch train –: Renfe, Adif and the ministry. And I'm also talking about our political prisoners and this non-violent denunciation action, which is the wave of fame, made by the chairman of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Jordi Sánchez, the Turulla and Forn Councillors, and the Territorial Councillor, Josep Rull. So good is the misery, injustice and shame of the State, and that, with Councillor Rull, Councillor Calvet, we can talk about trains and infrastructure again, because, the truth is that the Councillor... Counselor, we find you missing. I know Martorell's son, that, I've already told them, I don't know how many times, Martorell, where Augusta was already passing, is a very powerful railroad nude. For my people there are three great routes: there is the AVE, wide international route; there are the lines of Manresa and Igualada, of the Railways of the Generalitat, which run towards Barcelona - Plaça Espanya – these lines are the lane, the train of the small road– ; for Martorell there are also the trains of the Renfe, the rollers of Renfe, in the line of Vilafranca, from Sant Vicenç de Calders to Manresa, passing through Martorell, Terrassa, the Hospitallet de Llobregat and Barcelona - is that in the days of the trains of the great road. Of these lines, the AVE is very good, I wouldn't know how to say otherwise. Railroads are fine. Since the year 79, when the Generalitat assumed the lines that Feve managed, after the dying of the General Company of the Catalan Railways, since the year 79, the truth is that many millions have been invested, and many millions with sense. Who saw him and who saw him, the lane. And that doesn't mean that the user has the whole right of the world asking for more. I, if we talk about the lines of Barcelona - Plaça Catalunya - Terrassa i Sabadell, also, who has seen them and who wants them. What about Renfe? So Renfe Raffle is the train of the Tell me. It is the story of a project that is little clear, little defined, left out of God's hand, that no one has felt the real need to defend, to believe it, to throw it forward, to the band of the advisers of the Government of the Generality, crying in the desert, and of the complaints, enormous complaints, of the users. The Renfe road, for many graphics that are made from the company explaining that there are many trains that are seen to run without any incidence – it would just be missing –, the roadways, will all agree that they are not good. One of the biggest problems in Catalonia is the Renfe rollers, it's Renfe. And when I say Renfe, I also say Adif, that I already know that they are not legally the same, that it is the trap that they make use of, certainly, to do the "where the ball is when it comes to taking responsibility. In this Parliament, sometimes there are people who talk about cohesion. Miri, speaking of cohesion, Renfe, honourable councillor, is a great cohesioner. The people of the Hebrews are trineing with Renfe; Tortosa, Ambosta, the Ampulla and Endins, to the Ribera of the Hebrews, Móra, Flix. The people of the Hebrews, now, are dragging us into space as we denounce a situation of secular hardship. But it's Ripoll, too. Mayor Munell can confirm that. How much do you need for Puigcerdà, Ripoll, Vic, Barcelona train? How much? Two hours? So no. Three hours from Puigcerdà, and one hour and three-quarters– two hours from Ripoll. But the people of the Bages, in central Catalonia, need– this morning, I also did something to the mayor– an hour and thirty-five minutes to get off from Manresa to Barcelona, and the Calafs – ai, the Calafs – to go to Lleida, an hour and came, before well, that it is a sincere life. Don't you find it strange that Renfe agrees with so many people? I read it first-person. Villafranca del Penedès, the station falls. Actually, it's a non-existent station; cau. We're so used to it that it looks normal, but the stations wouldn't have to fall. Upstairs the train, head inside, you have not reached the Granada del Penedès that you already see you are taking the time, not the win, but you lose it. Okay, it's a feeling, but it's an extended and shared sense of the country. Renfe, effectively, cohesive. The road haulage service transports more than 150_million passengers annually, but, while the use has not increased, the state's investments have fallen. The trio of the witch train – Renfe, Adif and the ministry – responds to a way of doing, a style of life, a way of going for the world that is to take 'into the skin and think that this can be eternal. So no, the country, this country is worth a roll service that you don't have. If we're talking about the wheelchair service, we're talking about people. Talking about people is talking about life, and taking care of people is taking care of the country. I'll translate it into concrete data. According to a report by the Workers' Committees of Catalonia, last September, of the 134 rolling stations of Barcelona, only 20 are adapted to people with reduced mobility. Is that taking care of people? No, no, Renfe stations don't shine, they never shine, and trains don't shine either. Where is it, should we ask ourselves, the limit of evil served? How far can we go? So, for that reason, today, from Junts to Catalunya, we denounce a situation of hardship that is impossible to continue to pass. Now, there are Members of this Parliament, good people, who know they're hard to do this portrait of a cruelty so obvious, so irrefutable, that they share it, that they know I'm short, but they know they're hard because they're deputies or well of the PP... No, of the PP, there's no. We are talking about roadblocks and the PP there is no way; in change, there are no Socialists, who know that they are also partly responsible for this disaster. That it's Madrid's fault? Yeah, yeah. So it's Madrid's fault. The Renfe, the Adif, when we talk about Catalonia, live in obsolescence, and Renfe and Adif know, and know that it's late, that the situation is urgent, very difficult, and that it's impossible to fix it with inversions of fire, punctual, because the pilot of the fire has gone big – big, big, big – and now it's huge. The question: and, now, what do we do? I can't be a technician, I can't be a savior; I can't feel the same way. The leaving of State functions in the Renfe rollers is also another shame. Counselor, Catalonia is a country that goes well when it's at the front and this front is synonymous with transformation. So Renfe is the front and transformation denial. Of those responsible? Home, there are a few, all those who have perpetrated, from the despatxos of the central power of the State, this huge prey of hair in Catalonia. In this sense, and to be fair, the ill-governed Mercè Sala, which, by the volts of '92, made an effort, was drawn from this sack of evil. Whose fault is it, Deia? So gold medal of leather grip, Mariano Rajoy, and silver medal, Minister Pastor. They came to Barcelona – they came to Barcelona –, they announced a rain of millions that some naïve people believed, these naïve people who, if they shave a little, they're already fine, they're already fine if they shave it..., if it's a label hair catch accompanied by a cupet to the skeleton and a « man, we see each other one day in the ministry. So, counselor, we are at your hands: firm and resolve. Hiding a train path or making a train arrive on time is a huge opportunity engine and we are here to ensure opportunities. Now, two years ago, he approved the rollover to Renfe; now, a couple of years ago, he approved the rollover to the Generality – a couple of years ago. He lost our good faith and I'd say the illusion too. It's nobody's toilet, no government, but that didn't work. It was a trap, a virtual trap, that I don't know if it's a good word, a hologram, because it didn't pass either trains or lives, it just went through having to put its face down and be formally responsible for it. What's up, Counselor? Are you satisfied with what you were predicting? Who's the abst of this huge deception? We are in obsolescence of traces, of material, of technology. What investments has the Spanish State made, out of the hundreds of thousands of millions of euros promised? In fact, I ask if the State has fulfilled the promise – the promise. We don't ask for strange things, nor do we ask for more responsibility. Counselor, we ask for full responsibility, which ultimately passed on to Catalonia all the expenditure, the reversal and the management of the rolling stock of Catalonia. Counselor, this is the solution. Let us hope that the Socialist, Popular, and Ciutadans groups will give them full support in this claim. If these groups are the half-obstinent in achieving this defined transposition as they are with 155, we would have a lot to gain. Let's see if this time they're standing next to the government of Catalonia, next to the citizens of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.12.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, many thanks, in the first instance, Mr. Eduard Pujol, for the reference to the legitimate councillor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Josep Rull, today in prison and in a place of fame, because, effectively, therefore, he has been one of the people who has spoken most of this deception that you now describe and that I will now try to put data, figures, and also, to the extent of our possibilities, solutions. Many thanks also for the exact description of a railway environment as important to the country, such as that of Martorell, of which you are a child, or of Vilafranca, which you know perfectly, because you are not users on many occasions. We're good, huh? , that there is this view of users, because it is the one that brings, in the end, the reality, the perceptions to which is the fridge of the ciphers, that I will now try to go exhibiting. And many thanks also for the reference to Ferrocarrils, which is indeed a public company that offers a quality service, European, of which we are very proud; that there are indeed many fears that need to be improved and that need to continue to improve, that we are conscious and that we will try to improve them in the measure of our possibilities, but that, in doubt, there has been a long and a long time ago in all this rail service there on Ferrocarrils, so I can lend it. Talking about wheels is talking about public transport, it's talking about sustainable mobility and a very important piece of this sustainable mobility, which is public transport. And we consider that public transport is one of the main fishes of the Department of Territory and Sustainability, and therefore of the Government of the Generality, in the case of the Department of Territory, together with housing, of the policies of the welfare state, of the policies of equity, of social cohesion, which you yourself, therefore, mentioned. And, notwithstanding this, notwithstanding that it is a foundational piece of this welfare state, the Department of Lands and Road Sustainability's dedication to it is very, very – very – conditioned. The transposition of two years ago was – we always say it this way – incomplete and incomplete. Incomplete because we are actually missing lives, chains, stations, trains..., and incomplete, because, almost two years after – this decade that you thought – after signing up, there are still too many inconcretions and inconcretions on the part of the State – Adif, Renfe or ministries – ; in any case, therefore, this trio that you called to talk about the concept of ‘roads'. The first and the main failure is the lack of resources. And this lack of resources can also differentiate it into two areas, a double incompliment. First of all, because the inn at the top of the infrastructure that allows you to donate a service on condition, that allows you to offer a good service to the user, therefore, it led to that in the signature of this transfer a plan of investments is promised – in the infrastructure, huh? , the infrastructure that can withstand the servicei – of €4,000_million. This xifra we have donated on many occasions: 4,000_million euros, the investments needed to set up the network; an important amount. It was a practical exercise, at that time, by the Ministry of Development, Adif and Renfe: "We have to invest 4,000_millions. In major figures of this year – they are the last ones we have – their execution is 13,5_per_cent– 13,5_per_cent. So, no promises, huh? : 13,5_per_cent is very far from 50_per_cent. And another important fact: the Roller Plate. This 4 000_million Roller Plate, of which only 13,5_per_cent has been completed, was for a period from 2008 to 2015; therefore, it should have been completed. Or else, there's not so much a brutal lack, flaring from the gyra of reversal, but also the calendar in which this reversal should have been made. Three years ago, we should have made these investments, these 4,000_million. A few years after this roundtable, of these 4,000_million incomplete, saw that this was not going anywhere, we ended up working together between the Department of Lands and Sustainability, the Government of the Generality and the Ministry of Development a major exercise, huh? , a wide range of priority work, of urgency, which is given, therefore, response to this lack of investment. They're the famous ones – it's a syphre that we always donate – 306_millions. In that list, which basically worked with the Department of Territories, which presented to the Ministry of Development and which we were able to relate to work with the minister, with the silver medal, and with Adif and Renfe, in those 306 million we detailed a series, I insist, of works of improvement and expansion of rollers, infrastructures that give a good service; very concrete: 306 million. In what percentage did it take place? A 13,5_per_cent. Again, we are in much lower figures: of the 4,000, 13,5; of the 306 – I forgive –, a 12.5_per_cent. So, we haven't come up with a promise. These numbers already knew them. In any case, these 4,000 and 306 million are known, but I want you to know, Mr. Pujol, that in these 306 million there are concrete things that could actually improve people's lives, huh? Let's not rob them of time. I want to set them an example. For example, the Arc de Triomf station – we are talking about Barcelona – ; a station we have here, it is very close, a central station in Barcelona : a considerable volume of passengers, which also has intermodality because it connects with the metro, it has three lines – R1, R3 and R4. So, this Arc de Triomf station, which came out in the list of 306_millions– was one of those investments needed to donate a good service–, needs to expand the platform, needs to move from the current 160_metres to 200_metres. This way you can put trains with greater capacity, five-car trains with double composition, not just three-car trains plus three-car trains. This is very important because we are better able and, for example, in this way, the passengers of the R1 of the Maresme will not have to go unpunished – those diseases that we are now explaining for the user– ; above all it is up to them to do so, to go unpunished, in the summer. That's concrete. That's why they serve the 306 million. These Arc de Triomf works have been awarded since July 27th of last year – yes, they are awarded – but there is no work – there is no work. The latest news we have, from the last meeting of capacity – one of the series of meetings of pre-coordination with Adif and Renfe that we do periodically from the Department of Territory and Sustainability – we ask for explanations and they tell us to start briefly. But the truth is, we don't know what that means. What we do know is that this expansion of the path to two-hundred_metres requires two-months of works; as a minimum, one-months. And de_mesos means we'll have to be another summer, the coming, without the Civia being able to bear the maximum number of passengers, who are a thousand people– 997, to be more concrete. And we expect this from 2008, or from 2013 in the case of the 306_millions. We do nothing but wait and despair, not only ourselves, as responsible, but also the users, these 400,000 users, these 400,000 people who each day bet on rollers, who leave the private vehicle at home; that we also appreciate it, because it forms part of this sustainable mobility that we both claim; also for salvation, for the quality of the area of the metropolitan area of Barcelona. And, actually, you were thinking about it in your intervention, we think the rollers, or the infrastructure, because I want to go a little bit further than the rollers, they're a great cohesionator. The lack of investment by the State in infrastructure in Catalonia is a great cohesioner. I'm a self-contained iron machine, if I may. I, including, venture to say that the manifestations about the infrastructure deficit have been the result of the current magnitude of the sovereign movement. I refer, for example, to complaints about the airport, complaints about rolling stock or concreteness and complaints about the third additional provision, which I assume you know perfectly well. Therefore, yes, indeed, they are calling for real commitments, so as to give answers to these citizens. There is another cipher that has not been complemented – we are talking about investments – which is the famous tariff deficit, so that from the State's assumption it is paid to Renfe to be able to compensate for the part of the cost of the service that is not covered by the users themselves. This is also a small, in short, great challenge that we have and a great failure of this transfer, because we have been demanding from the first day that these moneys be passed on to us, to the Government of the Generality, in order to be able, effectively, therefore..., to be able to pay Renfe, in order to be able to force the service to follow suit. And this transfer, this economic transfer, did not exist, is not there, and therefore is incapable of us – we are incapacitated. So much so that we very recently – and I have been able to say on various occasions – have, therefore, the determination to reopen the rollover. Reopening does not mean perfecting it, reopening means that we will put on the table the conditions that we believe that, like the government of the Generality, we must put in front of the ministry as to investments, as to..., including coordinations, in order to be able to continue with the headlines of the rolling stock service. I hope that, with this realization and with this negotiation, we can, indeed, continue to feel the headlines, of the service, because the users deserve the best possible roll-up service. Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on the management of infrastructure]] [[300-00055/12]] The next question is about the management of infrastructures, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. I'm speaking to Congresswoman Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.14.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors... Oh, surprise! What have we just witnessed? We have just witnessed the perfect summary of your infrastructure plan in Catalonia. Of course, not many technicians, not many great experts or too much time have been needed to draw up their programme. The star measures of his council for any problem we have are: to say that Spain steals from us, to blame any problem to Madrid and to say that if his Government takes care of everything would be fantastic, everything wonderful in our lives. And, really, I say to you, with the history of snorkels, piphies and disasters that drag on everything you manage, will you really continue to insist that the solution is that? It's not hanging anymore. It's a grotesque farce. Do you not see, for example, the one connected with Aguas Ter Llobregat? Or do you think we don't see each other? It is a concession that had been awarded to last several decades, and that only five years later has already been annulled by judgment. It can cost us more than 1,000_million of our pockets for their peeps and their irresponsibility. Even Airef sees the risk that it may affect our budgetary stability. Or don't you see the ruin we've been brought into with the 9_de_metro line? Line 9 had to be finished in 2007, ten years ago, and right now line 9..., the salaries of officials and the Holy Family are fighting to see if any arrive before 2025, and we have many doubts. And the really serious thing about line 9 is the cost overrun. It had to cost 2,000_million_of_euro, which was a sufficient budget, but they already go for 6,000 – more than 4,000 –, and we will end up paying more than 16,000. Thousands of millions with which it would have been possible to end all the barracks of Catalonia, complete line 1 from Badalona to Santa Coloma, complete the tramway, make the train tram of Tarragona, and they would still have left many millions; so that they would have an idea of the magnitude. It is not Spain that steals from us, no; nor does it limit our opportunities, and it is not Spain's deception that solves anything. And there's a lot more. The Segarra-Garrigues channel. The C-17, the toll in the shadow of the C-17, which looked like a graveyard dungeon, the other day, full of yellow crosses, and you did nothing. I don't know if there are many people who know it's really a cemetery; but a cemetery of millions: more than 300_million we've already put into their rescue, or whatever they want to call it, in exchange for nothing and without asking for a single responsibility. Or Spanair, really, 230_million. Or the T-Mobility, which I don't know what's going on with it, which was a two-year project, from 2013 to 2015, and it's still there. We don't know where it is – that the day it is put into service will be obsolete – and already with a 40_per_cent surcharge. Finally, in spite of all this, do you continue to say that the solution to all our problems is that you transfer more skills to them, that you manage everything? Really? Is that what they have to offer Catalans? Is that what they have to offer us? So do we waste a councilhouse that has so many powers, so much room for action? With all you can do, is that all you can tell us? But what is happening is that you have for a long time had no project, no interest, no will, and that is that even worse, you do not want to devote your time, your effort, your concentration to solving these problems. You told us at the beginning: "We will not go in and talk about rollers or rollers without knowing that we are before a government that recognizes us as a people and respects our right to self-determination. The first is the first. Same thing the president says you've chosen. And we're not surprised either. We said it from the beginning, they are the same and it is clear that they would continue to do the same. The only thing you want is to extend the process to cover your guts and corruption; we have not talked about them before, but their shadow is above most of those projects we have talked about, the 3 percent shadow. It's not Spain that steals from us. They are interested in infrastructures, yes, but not to improve them, but to use those precisely for what Mr Pujol said: to unite the people towards their independence cause. And the bad news is that for your goal, what you need is for you to go the worse, the better, for the misfortune of all citizens, those who vote for you and those who don't. That all Catalans have difficulty paying tolls? Well, great, an opportunity to say that all the fault is Madrid. But how can they have that shame? If there is not a single autonomous community that has built so many miles of freeways of payment for its citizens, not a single autonomous community has done something similar. Is the road haulage service delayed? It's all Madrid's fault. And what have you done? They've been in charge for ten years. How much have you invested in improving trains to make people more comfortable, putting in more trains for people to stand up, to increase schedules? How much have they invested? How long are they going to go on like this? How long will they continue with this farce that leads us to nothing? Because in the meantime they don't do anything, they do the least. But you worry very little about those issues that you call non-essential. Is there any way of knowing, for example, or of being told or planned over the next five years? Or for the next three years, I'll make it easier for you. They have failed all their plans – all of them. And it's impossible to know what they're going to do. Do they plan to plan with criteria, for example, socio - economic ones? Something so revolutionary. They've given hundreds of bandages, and this is the worst they can do for infrastructure. We do not know, for example, whether they will prolong the C-32. It was announced, two advisers earlier, but the funding system proposed right now is no longer even viable. Do you have any plans for ‘ rolling stock? ' Have you included enough budget in 2019 or are you going to return it, as I also heard a few days ago that I practically proposed? Or dissuasive parking lots, those of your own plan, how many have you done? What are you waiting for? Do you not know that we have a serious pollution problem? And I don't even talk about the Tarragona tram train, because it pisses me off. They've had 20 years to plan it and they've done absolutely nothing. It could be added to the list of disasters. But how are you going to worry about all this? How are you going to tell us that you are concerned about infrastructure, about mobility, if your Government is the one that allows you to have your motorways cut for 15 hours without doing anything? You, as Territori's advisor, Territori's is, don't you have anything to say to this? What did you think? With what authority will the Government of Spain demand improvements when faced with situations like this it is unable to say anything, when is it threatened to cut roads, not let people fly, with which goods are broken in ports? Actually, it's not that I haven't said anything, it's that maybe he's said too much. "To make a council of ministers in Barcelona on 21 December is a provocation. A provocation? Oh, my God. And does it reaffirm itself right now? Those words weigh you down, Counselor, when there are people standing by, when there are people who are missing their flights, when people are worried, be afraid, have to change their plans. Stop dynamizing bridges and acknowledge that you are on a dead track, because, as long as you do not, your lack of self-criticism and inaction are harming all Catalans, it impoverishes you, those who vote for you and those who do not, who, by the way, are the majority. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.15.0	Thank you, Mrs. Bravo. Then the counselor has the word to answer the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.16.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Member of Parliament, Councillor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament..., the truth is that when you announced an inquiry into infrastructure management we didn't know very well – so generic, huh? – what I would talk about, what I would ask. I thought that, first, I'd ask for Mr. Josep Rull, for his fellow Member of Parliament today in prison and in a place of fame. I am not speaking to you about the "Legitimate Counsel for Territories and Sustainability", political press in the name of denouncing the arbitrariness of Spanish justice, I am talking about asking you about Mr. Rull. His lack of sensitivity in this topic never ceases to surprise'm – never ceases to surprise'm. [[Greetings.]] But in any case, we can't talk about infrastructure, we can't talk about managing infrastructure without talking about the context. Because you see here, it's pissed off – because it's because of us, isn't it? , for all the data I will now give you – and decontextualizes what it is possible to do, or what it is not possible to do or what it is about to do, of all rigorous analysis. And the first context we have to put on the table is – in this case, I will talk to you about data from the Department of Economics – about fiscal balances, fiscal deficit. And you will say to me: "You already talk to me about this burden of fiscal deficit. Do you know what's going on? That you don't want me to talk about it, about the tax deficit, and I will actually talk about it. Because the fiscal deficit that Catalonia has, this investment in the economic situation of the country a year ago is notorious. A last one, 2014: EUR 14,941_million, representing a 7.6_percent of GDP. These are data from the Department of Economics based on the calculation method used by the Department of Economics, to balance expenses. But there's some doubt about these data. You yourself may doubt these facts and the President of the Government of the State, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, also seemed to deny the fiscal deficit, or, in any case, said we lied about the fiscal deficit. But I will refer to the data of the same Ministry of Finance, this September, three months ago, published data. They are some other figures, because the State uses another method of calculation: that of the territorialization of the services, but the data from the Ministry of Finance are that the fiscal deficit is 9,892 million euros, which represents 5 per cent of GDP. This is a considerable xifra. I am sure you must agree with me that it is outrageous if it is compared with the one of the year immediately before, which was – given by the ministry – of 7,189 million euros. Therefore, a year later, the country's economic situation is becoming worse: a long time ago, if this deficit is overcome, a long time ago, and a long time ago. What am I saying with this? What am I saying to you, Congresswoman? That this fiscal deficit that our country is suffering offends us, that it does not allow us to face the investments that are falling, and I am not thinking only of the Department of Territory and Sustainability, of infrastructure, but of the government as a whole, of the whole country, of the equipment that we need in health, in education, in policies of social cohesion. A country that generates resources, that generates wealth enough to be able to face these investments in infrastructure and those investments in equipment but does not respond to what they correspond to by the State. In return, published and known, you can't store it. And this situation is compounded by the perverse conditions that the General Administration of the State is also submissive to us. We are talking about everything that is the limits – debt, deficit or expense – that always go against us, always go against the ability of the Government of the Generality to have good assumptions to deal with these shortcomings, which we are fully aware of. And this view of purpose to finance that I describe them, in the end, we can match it more or less, but it could remain in some way answered, it could remain responsible, if the State makes the corresponding one, if the State has the level of investment in infrastructures that our country deserves. But that's neither good nor good. The State has deserted Catalonia. A short while ago, during Mr. Eduard Pujol's inquiry into the rolling stock, which is one of the most striking, most punching examples, but more than ever, the presuppositional commitments that are paid to a decade back and that never arrive. Execution of the State's investment in infrastructure in Catalonia always gives us disgust, great disgust. The government, of course, would be satisfied if at least you did your job, if you complicated what they promised, but that's not it. The year 2016, for example, I did not go far enough, it was assumed 1,181 million euros from the State to Catalonia, the majority, 86 percent, about 1,000 million, were investments of the promotion group, of the Ministry of Development. Do you know how much he actually invested? What counts are the liquidations, knows it perfectly, does not count so much what is assumed. The one that was really spent, the liquidation, was 541 million; of the 1,000 presupposed, 541, half, 53.5 percent, only half. So we're not just in the numbers that don't come from the effort that Catalonia is making with the rest of the state, but they've gone further back a year, and at the time of truth they're going back to half. The million-dollar rain? , the rain of millions to which also refers Congressman Eduard Pujol in his previous inquiry, this promise of President Rajoy gathering entrepreneurs and making great announcements? To the xifra we give: 1,012_millions assumed, 541_millions actually spent. And they know what the worst is, that the General Administration of the State, the State, already admitted a pile of years ago this infrastructure deficit, admitted it. So clearly they saw that he even included it in the State, the famous third additional provision. The statue was brushed – in the words of Alfonso Guerra, eh? – they passed the ribot, but this was not dared to touch it, because so much was, say, put red before this infrastructure deficit, before this investment deficit in infrastructure in the State of Catalonia, that this additional third provision did not like to touch it. What does the third additional provision say? It makes it clear that the money that the State was bringing to Catalonia in terms of infrastructure had to correspond with the Catalan contribution to GDP. We calculated the sum of the debt, the debt of the State pending for these six years in which the third additional provision was to apply: €3,807_million for the period 2008-2013. The one from 2007 was paid for, huh? But between 2008 and 2013, there was not a single euro, 3,807_million euros, which precisely stemmed from the country's lack of infrastructure. I'll be there later, but the assumption of the department for the coming year is 2,024_millions. Therefore, they already see the importance of this state's investment deficit in Catalonia. We talked to them, at the first bilateral meeting of infrastructure that was eleven years after the first meeting, about how to disburse this historical debt, but so far we don't agree with the method to be able to do so, that's what matters. What matters is that, meanwhile, between fiscal deficit and infrastructure investment deficit, the country loses competitiveness. Let's not just think about rollers, we've already detailed it before, let's think about the B-40; the connection of Castellbisbal; in the Variant of Vallirana, probably one of the reels with a major memory of the world's slow execution; let's think about the Mediterranean Corridor, which we no longer know how to ask, the coordinator Iveta Radičová dilluns explained it. Certainly, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the presence of some of you at the strategic table on the Mediterranean Corridor that we celebrated this day. I insist, the coordinator did not know how to explain the slowness in the execution of these state-dependent infrastructures that make us lose competitiveness. And the generality? The Generalitat does what it can with the resources at its disposal. I've given them the big xifra, these 2,000_million assumptions planned for the year 2019, another thing is that the negotiation, therefore, ends up giving us this xifra. But from these 2,000_millions, the 1st generation, on the first day of the year – on the first day of the year – you know that – because we have explained it on other occasions – 700_millions will disappear for different payments: tolls in the shade, subsidies to explicit tolls, German methods or concessions. It is 700_million that in most cases did not condition the present government, we did not condition ourselves, but we wanted to inherit them from previous governments. Counselor Lluís Recoder spoke of a motxilla that had to be loaded and that leads us to have the presupposition in some cases until 2041 with these mechanisms, I insist, of different payment or of tolls in the shade. Therefore, these are our conditionings. When you claim that the pending investments are executed quickly, you cannot, as you do, obviate the context of fiscal deficit, lack of investment of the State in infrastructure and conditions in the same premise of the Generality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, for the reply, once again has the word Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.18.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor, I remind you of one thing that is very simple: the Government of Spain is its partners, not ours. So, when they negotiate with them, instead of asking for impunity for politicians who skip the laws or asking for pressure from judges who have to apply them, I recommend that you prioritize other matters, from those who complain, for example. In any case, I also remind you that this is an inquiry into infrastructures, not about fiscal deficits, which is what it seemed. And I remind you of the questions: Is there any way to know what they are going to do in the next five years? Do they have any planning with criteria, for example, socio - economic ones? Are they going to build – I name him a work of his, which not one of those he has named was a work of his – in the end the extension of the C-32? How do you plan to finance it if the way you had planned it is no longer in time to implement it? Or line 9_de_metro: it had a term of four years – four – what percentage of work do you have left and how long will it take to finish? Dissuasive parking – I've already told you –, the tram train. On the third additional provision, they did not touch it but interpreted it. And you know it perfectly well, I don't think it's me who has to explain to you that it doesn't imply any obligation. And as for the 700_million deferred payments, they speak of them as if they had fallen from heaven, as when they speak of 155. Something will have been done to ensure that we have those 700_million deferred payments that so much condition this government's budget. Mr. Eduard Pujol, although I know it is not appropriate, that it is not his turn to ask him, I thank him that at least this time he has named high speed and has named Mercè Sala's performances as correct performances. And since they have put many examples of disastrous cases, I will also recognize that the Vallés line is a wonder, I have no problem with saying it, but I will also give you some examples of other lines of FGC that are not at that level. The other day I had to go and see my colleagues from Masquefa and from Plaza España to Masquefa, which are forty_kilometres, it takes one_hour and ten or fifteen_minutes, that's what it takes. When you get there there is no lower step to cross between lanes, you have to cross over the lanes, and there is no sign that tells you which way the train goes. But it's just that, on the way back, when I came home to eat at one o'clock, I lost the train by the hair, and you know how long it takes me to spend the next one? Shall I tell you? One_hour, one_hour of frequency they have in that line. There are things that do good, of course, but not all of them, and that is one thing they can work on, that they can improve on. But they can also improve a lot in the rolling stock, because not all the fault is Madrid. We know they love to throw the, even lie when they have to blame them to Madrid. You know that this ad angers me in particular, in which they say that the incidences of which Adif is guilty are twice the real figure and this is paid with the money of all of us. They lie, they don't mind lying to use the discontent of the population to attract them to their independence cause. Go over and start working, concentrate on what citizens really need, solve our problems, act, forget about "the worst, the best, because what we need is the best, the best. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.19.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, the counsel's reply. The word has Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.20.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman, councillors, ladies and gentlemen, how can I really support this speech? How can I support the speech that I have given about the fiscal deficit and the state's investment deficit in Catalonia, which is the basis on which we can then build a premise on which to deal with our part of the list? How can we obviate everything I have explained to him and speak as if we are in an unreal, idyllic world, in which, ultimately, we have no conditioning? Miri, I aspire to convince you. I aspire, indeed, Mrs. Marina Bravo, to convince her. I do not aspire to what you are doing independentist, that this is already a gift for the lost, but I aspire to convince you because of your group's defense here, the Parliament of Catalonia, or the Congress of the Deputies in Madrid, therefore, what are the needs of the country in infrastructures and in investments of the State; that they help us, here or in Madrid, to actually this flagrant, brutal deficit of the State's investments in Catalonia, therefore, it is timetables, it is supposed, it is carried out promptly, not so far. And I also hope to convince her because she helps us to make sure that, from the start, this fiscal deficit is reduced, is significantly reduced, so that we can have the right assumptions to deal with what is our share of responsibility, which we have, and much. Because, effectively, we have the list of commitments, we have it related, we have it perfectly studied. We have the list of rolling stock, which we would like to be executed immediately. We also have which lanes are to be improved, which variants we have of iron, which extensions of express bus lines – now we call BRCAT – we have of iron, which bicycle lanes we also have to execute to have a more sustainable mobility, which railway extensions we will execute. You asked if there was a plan. Well, of course it is. I'm surprised I didn't know him. You know that at the ATM, in the Barcelona region mark, which is a program and is managed from the ATM, the Pla director of infrastructure is periodically developed. What do you think it is, the director of infrastructure, if not an orderly relationship for the socio-economic return of the infrastructure that our country needs to have the best public transport possible? What do you think it is? Said: "Programin according to criteria. What do you think it is, the director of infrastructure, in which the works with the most socio-economic return appear in the first place, such as the connection between the lane and the line of the Vallès, such as line 9, such as the joining of the tram systems to the east and west of the city of Barcelona? This is actually, therefore, listing investments in infrastructure with socioeconomic return. And, therefore, when you ask me: "What do you think you are doing? , to the documents of which you can enjoy and consult me. This list is clear to us. We want to execute it with the best possible assumptions, and with assumptions that we now have between the part that we need to operate in an orderly way, the part that we have to use for these already executed infrastructure payments, which we have to deal with with these moneys..., scarce, huh? , in the end there are 190_million euros; 190_million euros for projects and works– I am not talking about maintenance, I am talking about projects and works–, therefore, in order to be able to execute this priority list, as it cannot otherwise be. And that's our challenge, and that's the responsibility that's coming to us. Let's start these investments, let's start this modernizing agenda, in which, for example, the vinyeta will transform the way we hear how to move, as well as the resources that we can devote to public transport or the environmentalization of waves, like T-Mobility. That T-Mobility is not a three-in-a-quarter project, it's a concept that goes much further, it's a paradigm shift from the tariff system to going to the kilometre tariff system and by recurrence, that it's not just a contactless target as you might think. That's what we'll have on 2021, I said it and I said it again. And from ATLL, if I may, that you have also not spoken, I have requested or am about to request a summons to be able to explain the exact point in which we are. It makes me feel like you, say, with the Titanic sinking and touching the violin, ask me for the score. I aspire to jump out of the Titanic and go to a safe ship that allows us to continue with the best country possible, with more and better opportunities for its people. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on the adoption of schools]] [[300-00056/12]] The next question is about the adaptation to the schools, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The question was raised by Mrs Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.22.0	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Counselor, look, as I have always been a teacher, because I have been left with the mania of evaluating, and I have created an evaluation grid to evaluate how the Agenda 2000 that Jordi Pujol devised in the 1990s has been implemented, and the truth is that the result has been amazing. This 2000 Programme had a main objective, as far as education is concerned, which was to promote the Catalan national feeling of teachers, parents and students, and for this it carries out a number of activities, which are what I have evaluated to see whether they have managed to implement them or not. Let us start with the first activity: "Development of a plan for continuing training and retraining of teachers that takes into account national interests. Target achieved. They do not train teachers to know how to treat students with autistic spectrum disorder, for example; they do not train teachers to know how to detect and work cases of school harassment, but, listen, for the formation of the national spirit, there, we do not lack resources. Second activity: « Edit and use the textbooks on history, geography, art, literature, economy, etc., of Catalonia and the Catalan Countries. To establish agreements with publishers for their production and dissemination, with subsidies, if necessary. Target achieved. And here we have one of the keys: manipulation of text books with a grant hit. Look, subsidies are one of the bases of nationalism, subsidies to your friends. And so we are: there is no money to get rid of the barracks, but there is money for their political bars. There is no money for education from zero to three years; now, to subsidize the editorial friends to manipulate their textbooks, for that, there are always resources. But it is not only in Catalonia, also in the Valencian Community and in the Balearic Islands, although from Citizens we have asked them to stop giving our money to other autonomous communities and even to other countries and to spend that money that they give to private entities of the Valencian Community, of the Balearic Islands and of France to education, which we miss well. Third activity: "Caltanization of educational programmes. Pre-analysis and approval of content by responsible and trusted people. He does not speak of great experts in education: « of responsible and trustworthy people, once again the friends. And not to try to have the best level of education, no, no, no: to catalanize students. What an obsession, indeed! Leave the students alone and be concerned that they have the best education possible. Let's see the fourth activity, which you especially like, Mr Bargalló, that I know: "Reorganise the body of inspectors in a way and way that they monitor the correct compliance with the regulations on the catalanization of teaching. Closely monitor the choice of this staff. Achieved: 80_percent of the inspectors fingered, who, I have no doubt at all, have closely monitored the choice of such staff. But now you don't have enough with that, now you want to have your own body of inspectors, with the invaluable help of the PP and the PSOE, who refuse to provide resources to the High Inspection of the State, which is the one that should be watching those inspectors that you have fingered, 80_per_cent. And, well, we have the fifth activity: "To focus on parenting associations by providing people and leaders with nationalist criteria. Target achieved. There are many AMPAs, led by the FAPAC, defending the right to decide, i.e. to decide to separate us from the rest of Spain instead of worrying that schools work well for their children, and even having fluid communication with the CDRs to occupy schools for a whole weekend to get an illegal referendum, putting the kids through. They would have to face shame: use children to get an illegal referendum! But, well, if we have any doubt about the absolute lack of neutrality of those responsible for education in Catalonia, let's see the list of defendants and convicts. Irene Rigau, former Education Advisor: convicted of disobedience and embezzlement of public funds. Another ex-counsellor, Clara Ponsatí: accused of the same crimes and escaped justice. Anna Simó, President of the School Board: accused of disobedience. And Josep Maria Jové, president of the Education Commission of this Parliament : accused of disobedience and embezzlement of public funds. But, let's see, with these leaders at the head of education in Catalonia, does anyone believe that there will be even the slightest intention of neutrality? But if they have... [[applause]] A glue of defendants and convicts! And to you, Mr. Counsellor, in your first appearance I said: "Mr. Counsellor, do you undertake not to end up accused of jumping the laws as your companions? And he didn't commit. I hope that now, when I get out here, I'll be able to compromise if you're not gonna end up imputed like the other counselors for jumping over the laws. Hey, I promise not to end up accused of skipping my laws. Are you committed to ensuring that the Catalan school is going to be neutral and that you are going to devote yourself solely and exclusively to education and not to jumping over the laws? I hope you'll be able to compromise yourself when you come out to this rostrum. On the other hand, in September Societat Civil Catalana and Assembly for a Bilingual School presented a report of more than three hundred pages on indoctrination in Catalonia, with all kinds of evidence, and with this report there has been one very curious thing, that is that everyone shows that it does not exist, and sees that it is difficult, because it is voluminous, eh? It has more than three hundred pages. Hey, there's no such thing, no one's talking about him. However, when the AMES union drew up its report on indoctrination, which was a much more modest thing, of just fifty pages, hours and hours in the public and concerted media. They pulled out all their spokespersons, Empar Moliner, Toni Soler... there to destroy the report. But from this one, it's not a word. But the most clamorous silence is that of the counselor. Counselor, there is a report of more than three hundred pages on indoctrination, and you have nothing to say? Does it not matter to you whether or not there is indoctrination in Catalonia? Why have you not come out to deny these cases one by one? You don't mind? I do not know, it seems to me that the Councillor would have to give an answer to this report which has come out of the educational community, which has been drawn up by Catalan teachers and families, teachers and Catalan families who have also received the support of the Ombudsman, who has already told you that there has to be neutrality in schools. What did you reply to the Ombudsman, Mr Bargalló? What steps will be taken to ensure that there are no yellow ties in schools, no courtyards called One October, no Som Escola posters, no calls for strikes? Because, Mr. Bargalló, you always say that the only most important thing about school is teachers. And I mean, you talk about the teachers, you talk about the school itself, but you don't talk about the students. He forgets the most important thing of all, which are the students. And he also forgets about families, and that's why there's discomfort in the educational community, and that's why this report came out of the educational community. A report that these teachers and that these families have done by taking time away from where they don't have it, by taking time off. Because here there are no paniaguados as in their political chiringuitos, here what we have are teachers and families concerned about education. You have to give an answer to those teachers and those families. It has to give an answer to the educational community. All these teachers and all these families know that they can count on Citizens, because Citizens have always been there, unlike the PP and the PSOE, who have dedicated themselves to pie always with nationalists. And, therefore, Jordi Pujol's Agenda 2000 has been allowed to be implemented, because, in order to implement this program, it has not been necessary for Convergence to be in power, all those who have ruled have made it their own, because the truth is that we have always had nationalist advisers, in addition to imputed and condemned advisers – we have always had nationalist advisers. Because the PSC, when it has ruled, has left Education in the hands of Republican Left, which, listen, what a good idea to leave education in the hands of Republican Left, and when they put a counselor, they end up being Republican Left. I mean, in Catalonia, we've only met nationalist advisors. But now it is Citizens, which is the party that won the elections, to tell you very clearly that we will always be next to the families and teachers who are fighting for a better education, because this implementation of Jordi Pujol's Program 2000, which has allowed the PP and the PSOE, has made the nationalists believe that the school is theirs! They say: "The school will always be ours. And they say, "The school is not touched. No, here is Citizens, which is the party that has won the elections, to tell you very clearly that the school is not yours, that the school is everyone's, that the school is the educational community, also the educational community that has made this report on indoctrination. And that there will be Citizens there to defend that, in Catalonia, there really is a model of success, but a model of educational success, not a model of success of nationalist implementation, which is what you have achieved. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.23.0	Counselor responds. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.24.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's say, let's go back to being, let's go back to being, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to Heraclit said it, over water, that it's always the same; and so-so, and another time. Mrs. Sierra, this document [[the counselor shows a document to the chamber]] , which is so objective, which is called Nationalist Instrumentalization of the educational system in Catalonia: the case of October 1, and which is signed by two entities, one of which is called Bilingual School, and the other is called Catalan Civil Society, which are two entities that have a very concrete ideology, eh? , the same – the same; no problem, eh? But, I mean, there are two entities that have a very concrete ideology–, that... so let's just say that, to qualify this study as objective, as entry, is not objective– to qualify it as objective–, because it is not. I looked at it, I studied it, because you held it – and I deeply appreciate it – nice to give it to me, because these entities had not sent it to the department. He was sent to the press and the Ombudsman, but not to the department. So now that I've had it, I've looked at it. I was willing to talk about cases. We are well aware that we are not talking about it, about cases they pose here, because here, for example, there is again that thing, which has already been mentioned by you, that famous wall in which there is a painted mural, and that here you say that it is from an institute, and it is a mural from the track of athletics in front of the institute. Or here are some pictures of some stelades in a school that's been locked up for years, and that's not school. I don't know what it is, because it's not the Education Department. Or here are the photos of some of Nadal's first in the street, out of school hours and reading. Or here... here's a lot of things that don't correspond to reality, or they don't correspond to the education system. But I already told you, the last time we were talking about this, that it was the commission: 5,465 educational centres in Catalonia, 110,000 teaching staff, technical or directly teaching, directly or indirectly from the Department of Education. I'll explain three cases, because you understand what the reality of school is and what the Education Department has to do. A case. Two days ago they let me know, through social networks, that in an institute, a teacher, in a class, he said that he is against linguistic immersion and that he believes that all the teaching should be done in the castle. And they say to me: "What does the Department of Education intend to do with a teacher who is against current educational legislation in Catalonia? And I asked the person who said to me, "Is this teacher allowed to speak to the student? Did this professor say that his opinion is the required answer in an examination, in a mandatory test of the subject? And he says to me: "No, no, the teacher has let the student speak and has not said that his opinion is a forced answer. So the Department of Education has nothing to say, that a teacher thinks that and thinks that, and says that to the classroom; it would have to say if you prevented his students from thinking, it would have to say if you forced that opinion to be the answer. Fa..., when the People's Party of Catalonia held its assembly and was chosen the deputy Fernández as president of the People's Party of Catalonia, on an official Facebook of a private, concerted school, that week's head came out joy – on the official Facebook of the concerted school – for the election of Mr. Fernández and support for the People's Party – on the official Facebook. Some said, when the school's direction came into contact with us, he told us that there was a mistake of the person who owed the school's social networks, who is a member of the People's Party – all the right he has – and that he had confided and put his personal opinion on the school's Facebook, that the school had already withdrawn it from Facebook and that he told me that he felt very much about it, because obviously the school did not advertise a political party. We perfectly understood what this school explained to us. We didn't start a procedure for using a school channel to advertise a political party, because we heard it was a mistake – because we heard it was a mistake. This past week, a mother told me that, to her child, who is diagnosed with a disease, the teacher was not applying the educational protocol of that disease, because the teacher felt that it was not good that the rest of the companies knew that the student had that disease. This is the only case, of which I have told you, in which we will act. This is the only case I have mentioned, not the case of the teacher who is against linguistic immersion, not the case of Facebook, who, erroneously, publishes propaganda from a political party, but this; we will act on it. And this is what I asked, the only case, to the mother, whose school is concerned and whose teacher is concerned, because the student has the right that, if he is diagnosed, the educational protocol applies to him, and the teacher does not have the right to comment on whether this is against or in favour of the student, because the educational protocol is obligatory compliment. That's what the Education Department has to do. You tell me about Mr. Jordi Pujol's Agenda 2000, which was a political party program, suspended, because I didn't read it to me. I don't know what he thought, Mr. Pujol, the year 2000, in education, or what was on his election program. The year 2000 I didn't vote for Mr Pujol. In fact, I never voted for him, nor when he was a Member of Parliament I voted as President of the Generality; nor when he was a Member of Parliament I ever voted as President of the Generality. So, what Mr. Jordi Pujol said, I respect, but I don't think I will. And, besides, when, you know, Mrs. Sierra, we are no longer at the time of the assessment plants, we are at the time of the headings – we are at the time of the headings. And some of the concerts you told me, let's subsidize editorials for text books... The Education Department, let's subsidize editorials for text books? And, besides, you know perfectly well that, text books, the Education Department doesn't validate them. When we are accused by some group of Members of the European Parliament of such discrimination on grounds of gender or of such discrimination does not act conveniently in explanations of minorities, we look at it. If that's what you're saying, we send a communication to the editorial saying: "That's what you're saying. But we can't intervene, because we're not textbook censors – we're not textbook censors. We don't know. When someone officially addresses us and presents a complaint, we go to the editorial and comment on it. And if the denunciation tempts against the law, the jutjat. If the complaint is ideological, there is freedom of the centers and the editorial – there is freedom of the centers and the editorial. History is history. The readings of the story are very diverse. At last, from Marxism, they have different readings; or, from fascism, they have different readings. And, from the Democrats, we have very diverse readings, from history, because a different reading is to prioritize this fact or the other fact, at the same time; to give more space to this position or the other position. We're not going to censor this. No censors. We're not, we're not, we're not, we're not. And one thing I have always insisted on and repeated, and every time I speak in this Parliament I have done it: the object and subject of education is the student. That's what we agree on. I have always said: the object and subject of education is the student. And I've said it all the time. If in a decision that favors the student, the unions don't agree..., the decision that favors the student. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] For the answer, you have the word, again, the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.26.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I started reading the report and I'm going to download it from the internet, I didn't need to get carried away. Then I met him, but I already had him. I mean, it's very easy. There was an address. I think, as a counselor, if there's a report of more than two-hundred pages on indoctrination, and they give you the link, it's due down. It's as easy as that. Then there are more than five hundred cases. You haven't commented on it. I don't know if two or three. So good I can deny them one by one. That's what I asked of him from the beginning. That you deny them? Fantastic. Actually, so much good I can deny one by one. I'll be very happy. But the case is that this came out in September and until now you didn't say a word about it. And then, this, he talked about three anecdotes, I think. For me, a case of indoctrination, a sun, that's a lot. But I did not talk to him about a sequence of anecdotes; I spoke to him about a plan, which was certainly not an electoral programme, it is a plan, the Agenda 2000, which, I have already said, does not mean that there is Convergence in power to implement it. It's that they have implemented it in a row, it's that each of the activities I've said have been implemented. And it is clear that there have been subsidies to publishers, not only Catalans, also from the Valencian Community and the Balearic Islands; if it is that Ciutadans we have asked that they stop giving these subsidies, and, certainly, Republican Left and Convergence, or as they say this week, they voted against them, because they want to continue giving them. And in the previous legislature, when I presented the bill for free text books, do you know what the Republican Left MP told me? "No, man, no, if the books are free, maybe the Catalan editorials will be finished, and then what books they will bring, then we won't be able to control them. This is in the diary of sessions of the previous legislature. You don't make this face, Mr Aragonès, look at the session paper and you'll see how the Republican Left MP said what I just said. Of course they intend to control the editorials. I insist, I look at the session diary. Anyway... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] "Oh, my mother, no, look at the session log and look at it, you will see how true I am. Anyway, counselor, I've seen you read and post-it to the report that I brought you weeks ago, accompanied by my companion, Mrs. Marina Bravo. It's about time you told me something, because it's because he didn't answer me or the letter I attached to him, that maybe you're more of a Teaching counselor than you are of Education, because you didn't answer my visit; but, well... Now, I'm going to give you a follow-up of questions that have seemed very worrying to us – as I've already seen that the report has been read; that it was given by other people – and you answer me yes or no. According to this report, the Institutes' directorates in the Maresme and the Eastern Valley issued a manifesto against the State Security Forces and Cossessos. Is that right? Yes or no? According to these reports, different AMPAs have had a fluid communication with the CDRs so as to occupy the schools and be able to make an illegal reference. Is that right? Yes or no? Did the AMPAs work together to be able to occupy the schools to make an illegal reference? Yes or no? According to this report, there are also many Catalan texts that present difficult changes in reality and lack scientific and terminological rigour; for example, there are books that speak of the Catalan-Aragonese Crown, there are books that speak of the Kingdom of Catalonia-Aragó. Is that right? Yes or no? Is there any text books in Catalonia that present Catalonia as if it were a country, as if it were a nation at the same level as, for example, England, France or Germany? Is that right? Yes or no? I, according to this report, in some centers there is party symbolism. For example, there is a duck that is said to be 1 October. Is that right? Yes or no? Are there Som School signs in the schools? Yes or no? Yeah, it looks pretty good, all right. To the Ombudsman, I think it doesn't look so good. Well, in any case, one of his obligations as a counselor – the Ombudsman has already said; he has not told me what he has answered to the Ombudsman – is to guarantee the neutrality of schools. And another of his obligations is to give answers to the demands made by the educational community. Because, I insist, this book has been made by teachers and families, teachers of secondary schools and teachers of the Autonomous University of Barcelona. They're the educational community, you have to give them an answer. You have to get old because the Catalan school is a school of all and for all. I'd love for you to come to history to be a counselor who's aged for the neutrality of the school and not a counselor who's been the third counselor charged to skip the laws in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.27.0	There's the word, again, the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.28.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't answered the Ombudsman yet, because I'm in terms of it. I was about to return the letter to her, because, as a demonstration of the high level of knowledge the Ombudsman has of the Catalan educational reality, the letter was addressed to the ‘Adviser of Education', who has already said that the gender of the head of the department is masculine and non-female. I suspected that perhaps the Ombudsman tended to use cuparian language – with forgiveness – but then they said no, that surely the Ombudsman did not use cuparian language. So, let's just say, what can we expect from who, six months later, hasn't learned of the changes in the Department of Education in Catalonia yet? I'll answer it the same, because, let's face it, it's our obligation. When you answer him, I'll give him a copy. Mrs. Sierra, I know we've already made contact with you to see one day or another, or we should have made contact or we should have made contact. Listen, I'll tell you what. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, it's the same. I'll tell you something from here, which is a parliamentary forum: the day you want and we go well on the agenda, a group of you and the department meet and look at it on a case-by-case basis – and we look at it on a case-by-case basis – and we discuss it on a case-by-case basis. There are objective cases and cases that are a matter of debate. Why, for example, do you say to me: "Is it true that the directors of the Maresme did...? Yes, yes, the directors of the Maresme made a document that said: "Only from freedom and respect for people and ideas is it possible to educate our children and young people, so that they are genuine citizens in solidarity, respectful and committed to others. Absolutely in agreement with those words of the Maresme directors – absolutely in agreement with those words of the Maresme directors. It says to me: « It is that AMPAs... AMPAs are entities that have nothing to do with the Administration. Do you know at this point that we have the department and FAPAC? It's not a subsidiary debate... no, no, it's a tough debate, because FAPAC, representing AMPAs, is a free entity of free entities. I can't go to the AMP to tell him what to think or what to do, this would be administration interventionism to private entities; we can't do that, and we don't want to do that and we won't do that. More things he said to me... but, I insist, the day we wake up, we look at this document on a case-by-case basis. We've been looking at it just in case and you've been looking at it, too, and we're comparing it... well, I proposed it, huh? The inspector's body he told me before. When we propose to do a thing of inspectors, we are giving you, let's say, the conformity of which is the way that inspectors are not named for a procedure that is not objective. The way to get a fully objective inspector's thing, and no one can discuss it, is to oppose it; that's why we're proposing a inspector's thing. And he says to me: "Propose a body of inspectors to continue naming it. No, no, We propose a inspector's thing to stop naming it; I think it's obvious; it's obvious, I mean, that's obvious. Then you can discuss – and we will already discuss – whether the topic is correct or not, but proposing a team of inspectors means proposing a professional and objective selection procedure. More. I'm telling you, it's school. We School is formed by legal entities – it is formed by legal entities. A cartel of legal entities can be found anywhere, it's a cartel of legal entities. They're not separatist commands, are they? Som School are legal entities, huh? And they're in the records and all that. So I'm going back to say... I'm going back to say it and I've said it a lot of times. You say, "Will we make sure the Catalan school is neutral? We will ensure that the Catalan school does not indoctrinate, because if I play neutral, then you use that concept of neutral, saying that there is nothing, that no one thinks and that no one... No, no. We will ensure that the Catalan school in the Adoctrini, as in the Adoctrin. I, if there is a malfunction in the 5,465 centres, we will act – if there is one. But there are 5,465 excellent cases of daily practice, good school, good teacher. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the social return of the bank bailout]] [[300-00057/12]] The next question is about the social return of the bank rescue; formulated for the Parliamentary Group Republic. The honourable Member Eva Baró explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.30.0	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there was once a state, the Spanish, that between 2009 and 2011 had to rescue a bank, the Spanish, in front of the escalate of a real estate cylinder that the same bank had been feeding. According to the Banc d'Espanya, the rescue went up for over 75,000_million euros, of which more than 50,000 came directly from the Spanish state's arks, that is, from the butxaca of the city that we all represent. Because we have an idea of the magnitude of everything folded, the last assumption approved for the Generality is around 25,000_million euros; therefore, we have 75,000, 50,000, 25,000. The bank bailout was three times the total presumption of the Generality. The process of healing also involved the creation of a painful bench, known as Sareb's acronyms. Sareb is a public-private entity. Certainly, it is formed by FROB, but it is also formed by some of the national banks rescued – that already have crime – foreign banks, insurance companies, energy, etc. Sareb is accountable to the troika and also to the Spanish State, which is not the owner. The company acquired from the banks a portfolio of toxic assets valued at more than €56,000_million and had, at the time of its creation, more than 76,000"lives– 76,000"lives– mostly unemployed, to market. In order to put back into context the magnitude of all folds, this figure is a quantity similar to that of the official protection habitats completed between 2000 and 2015, it is also seven times higher than the current protected, social and affordable lloger park in Barcelona, and roughly equivalent to the protected housing soil reserves throughout the metropolitan area. Sareb was born to market all these acts within fifteen years, thus contributing to the discharge of the debt of the State. Therefore, it acts de facto as semi-public real estate, a mission in which it is not coming out and is not particularly successful, if we take into account two circumstances. First circumstance: that this November the same Banc d'Espanya xifrava with 42,000_million euros the total irrecoverable money of the bank rescue. And according to the circumstances: if we compare Sareb with the results obtained for other painful banks, created in Ireland in 2009, or in Germany in 2010, precisely with the same purpose, we will see – as a report from the European Commission of 2016, which in some way analyses this type of organisation – that highlights the much lower capacity of Sareb to reduce the portfolio of toxic assets compared to its analytics in Ireland and Germany; says for lack of efficiency. That is to say, while the housing emergence has made and is making strides in the lives of many families and many people, the Sareb has a huge park of habitats that seems to be standing and standing, a park of "livings that would not be used either to discharge the debt or to give response to the social function that the habitation must have. The sum of the summum of the summum of the absurd: neither benefit nor let no one benefit. It is also growing and obviously difficult to access the housing that is being affected every time more families, the Sareb and, therefore, its co-owner, the Spanish State, have kept completely to the margin, aliens– this does not go with them– until the entity has no mandate or formal commitment to the citizenry. Just as, at the time, the government managed to give up the use of some six-hundred habitats to the social housing base; it has been the only gesticulation made for the entire length of all these years. So, from the Republic Group, we denounce that the Sareb, the financial entities rescued and, in later term, the Spanish State have a pending debt and a valid debt with the citizenry – they have –; a civic and ethical debt to guarantee a social return of a bank rescue that was of enormous magnitude, which was totally free, because there was no provision for any type of counterpart, any type of counterpart and no type of social return. In fact, these past years, there have been many views and occasions when this injustice and this hardship have been denounced. The Synod of Greuges, without going further, has proposed on various occasions that 30_percent of the habitats of the Sareb is cedissin to create a social logger habitatation foundation, which would have involved an initial endowment of between 15,000 and 17,000 habitats– between 15,000 and 17,000 habitats–, much over those testimonials 600 habitats that they mentioned for a while. In Parliament, we have also spoken on various occasions in this sense, and I will mention only the first of the motions, on the 66th of 2013, which, at Esquerra Republicana's proposal, called for the creation of this social foundation of housing from the provision of housing from the park of unoccupied buildings of the financial entities, the Sareb, etcetera. The Third Sector Table has also made, in the past years, the same claim, and has found, moreover, the difficulty of competing in the storm and retracting for lack of funding. The storm and retraction would be a preferred right to purchase or acquire transmissions from mortgage execution. They explain that they have only been able to acquire twenty-three of the 5,573 girls' transmissions until the end of July 2017, which they could have accessed. And they may ask: "What are we doing on this subject now? Why are we laying it on the table, a little more? So, there's a lot of motivating, but I'll tell you just one. And it is that, at these times, the bank, pressed by the regulations of the European Central Bank, is in a hurry – in a hurry – ; is in a hurry to sell a significant part of its housing stock to large inversion funds ; inversion funds that, later, will truncate these wallets, sell the housings or offer them in logger to speculate and to draw 'in a great profit. And, according to the Catalan Institute of Finance, the law in force allows before this sale the public administration to exercise, must be able to exercise, can exercise, exercise, its right of tanteig and retract and acquire them, to acquire them then to offer them to the entities of the third sector or to the social promoters. That is to say, these operations that are taking place now and that are very tight could represent a unique opportunity to ensure part of this return that has so far been non-existent, and that would significantly increase the social logger park. In other countries, a similar strategy was chosen: to create a bad bank that joins and markets all the toxins to help the State discharge the debt. But in these other countries the states of return have been able to ensure a social return to the effort made by the citizenry. And I will mention just one example, the NAMA, the Irish dolent bank, which in seven years has been able to finance two thousand social habitats, has been able to complete 2,500 more and is marked as the objective of financing up to twenty thousand more habitats by 2020, among other initiatives. It is to say that demanding the social return of the bank rescue is not a wishful one, it is not a toast to the sun and it is not a good word, only; it is an inescapable responsibility on the part of all of us, and, moreover, it is a perfectly viable claim, as evidenced by what I have just explained to them. It seems to us that with political will there should be ways to correct or, if not, to deal with this injustice and this hardship. For example, ensuring that associations and social entities have sufficient resources, through all ICO credits, to exercise this right of choice and effectively withdraw for the acquisition of housing that may be dedicated to the social park. Or, for example, regulating the acquisition or, if not, the temporary cessation of this habitation that is standing there, the death of physics – if I may – that is currently in the hands of the Sareb or the financial entities rescued so that the public authorities can allocate it to social logger or, if not, housing emergence. And there could be many more solutions and many more measures. For us housing is synonymous with social justice. From the Republic Group we share the will of the Generalitat de fer politiques économiques that de facto allow us to address the issue of housing as a pillar more of the welfare state, at the same level as education, at the same level as pensions or sanitation. And, despite the difficulties, we are aware that the Generality and, in particular, the Vice-President of the Economy and the Department of Territories have made and are making considerable efforts in this sense through creative economic solutions. That is why it seems to us to demand that the Spanish State, one of the main ones responsible for this rescue, show the same commitment, the same concern and the same sensitivity that the same Generality has already shown and that other states have demonstrated at the time of ensuring the social return of the correspondents of the bank rescues that have occurred. For all that, Mr Vice-President, we would like to know who the main actions of the Government of the Generality have been to promote the exercise of the right of aunt and retraction, what limits and what difficulties have been encountered and, above all, what changes or serious measures are needed by the Spanish State to ensure this social return, which is more necessary than ever. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by the Vice President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.32.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He will advise, advise, deputies and deputies, Mrs Baró, allow me to begin this answer by making a little the itinerary of the banking crisis, related to the real estate crisis, which has carried with one of its results, so for one band, the increase of the difficulties in maintaining the housing of many families, and, for another, the existence of this stock of empty housing, first in hands of the funded entities, after in hands of the Sareb – some of them – and, finally, in hands of reversal. Sometimes it is said that neither Spain nor Catalonia has ever had public intervention in housing, and we believe that this is not the case. In fact, there has been a policy of housing the most intense and persistent in Europe. The problem may be in the direction of this public housing policy, aimed at a housing in ownership, mediating the construction of official housing for sale and its subsequent protection, then declassification as a protected housing and with generous tax reliefs to access the housing in ownership, as a consequence of a deterioration in the IRPF by acquisition of habitual housing. While this was the direction, which, obviously, has involved a whole host of public resources in a direct form of subsidy or in the form of tax benefits, in other countries around us it was betting on the social housing of loguer. This policy's feuds go back and forth in time. In fact, the franchise said that it did not want a country of proletarians but of landlords, and, in fact, this idea was going to keep with the second Bourbon restoration. In fact, in Spain, and also in Catalonia, the percentage of habitats owned by the user – so, you are not the living and not the lodger – is the highest in the eurozone. We find the market of the lloger, consequently, therefore, with a crisis of demand – demand not covered – and, above all, of social housing of lloger. It is very important to have this historical evolution present, because the habitating estoc exist in one territory is not long ago nor is it consumed in four days. And if we want to catch up, as is the will of this government, and also of the previous governments, this trend, so we will not do it in four days, but it will persist in time. In fact, this Parliament has regulated in the matter of housing: ugly reference to aunty and retraction. The aunt and retraction were introduced for the Housing Law of 2007 circumscribed in those areas where there was an accredited demand for housing and which had to be articulated through the Territorial Sectoral Housing Plan. Later, 2009 is created the Agency of the Habitat of Catalonia to have a quick intervention instrument. And I believe that, by making a valuation in perspective, this instrument has been useful. Obviously, what we need is to enhance it much more, and then I will focus on some of the measures that this government, in a cross-cutting way, is allowing the Agency of the Habitat of Catalonia, so that it can have more instruments to do its job. The Ofideute, created in the framework of the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia, has been a gateway of many families who had problems in maintaining their habitat because of lack of economic resources, so to be able to find solutions that avoids the denunciation and accumulates a debt for the habitatation and accumulation of debt by the families. We had, therefore, a model centered on access to the property through mortgage guarantee and also a credit bubble that inflated the prices. And in this Parliament it has been discussed many times, and, in fact, as The Ecomomist magazine used to say, right? The party's over, the party's over. With the beginning of the economic crisis, this party, as the honourable Member rightly said, we have not been able to bear all the costs: many projects of life have been carried out before and the citizens who are in a situation of greater economic vulnerability to live authentic distressing situations have been prevented. If we make a quick analysis, the gene is very simple. An excess of foreign credit: At the end of the euro, the risk of the country is reduced, the types of interest are significantly reduced, and therefore, the debt is more fucked up. There's a lot of room available. There is a very important input of foreign capital centered on the real estate loan, related to the real estate sector in Catalonia, and it generates a dynamic of increase of the price of the asset, of the price of the housing, and a dynamic, therefore, of increase of all aspects of risk in the field of the real estate credit: ends every time longer, type of interest and conditions determined, some of which have been discussed in this Ple, yesterday itself, as for example the sole or other types of contract conditions that actually in many cases are abusive clauses. By the time the credit line is closed, that expansive dynamic is skewed and produces a fall in the price of housing, with which many families were found to have a very important debt that was used to pay an act, a habitat, that had greatly reduced its value. The non-payment of the debt involves the loss of this habitation, and how it does not serve to cover all the debt, therefore, and stay homeless and with a debt to pay. There was a bank rescue, but a lot of people who suffered from this situation can be quite clear that no one came to rescue them. Meanwhile, it is normal that there are sectors of our country that perceive an injustice, a difference, when in the commercial sphere many real estate promoters that have failed..., obviously, therefore, that debt remained in the hands of the banks, the debt remained pending, so, through the banks, the housing stocks remained to guarantee their credits, and many suppliers of these promoters, who were the ones that were, right? , at the last part of this housing market, therefore, with feta per collect. In fact, the rescue of the financial entities assumed that there was a stock of doubtful receivables and a stock of housing at a market price that did not cover its own debt with the financial entities, and the financial entities, the debt they held with the capital markets. Before the state bank failed, the Spanish bank, as happened, in the case of Portugal or Ireland, at the level of the European institutions and the International Monetary Fund, they rescued those entities offering instruments with the guarantee of the state at the end. A security covered, therefore, which involves a contingent liability that obviously involves taking up public debt, not with immediate budgetary recourse, in many cases, but with a future public debt. It was said at the time – Minister De Guindos – that the bank rescue would cost the city zero_euros. Today the Bank of Spain says that there will be more than 40,000_million euros that will be impossible to recover. Result: Mr De Guindos, Vice-President of the European Central Bank. In any case, the prizes are very curious in this life. The reality, therefore, is that this guarantee of the State that was articulated through Sareb, the painful public bank, absorbed the toxins of the funded entities. And this entity, the Sareb, so as to achieve balance, is learning from these actions many times at a very low prices and with very large stocks, with very large packages of housing in return hands, that they see it not as an act to manage as real estate enterprises– and, therefore, because the people who live there, consume habitat, let's say, through the intermediary of the logger–, but as an act only to finance. And, therefore, as the honourable Member said, for, this act, trossing it very small and so... that the collateral follows the guarantee of the dynamic of new debt emission in the markets. What can we do before this? So in the second intervention I will tell you, but great and retrotract, public financing in the field of social housing promotions, joint ventures and entities for the acquisition of the good and retrotract; consolidate the normative figures, for example, in the field of empty housing tax, and guide the property policy of the Government of Catalonia with actions that are not affected by the public service, to provide a public service, and that can be habitat..., guide them precisely in this social emergence, and the management that we are making of the heredities that are being tested went this way. Next time I'll tell you who these performances are, and so I hope you'll give me the opportunity to make that second come back so I can detail them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.33.0	Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If you fly, get out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.34.0	I'll be back soon because I'm very interested in what I can dig into. [[relays]] in the answer that I know they are well prepared, because I think there are some ideas that might be very interesting to share..., and continue to deepen in the future, let's say, legislative initiatives that I would like to share. So, dry, and so can he, the vice president. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the return, therefore, of the Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.36.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, these parliamentary innovations show that flexibility is necessary in interpreting standards, as well as in the Rules of Parliament, and that is very good. In any case, things that can be done and that, in fact, we should push. Some of the administrations facing problems in access to housing and maintenance are municipal administrations. And we find ourselves with the paradox that the assemblies of our country have, at these times, accumulated surpluses in Catalonia of 1,000_million euros that the strict application of the Law of Presuppositional Stability, although they are in surplus, does not allow us to profit. Therefore, modification of the Presuppositional Enabling Law because the current municipal surpluses, which are blocked by the strict application of the expenditure rule, can be used in part to exercise this right to storm and retract by the joints, and therefore they can acquire habitats and allocate them to the public housing center of social loguer in those locations where there is an accredited demand. The local administrations, I repeat, of our country have 1,000_million accumulated surplus. The Generalitat de Catalunya, in the last closed exercise, held a deficit of 1,200_millions. Therefore, we understand that these resources available in the hands of the joints should... – and the joints, I am not convinced, that they would absolutely agree–, could be allocated in this sense. Therefore, we would push for changes before the Government of the State to deepen these exceptions to the expenditure rule. Second place, Català Institute of Finance. We announced a few weeks ago: a line of 250_million euros of financing, with very, very competitive financing costs, because municipal entities, because social entities and public administrations and public enterprises can exercise the right to storm and retract or to create new protected housing promotions for the loguer. Therefore, if one of the problems is financing, we have an instrument, the public bank of this country, which is the Catalan Institute of Finance, which has to focus in this sense. It is a work of the Catalan Institute of Finance, Department of Vice Presidency, and, above all, Department of Territories and Sustainability. On the other hand, the agreements for the housing sessions of entities financed to allocate them to social logists; they have occurred, not only with Sareb, with other entities, have they not? , financial entities that have also been the result of absorptions in this banking restructuring process, but they will still have to push much more. Therefore, we will persist in these arrangements. An important instrument is the tax on empty habitats, which, when it was presented in this Parliament, I remember that it was said that it would not serve per re, that it was destined for the fracàs. Listen'm, last year, 18_million euros, 2017; the one we carry from 2018 until the summer has entered 16,3. It is an imposition that the resources that are not obtained are finalists, therefore, intended for public housing policy, and, precisely, one of the priorities is the exercise of this right of storm and retreats. And, finally, in the minute and half that I'm left of king, Junta d'Herènciaes de la Generalitat de Catalunya. Last July we had a controversy, I think the surface mass, around those heresies that are stubborn, that do not have heresy, that are going to stop at the Generality of Catalonia. We have come to the compromise, the year 2017, that when in these heritages there are habitats, these, prioritise them to be used for social habitation. Some of these habitats, because of the conditions, because of the situation, are not adequate to allocate them to protected habitat, but the resources that can be generated with their subterranean, yes. And this past July, exactly, we did this. Now, with the sub-up to last July we could acquire thirty-five habitats, having subsided twenty-i-seven. Therefore, the number of habitats that we will obtain from these operations is significantly increased. EUR 3,8_million was obtained; EUR 2,9_million was immediately allocated to the acquisition of housing in the city of Barcelona and in the metropolitan area. Therefore, we also direct the management of this heritage of the Generalitat come from the heritages intended for protected housing policies. It's not just a matter of doing the right economic management technically, but giving it a political feeling, and one of the most important political feelings is working to ensure the right to housing of our citizens because no one is left behind. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.37.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Asking the Government about the rise of the ultrathreat]] [[300-00058/12]] The next question, on the rise of the ultra-right..., is presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. She exposes the inquiry, Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.38.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, president, companies, companies, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, the people who accompany us today to the Chamber and to all those people who follow us by whatever means the Parliament already has. Our company is witnessing changes in dynamics that can pass us a hard bill to take on. The most recent example of this has been in Andalusia, where we have seen the entry of twelve deputies from the extreme right into the Spanish State. It is the last consequence of an event that has been heard from Europe and the world. In this Parliament we have already repeatedly condemned it; at the last plenary of general policy, without going further, in a place where the PP and Ciutadans have abstained, a fact which, far from being an anecdote, perfectly illustrates how some political parties understand the struggle against the extreme right. We're shocked when Trump lowers the American nation, but it doesn't matter when Minister Borrell minimizes his genocide. We certainly put the crit to the cell when Salvini denies the entry of immigrant ships, but we look at another band when the PSOE government considers Libya a safe port. And now we've got the extreme right here in your boldest version. What's going on? How and why did the speech of hate to the Spanish society get excited? If we make a mockery of the main proposals of the twelve Members of Vox, we should be very concerned. Companies and companies, aren't you worried that a party would say that it would repeal the Genre Violence Act? Because, according to them, many complaints are false and because many of the aggressors are immigrants. What irresponsibility to link gender-based violence with immigration! [[Greetings.]] General or male violence has no race, no origin, no social status. It's genera's rape. The data of the Spanish State together deny this theory. Only 30_percent of the victims are immigrants and 70_percent of the aggressors are of Spanish nationality. But Vox links violence to immigration, because they want to create a division between them and us using immigration to put the negative emphasis on cultural diversity; an immigration that has served them to excuse or that has served them as an excuse not to make real proposals to fight the news, but to place them as citizens who don't have the same right to access a place of work. Falaccies, or better said, stereotypes that the extreme right attributes to the immigrant population. Lies without real base, as Caritas explains to his campaign« Sharing the trip. They lie when they say that immigrants are living on economic benefits and delinquent. This is one of the most widespread rumors, but the reality shows that immigration, in global terms, brings much more in tax payments than the benefits it receives. They also deny that immigration puts culture at risk, a speech about why it contrasts with historical reality. In short, Vox represents a danger for his racist, masculinist and classist proposals, and his twelve escons in the Andalusian Parliament are a touch of attention that must be reflected on by all democrats. But we are wrong if we think that Vox's rise is due to an increase in racism, masculinism or classism in the Spanish State. Their emergence into political activity may end up leading to a public debate with authoritarian attitudes, but the one that opened the door to them followed anti-talanism: the repressive policy against independence animated by Ciutadans, executed by the PP and continued by the PSOE. That's what opened the door for them. If we take the post-election study of the Andalusian elections held for El País, the data are clear: more than 33_percent of Vox's voters do so to defend the unit of Spain, and 28_percent, to curb independence; a vote that does not need social and economic vulnerability. Vox collapses between voters for lower returns and increases between higher returns. Vox isn't a new populist right, it's the old French right. The sub-hate to which the PP has lent itself, Citizens and Estonians the PSOE has legitimized actions of the extreme right before much of the Spanish society. When the leaders of Vox are manifested day after day with Mrs. Arrimadas, Mr. Rivera, Mr. Albiol, and, finally, Mr. Iceta, are legitimized before the citizenry. When Vox's leaders act as a private accusation that I've kept democrats compromised in prison, they're legitimized before the citizenry. When some media say that there are bands of paramilitary discipline in Catalonia, it legitimizes and requires the extreme right to the eyes of many of the citizens. [[Greetings.]] Feixism thrives when traditional parties deny rights and freedoms, the fruit of historical struggles, and compete to see who has the hardest against women, against migrants or against Catalans. Experience teaches us that compromise with civil and political rights, with freedom of expression, with right to protest, with promotion and respect for human rights is possible to combat party speeches like Vox. In the accounts of this compromise, we find ourselves with the PP, Ciutadans and PSOE, that they compete to see who finds a more ridiculous excuse to be able to apply Article 155; as politicians and Tertullians is barallen to see who can criminalise in a more grotesque way the legitimate protest of the citizenry. Faixism is not combat with false dilemmas between freedom and security, it is not combat with less rights, but with more rights. Go further, do continuous pedagogy on human rights to unmask Vox's lies. We can only ask ourselves when the PSOE of Pedro Sánchez will learn that the only opportunity to stop the nationalist and authoritarian drift of the Spanish State is a firm and clear compromise with plurality and the dialect, because anyone would say that, with the reaction of Ciutadans, PP and PSOE, Vox does not fall more than twelve escons in Andalusia to govern the State. You have been much more receptive to the requests of the '11_percent of the voters of Andalucía de Vox than to the continued requests of the 80_percent of the city of Catalonia: the end of repression, freedom and reference. For all this, from the Group of the Republic we want to ask the very honorable Counsellor Bosch as you see him, as a Counsellor of External Action and with his experience in the international and European arena at this peak of the extreme right. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to ask and demand from all democratic forces a firm compromise before the extreme right. Gentlemen of the PP, Citizens and PSOE, avoiding it is at their hands. Companies and companies, it's time to be honest and accountable with our actions and our alliances. Depending on who we support, who we deal with, we'll be standing with the extreme right or against the extreme right. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.40.0	Thank you, President. Well, that's an uncomfortable issue, and now I'm starting on this room with a topic that, certainly, is uncomfortable, but that's something to talk about. We need to talk about what's going on in the world, what's going on in Europe, and what's going on here in the field of ultrathreats. I thank the Member Najat Driuech who has so courageously exposed us, so a series of questions which, in a sense of doubt, personally has had to endure repeatedly. I thank him for the courage to have exposed him with the strength and clarity that has exposed him here today. And I would like, therefore, to answer, logically, the question he raised: what is happening to Europe and what is happening to the world? So it's happening to him that a ghost, a ghost that's not all new but not all old, is going through Europe, and is going through the world. It is the ghost of intolerance, exclusion, which is based on xenophobia, which is based on racism, which is based on masculinism. It is a ghost that can fight, and that can fight with determination, and that if we don't do it we will find that our society and the society that we leave for our descendants every time will be more unjust, every time will be less democratic, every time will be less free. Do we find ourselves in front of a tornado of fascism? Home, the emerging movements of the ultradreeta and that every time they camp more, especially for what it does to Europe, they will not recognize themselves as bexists, nor as Nazis, nor as Frankists, nor as phalangists; they will not recognize themselves. But, aviam, they drink of the same impulses; they drink of intolerance; they also drink of exclusion, of us against them, of this confrontation that gives rise to coexistence, that makes it very difficult – very difficult –, every time more difficult than the need for coexistence and understanding between those who have a color or other color of skin, so I continue with the fort that we would all desire, or that, at last, confronts people of different sex and gender, confronts people with different creeds, and above all aspires to intolerance respect some of the others, which are considered hegemonic. This ghost that travels through Europe and the world also travels through the kingdom of Espanya? So of course, we're not aliens. We, who at the moment are part of the kingdom of Spain, are not aliens of this phenomenon, and therefore I believe we must not speak. We need to talk..., I think it's a certain competition, a competition held up to see who's the toughest, to see who's the most fanatical, that's happening between the files of the Spanish nationalist right, and that in its conjunction, therefore, it houses and welcomes all these phenomena that have grown up. Therefore, this competition is the one that is exploiting an anti-democratic thread, a thread that goes against people being able to vote, and can vote and decide on their future, or can vote and decide, for example, in this same chamber on how, therefore, the people of Catalonia can fight problems such as housing, can fight problems such as famine or how it makes energy resources, energy poverty, or the fight against gender discrimination. It is this undemocratic thread, which sometimes, therefore, questions the laws, as the honourable Member has rightly pointed out, to combat gender-based violence, for example, or which, for example, therefore questions the necessary advent and the necessary progress to defend also the rights of animals, which they also have, huh? , and so as to pay for the violence against animals, therefore, based on a so-called "national holiday that is an authentic torture, recognized for all entities that are dedicated to defending animals. So we have this thread. We also have, with the ultrathreat that we believe and that each time is more rampant around us, an anti-Catalanist thread too, or even so we would say, we could say, anti-Catalan, in the sense that it is not that it is against Catalans determined by their ideas – or not only –, but that it is against that the assembly of the people of Catalonia can decide their future, and that each freely can express their ideas, it is in favour or it is in opposition. So, even though it's old-fashioned in the sense that it can go against its own followers, because even their own ideas can't be voted on, they can't be expressed in a vote. And so, of course, it is a thread that even questions the existence of the institutions, that, as we saw yesterday, can demand the removal of the president, the president of all Catalans, and we saw yesterday, here in this chamber; that can demand the application of Article 155, which means the elimination of the own institutions of this country, not of certain Catalans who have certain ideas: of all – of all – institutions like this, in which we are all represented. So, in this sense, there is a thread that we believe is harmful, in the sense that it tends to exclusion, and tends to discrimination and tends to the imposition of this radical nationalism. In the background – in the background – we are talking about an ultra-threat that is nothing, like most of the ultra-threats that we are seeing in Europe, in the face of radical nationalism. And in this case, radical Spanish nationalism, which has had exponents in competition over the last few years, has therefore fed this ultra-threat. They talk about the phenomenon of Vox – they talk about the phenomenon of Vox – and the alarm from the Andalusian elections and the results of this formation. But that doesn't happen, that doesn't happen because it does. That's to say, that's because the arms were already on, that's because Vox feeds on '' to them that others have already on. And, therefore, I would also like here to appeal to the responsibilities of all those who have been attaching to the arms that have allowed such an overt xenophobic formation, so overtly against freedom and gender equality... I would like to appeal to the forces that have made it possible for this to be increased, the forces that have been feeding the « to them, the forces that have been feeding the exclusion, the forces that have been feeding the Spanish radical nationalist fanaticism, this version of Spanish nationalism that is not positive, that acts in denial, that does not want to build a new country, but rather that it wants to destroy those that question a homogeneous model, a centralist model, an unquestionable model of nationalism. Therefore – so – I would like to call directly on the companies here present of the People's Party, which, from the campaign against the 2006 Statute as a minimum, have been questioning the foundations of coexistence in Catalonia; that from the 1st of October, being to the Government, from the police deployment against a popular vote, from the application of 155, have been feeding the branches that the ultrathreat brought to the boom that we are currently seeing in the Spanish State and concretely in Andalusia. I would like to appeal to the companies here present from Ciutadans, of those who have signed a speech against the Catalan school, against the social cohesion that has allowed the Catalan model of inclusive school. I'd like to appeal against them, and I'd like to say that, listen, the ultrathreat, help us fight it. Change the speech, change your ideological and political mark, because it is what has fed and what will continue to feed everything that is going on. We have a problem: it's called radical Spanish nationalism, and we have to face it – we have to face it. It is a nationalism that can come to insult other peoples, such as the people of Slovenia, calling it violent, questioning their independence, questioning their democratic model. It is a transversal nationalism that can also come to insult for example the North American Indians and how they are victims of an unquestionable genocide from the world. It is a nationalism that can come to deny that Europe, to various countries of Europe, is trying to do justice while here there is injustice at the time of defending people that the only one they have made is to put the ballot boxes in order to be able to vote. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, before this, they ask all those who have been feeding the phenomenon of the ultra-right that they stop doing and who do, as we ask, what we have to do: to defend democracy, coexistence, justice and freedom in our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the 78th Regime and the need for full sovereignty in order to build a national and social liberated country]] [[300-00054/12]] The next question is about the 78's regime and the need for full sovereignty to build a country nationally and socially liberated, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. The honourable Member Vidal Aragonés explains the question. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] We'll wait a few minutes. If they locate the deputy, or not... [[Pause. Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.42.0	Excuse me, President. We're hoping that Congressman Vidal Aragonese will arrive, that I think...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.43.0	It's here... - it's here. It's here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.44.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.45.0	When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.46.0	Thank you, Members of Parliament. Thank you, President. You know, sometimes how difficult it is to manage time in a subgroup of four Members and a technical office of two people. This question that we present today or that we do today to the Government relates to what happened forty years ago and to the point of inflection of what was called the transition. It began to close a stage or all of a stage of struggles of the movement practically unprecedented, a union movement that combined in good measure labor claims and democratic claims, and that could overflow the Franco regime. Also, a reality of strong sovereign claims, both to our country as well as to Euskal Herria or Galicia. The answer that was given to these struggles and the combination of the anti-Franchist movement was from within the same rule. For a band, and, first of all, through the amnesty law, the amnesty law which did not know or, more clearly, did not recognize the condition of prisoners or political prisoners to all those who had that condition, who even and all collectors senters, such as the gai collection, kept them in prison, and, for another band, which, above all, was supposed to guarantee to the group of those responsible for the violation of the franchise who would never be tried. Second of all, what Moncloa's pacts expressed in the socio-economic sphere was that they gave answers to workers' complaints, they were willing to recognise free accommodation, and they limited pay increments. And the third, surely the great answer of the 78 rule: the Spanish Constitution, through which it turns all that we call the 78 rule and at once also the great legal element where the Spanish State was built in the last forty years. The whole year of constitutional processing was a blast of sabers, and what it meant, obviously, was that the military indicated that they did and that they did not accept changes in the regime. Certainly, in the period from 1975 to 1982 there were hundreds of murders such as political violence, of which 245 people were in the hands of the extreme right and the state apparatus – many times it is almost impossible to distinguish when the extreme right was or when the state apparatus was. And we want to put this in the context of some of the things that happened this week. We already know that we do not buy the report of the model and peaceful transition, but, yes, we will never attribute it to those who assume the transition to the dead of the transition. So when it comes to "Slovene way" it is not the one that defends the UPC; certainly, we would also call it a little serious, which obviously means that there is a bet there for the right of self-determination and that it is not betting, when it comes to that, because of conflict that means dead. And we even want to move in a friendly way to the group of progressive groups of this chamber who have spoken of the Slovenian way. This week, he reflected on who is interested at this point in time that the Slovenian road is moved in this way and not in another way. Also the context of discussion. There has been talk many times, in a closed way, of a reduced group of men, but at the same time, also, that the Constitution meant how it responded to the demands of the working movement and at the same time to the survival of the same apparatus of the Spanish State. Nor do we want to deny, from the CUP, that the significance of the Constitution was also civil rights, political rights and the recognition of multipartyism. But for us, the reading we have to make of the Constitution is another, and it is quite different. First, the principles of the market economy, constitutionalized, in such a way that those or those we believe in in some other economic relations, the overcoming of capitalism, we do not have the Spanish Constitution. Clearly, this practically becomes a joke when in 2011, in a few days, it is decided to set the priority payment of the debt before any other political action, and, at the very least, we can talk about how it hinders any expression of simply social-democratic policies. In the same way, that the Head of State is built in an inherited way in the descendants of the Bourbon monarchy that Franco designates as successors, at times also with political responsibilities, with the ability to do politics, of this Head of State, but able to control his political action. Not only does the Spanish Constitution not recognize the right to self-determination, but it also denies the possibility that there will be..., which has been called ‘autonomous communities, which can be federated, breaking with historical nations as could be the Catalan Countries or as could be Euskal Herria. It is a democratic exercise in relation to the army, the Civil Guard and the judiciary. One year before the Constitution, what was the Court of Public Order is transformed from a 4 of generation to a 5 of generation in the Criminal Chamber of the National Audience, with absolute continuity. Nor bet for a secular state; it is simply confessional and with privileges for Catholic England. I don't guarantee with the phoneial rights some of them as important as the sanitarium. And it doesn't guarantee public education and free education at all levels. That's what the Spanish Constitution meant. I the last element to be valued, which means also the Constitutional Court, as the status quo guarantees. We've seen it in the last few months, especially in this country. In short, I changed all the time because I was still the same, or, more precisely, the expression 'gattopardista', that I changed some things because I did not change the essential. That is why, all that the 78th rule means, and because we are a nation, we want to exercise full sovereignty. And we transfer it to the government, first of all: sovereignty is the full exercise of phonenal rights, such as gathering, demonstration and vagueness. Is the government's response to the call for two hours' leave on the 21st of December to suspend all travel permits? Are they telling us that the answer they gave to a phone book right is to send us the moves? For us, too, the problem of squadron movements is not a real question, nor are there any civilian guards coming from a military and absolutely anti-democratic body. It's not about that. It is a model theme, a security model theme. Certainly, the government can give us an answer as to how it gets at home, now a week ago in Girona, a protestant seven times when it tries to rise from the ground, if this is globally correct? The government wants to give us an answer as to what it looks like when the squadron moves aim at us and shoot at us pilots or starved balls to which we are protesting, if this is globally correct? Obviously, we say no, and we're talking about models, not concrete actions. And we also ask them to stop criminalizing what it means to go out and give answers to faixist calls. Obviously, it's a democratic obligation and an expression of dignity. Sobirania is also prioritizing the decisions of the Parliament of Catalonia to the Constitutional Court, to the Supreme Court. Will the Government continue to flatten itself before the repressive actions of the Constitutional and Supreme Courts? Soberania is also doing what we approve of in this Parliament. On 5 July, they approved a motion which made it very clear: "In the future, all measures to ensure the content of suspected articles are implemented. What did the government do about it? We already give them the answer – and we move forward, but we want explanations –: nothing, absolutely nothing; two meetings with the Government of the Spanish State. Educational sovereignty, which will mean, for another band, that it is possible to guarantee a public teaching of quality in all levels. In fact, today, unfortunately, it is no longer possible to guarantee only a model or a right to public education. What is the government doing, too, in relation to those oligarchies, that most of them came from the franchise, that they have already expressly said that they boycott the Catalan Republic and that they are managing social services? Look, we'll tell you in a very clear way. We're not saying that they have to make concessions because they're not republicans, we're giving them another thing: public management as a form of republic construction. Will they continue from the government still maintain a private-run public sanitation that the only one that concerns them are the benefits and not give answer to the waiting lists? Or do they initiate processes of sovereignty that means to have the management and provision of our sanitation? Will the government continue without starting the process of creating a Catalan public bank? Is it possible that the heretics of Francoism, in full 21st century, continue to manage the bank? It's not possible to finance sovereignty over this. And will the government continue to allow the great builders, the same ones that grew out of the hand or under the shadow of the franchise, to manage the habitation, and that we do not give an answer as to govern our people to guarantee a quality habitation? And last but not least, what is surely more decisive: until now we have not seen any measure of this government that means sovereignty; we have only seen how we manage the knuckles of the 78th rule, knuckles that cannot give answers to the need of our people. Triin: either built the republic or managed the gulls of the 78th Regime. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.48.0	Mr Aragonese, I thank you for your contribution to the debate and I will try to answer some of the questions that you have raised. I already anticipate that some of the questions that you, therefore, have brought here sure you could answer them better from the Councillor of the Interior, eh? , especially the one referring to the moves, sure. I'm showing that I'm also opening up in this room today, and I'm opening up with a double intervention, so... Yes, I think that the Interior Councillor, for example, could answer these questions better, but the government line already knows what it is, and it's that the Cos des Mosso d'Esquadra, like the national police, so what it has to do is to guarantee the rights, as now the right of vacancy that you wanted, the right of freedom of expression and manifestation. So I'm sure that, with all the professionalism, that's what they're going to continue to do. For what it does to other questions that you, therefore, have also brought here, I am sure that the Vice President and Councillor of the Economy of this Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, could also have answered better than me. But, come on, I can tell you that it's not that nothing's happened. I believe that much has been done; the one who passes, who also, say, is prevented much by doing things, right? And, for example, so you know perfectly well what we are doing in the line of creating public finances associated with the Government of Catalonia that can benefit all citizens. And you also know perfectly well everything we have tried to comply with legislation to improve the housing crisis, legislation to deal with the poor energy, legislation to combat gender discrimination. All this has been tried, all this has been brought here to this chamber, all this has been voted on, approved, but then it has fallen. And you know that, say, it's not because you haven't tried so hard or because the government of Catalonia hasn't tried so hard, just because we have a problem, a problem that we share and that you were thinking about and that I totally agree with, and that's not having passed the 78 rule, which, I guess, is now the germ of many of the injustices and inequalities that we suffer. At that time, when he voted and approved the Spanish Constitution of 78, so he accepted what was then a democratic majority not only in the kingdom of Spain, but also in Catalonia, which accepted that constitutional mark. It wasn't that way for figures to say that you feel you know, as Senator Lluís Maria Xirinacs, who rejected it, and as the only Catalan Member who rejected it, who was from the Republican Left of Catalonia – he will remember that, won't he? – because we did not admit an elementary right that we considered elementary then – and, in this sense, we have not altered our convictions – as is the right to self-determination. So, look, I think we're basically on board here. The 78th rule, therefore, we understand that it did not begin with a good little, but at that time there were some majorities that were the ones who fulfilled those standards of the game. In time we have joined, and I would say that the majority of the people of Catalonia and, therefore, a majority of the political forces that today occupy this hemisphere, so they have also agreed that it is exhausted, that it is obsolete, that it has already begun inadequately, but that more today is a hindrance to the exercise of our most elementary rights and our freedoms. So here I think we also agree. We agree that the 78-year rule from the beginning, but every time, we say, it was more known and more transparent – if I may say so – so it allowed us to freeze injustices like job insecurity, which you yourself mentioned, right? A well-established regime in the heteropatriarchate, too, right? As you have also mentioned at some point, it has violated very basic and very elementary social rights and has therefore not allowed us to have a society as we wish, fairer, more open, more free, more egalitarian. It's also a rule that, for what makes questions more political, has prevented free expression, huh? , and he used his great letter, the Constitution of 78, not as a house of liberties, which is supposed to be a democratic constitution, but in the most regressive way possible, with an interpretation as skewed as it could, with a highly politicized constitutional court and, therefore, has brought us where it has brought us. I mean, he took us to October a year ago. The October of a year ago, in which that lack that already in its time Xirinacs or other representatives pointed out, therefore, has allowed us to organize a vote so that the people of Catalonia is pronounced and there has been a clear mandate, but it has not allowed us to be strong enough so that this mandate has actually been recognized, recognized internally and above all externally. Therefore, here we have a dilemma that we must face, and that we must face internally and also externally. And as counsel for the outside world, I tell you that one of my main efforts is based on this, on making us grow up, on making us stronger externally so that the truths of what is going on here are known, and they are known all over the world, and so that those injustices and failings that we are patenting are also known, and so that it is also recognized, therefore, the most basic right of the people of Catalonia to be free and to take their decisions. On this path, then, so that I don't happen again what happened to us last year, what we do need is to be stronger and grow up. To be stronger democratically; to be stronger civically; to be stronger peacefully, a sense of doubt– a sense of doubt–, but to be stronger. And that the strategic unit among all republicans, all those who share the republican values and who also share the belief in a more social, fairer, more open Catalan republic... that all of us can start the way and continue to feel uncomfortable and try to consummate the strategic unit to bring together very different people. And that, even in sum, we can count on those forces and those people who may not be independent, who may not have as their object the Catalan Republic that we do have, but which sense of doubt are democrats, who believe in the right to self-determination, who believe in freedoms and social rights and who can therefore accompany us on this path. I repeat, huh? So, this petition for popular unity candidatures that we do not lose sight of this path, this strategic unity path in which we are stronger, and in which we can take sides of freedom and justice that, if not, would be very difficult. I believe that here we can go together, we can go together with all those other democrats who also believe, as you do, or express it with the words that you were saying, in overcoming the 78th rule, who believe that we can get out of it and that they believe that all this, at the end of the day, will benefit our people, some citizens and some citizens who can be much more free, who can live much better if we can overcome all the obstacles that have been politically created over the last forty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.49.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the return, again, of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.50.0	In the answer to the question we are told that the Councillor should answer us, but we are today asking the Councillor and the Government. And what seems to us, of course, is that you are ratifying what has been a response that is globally correct. And it seems to us that it's an authentic humiliation that before the anti-fessist reaction you, knowing how you have stunned Girona, knowing how you're aiming and shooting at Terrassa, still continuing with the speech that the performance has been globally correct. We were hoping for another answer from the government, which seemed to be the first, but perhaps some more from within the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra than the government. And, therefore, they make the proper reflection. You haven't spoken yet about the violence we suffered last week in Girona and Terrassa. You also told me, Mr. Bosch, that today was opening up... welcome to your premiere, we really do. But, look, welcome to this premiere, and we want to say that to what we have stated about you not doing anything, so, it's not our answer, it's the answer the government gives us. Released from the register, November 22, 2018: The People's Unit application directly petitioned all government departments to tell us what they were doing in relation to returning the material contents of the suspicious laws. Do you know what the government gave us? Negotiations with the Government of the Spanish State and only two refunds: one for a total withdrawal and the other for a partial withdrawal. That's the only answer. Therefore, no restitution. We don't say it, the government says it in the answer it gives us. You were talking to us about constitutional origins. Miri, I did not want to rectify it, but we fully assume what Xirinacs meant in the constitutional process, as well as what Mr Letamendia meant, but on October 31, 1977, Herbert Barrera did abstain from the Constitution. What was different was that the Republican Left, for the 6th of December, raised the no to the Constitution. With this we do not mean that Esquerra was in favour of the Constitution, but it is a matter of historical truth: what did he do on October 31st, Herbert Barrera and what did he do afterwards Esquerra Republicana. Certainly, his party was not even able to stand in those elections because it was not legalized. He went there with a platform with the Spanish Labour Party, and that's why he could have a deputy at the Spanish Congress. Out of the question, too, that it is always clear what has been done in every historical stage. You say to us: « We have not been allowed..., « we are not strong enough, « we must be more people. We don't exactly buy the speech to expand the base, but we certainly agree that we need to be stronger and we need to be more, more organized and more, because the repression of the Spanish State is not possible in the construction of the republic. But do you think or does the government think that, in relation to those you ask, you will be able to win them with a system of taxation as we have in the Principality? Do you think he'll win them? Do you think they'll win those who see college expulsions because they can't pay taxes? Do you also think that they will win those who wait fifteen or twenty days for a midwife or divide or die for surgery? Think we'll win them this way? Obviously, either deep social policies or it is not possible to add more or build more, because there is only one speech in relation to four very simple ideas: waiting lists... I do not continue, because we have already heard it many times, in this Parliament. And the last one we wanted to share with the government, to know if this is a matter for the government or some of the parties that today form the government. We have heard, and we want to be confirmed if this is so, a representative of the Republican Left at the Spanish Congress, esteemed – and I say so – and my view Tardà, saying that there can be a consultation where you are asked whether independence or whether autonomy. Is it true that after all these years the way that some of the political parties that form part of this government can be set up is to go and discuss autonomy? Please, leave, say that this is not true, that this is not the door, and clarify it, because not only do they not generate confidence in good part of the republic movement, but they generate confusion over their own people. And the other theme: where will you be on the 21st of December? Where? Giving support to the repression of the Mossos or to protests in relation to the visit of the Spanish Government, which is making the great act of lerouxism that we never thought would make the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol. We shall see, unfortunately, the very diverging, talking to us about social measures, when what he actually does here is political repression. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the reply, again, is the return of the External Action Advisor, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.52.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Aragonès, you're asking us where to be on the 21st of December. The Republican Left will be where it has always been: where it must be, that it is defending the freedoms and social rights of this country, and always manifesting itself in a civic, peaceful and democratic way. That's right, we've always been. We've never failed. Where will the government of this country be? So the government of this country will be ensuring that these expressions can be celebrated free of charge. It's this government's obligation that everyone can express on the street, huh? That everyone is able to express in public spaces, that everyone is able to express anywhere else, in a civic, peaceful and democratic way. Of course, that's what it is. So that's where we'll find each other. You questioned the convictions of the late company. I think they're unquestionable. Mr. Joan Tardà is not an autonomist. And, you see, he's a person with a full and long trajectory as if he'd validated it. And, therefore, Mr. Tardà, of course – I already say, and we know each other well, and I know he knows what he's talking about – he never claimed to be able to ask a question about autonomy. It is more than that that the Spanish Government makes some proposal, because the problem – the problem – is that the Spanish Government, the Spanish governments, what they have done is to say that not all the proposals that we have made, and that perhaps above the time that the Spanish Government, not only because the situation in Catalonia politically can be free and just, but also because the kingdom of Spain is still there, has the obligation to propose some formula in order to overcome the political dispute that at these times the same Spanish power has brought to us. Therefore, this is what we say – this is what we say – that there is some proposal on the part of the Spanish Government. As for restitutions, you said it yourself: we are making every effort to ensure that it is returned to those laws suspended in its moment, and that it is the law, most of them social. If I ask myself, within my area of responsibility, I can also say that refunds are one of our main concerns. We are restoring, for example, all those delegations that were foreign, of the Government of Catalonia, and that allow us to inform the world of what is going on, of our reality and of all the injustices that we are patenting, to promote, of course, the well-being and the Catalan economy, which is our obligation. On the other hand, so, dearly, I also tell you that the consensus that I was talking about to the principle, we want to convey that this consensus..., whenever there is consensus, broad consensus between the different political forces that we want to advance, that we want to overcome the 78's rule, dearly, sense of doubt, they have seen us with much more respect and with much more strength. Therefore, I repeat what I gave to the beginning. Because you and we are very clear that we need to overcome the 78th rule and all the derivatives that have taken us to the current situation, which we need to overcome. And I don't think it's fair, allow me, that neither you nor I accused ourselves that we have done nothing to overcome the nameless 78's rule and its consequences. Because if we had not done anything, Mr Aragonese, you would not have an exile in Switzerland, neither would we; we would not have political prisoners in prison, in various formations, we would not have various exiles. It is obvious that there are people here from all the republican formations, from all the formations that want authentic democracy, social rights and freedoms in Catalonia, that we have sacrificed ourselves and that we will continue to sacrifice ourselves for the sake of this country and to overcome a situation of manifest injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into primary and community care]] [[302-00034/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The next point, the twenty, is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into primary and community care. Presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, to expose it has the word the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.54.0	Thank you, President. We present this motion after, just, the vagueness and agreement with the primary care faculty, and also after the agreement with the public service workers for the return of payments. It is obvious that there are governments or not governments that only respond to the pressure and, therefore, we have to live four or five days of vacancies of doctors and midwives, a threat of general vacancies of the and public workers of the Generalitat, to find those money that you see now that they are, after they have told us so many times that they are not. In fact, when neither salvation, nor education, nor safety, nor even social services are assumed to be non-essential, as some Members of this House have well defined, what happens. It goes on, therefore, that the last assumption that was approved, that of 2017, that of the Generalitat, is still 2,187_millions per sub of that of the year 2010. But it is in terms of salvation that I would like them to be aware that while public sanitation has lost 881_millions, private sanitation has had an increase of 889_millions, and here I leave it. In any case, the motion retreats what the vague has put in evidence, right? The reality of health professionals tired of keeping the level of the system thanks to their dedication, with a announced coin and plateret that posts a year of any decision, with a loss of purchasing power; a convenient collection of the concerted health care that excludes, for the first time, the claims of the meths and that the Cat Salut makes see that it does not go with it; a political structure to the Health Department that is limited to making self-compliments to Twitter or creates new figures, such as the General Directorate of Health Professionals, but few answers; that does not incorporate the infirmary into the scope of the proposed and agreed measures, or the reality of the overrunning that the primary care teams have explained to us during these days, among other things of the public opinion on the subject. That's why the first point of our young lady, who I think can hold everyone's recollection, is that you tend to this 25_percent of the health care premise to primary attention, because, as we said in the presentation, giving it premise is recognition and giving it also dignity, and facilitating, for example, that the MIRs return to choosing primary care for their training, and doing so in collaboration with the universities. We also claim to have enough professionals – it may look like a little Perogrullo but this is the reality: we don't have them – to cover the usual needs. We know that this won't be one day for another, but, like at least, if someone can start posing there... We have the announcement now of the two-hundred-and-fifty faculty, but in any case, we must have volunteered. And, in response to the new needs, we believe that we need to define and redefine the portfolio of services to the primary care network, with more specialized professionals. It is necessary to strengthen mental health, public health, chronicle, nutrition, all these aspects that are and that respond to the social, demographic and economic changes that we are patenting. Three aspects of the motion that I would not wish to fail to mention: reduction of bureaucratic structures, which are currently very heavy, with many squares of command that are self-justification generating more management than the same optional ones; simplification of structures, creation of new professions that make faculty and infirmary do what they have to do, that is clinical, strictly, and not dedicated to doing according to what they manage and that can also do the management of their agendas. Secondly, we have to work to overcome territorial inequities, above all for what makes specialities and above all to overcome these periods of inhabitants per profession, that in some areas of Catalonia we find that they are very close to each other, but they don't think I'm talking about Lleida, do they? , I am also talking about the metropolitan area, where, for example, the rate of pediatricians per inhabitant has fallen sharply. And, finally, the setting up of reconciliation and equality plans. Something has come up in agreement with the ICS, but it has to be extended to the rest of the concerted centres. It can't be that CatSalut's squeaking through the concert centers. In reality, CatSalut is part of the employer, has 70_percent of the property of the concerted centres and all work with public subsidy. Therefore, we must be able to demand them not only measures of equality and reconciliation, but we must be able to do so, as one of the items that we have incorporated from Catalonia into Comú Pode, that those agreements that have been withdrawn from the ICS be extended to all primary schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, to defend the papers presented by the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Pom, the deputy Mrs Marta Ribas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.56.0	Good morning. The wave of primary care doctors has been, I think, a great touch of attention, especially on a subject that we have already given a lot of people many years ago, that we are giving here to the Parliament of Catalonia, but that especially the professionals in the centres and also the white platforms and tides in the streets and at the gates of the hospital centres and the CAPs. Retail kills, and that's a long time ago we've been doing it. The details have affected the quality of our health care system, and they have especially affected the quality of the system to primary care, which is not only the door to the system's entry – we are tired of this sentence – it is what up to 80_per_cent of the population, is what solves a good part of the medical care needs and, in an efficient health care system, so they show all the studies done in systems run by the world, it is why we should have a good part of the whole system. The primary must not just be the door, the primary must be the center of the health system, the backbone of a health system that is effective and effective. From Catalonia to Comú We can defend a system of primarist base, which we do precisely for this efficiency, for this efficiency, for this greater fairness of the system, which is shown to be in a system of basic primary care, but above all, because it is the guarantee that a system centered on people, on the patient, on its circumstances and not on the disease, a system based on health and not on the disease. And that is why primary care teams must be able to do these health promotion, prevention, diagnostic, treatment, rehabilitation, accompanying people in all aspects of the disease, and orientation of all this work from a biopsychosocial type, both in the individual and in the Community sphere. And that can't be done with saturated consultations and cremated professionals, it's impossible. This is not so, as it happens now, they constantly lose the reference of your medical reference team. This is the frontal attack on the primarist logic and the logic of how the primary attention should work. All of this, therefore, cannot be maintained for the neoliberal policies of the Government of Artur but to the whole health system and, with particular harshness, to primary attention. This is done only with a health system that prestiges and, therefore, also economically gives its primary attention, allowing it to organize itself correctly, both in the management of its own premise, which is not happening now, as in the object setting, which is not happening now, as in the choice of its directions, which is not happening now. And it's not just about the details and the policies applied by the government of Artur Mas, by Councilman Boi Ruiz. It does not happen now because Republican Left has kept the same policies in the previous government and in which we carry this government. I think there's been a lot of attention with the meth shift and a lot of other people we've been with for a long time. If it is not done in this sense from now on, it will be clear that Republican Left will continue to be complicit in those neoliberal changes, with determined political will, that the Government of Artur did but with Councilman Boi Ruiz. Either you listen to the tone of attention, or you make the necessary gestures or, with all the vocals and consonants, we will accuse you, to Republican Left, of being accomplices to those determined neoliberal policies. If they don't reverse those changes, they'll want it that way, too. We're going to approve this Socialist Group motion, because that's what we said we were defending. The items that we have made have basically been to update in the detail section that have remained pending after the agreements with what ended the shift of primary teachers. The main elements. One, which was also transferred to the Concerted Primary Centers all the way to the ICS Centers. In my region, in the West Valley, we don't have a CAP of the ICS; all that has been agreed, which is just a dash, which is not enough, but it's a better one, will not affect people from the users that we go with the same health card, in the West Valley, to a primary care center. The same type of agreement and the same conditions of improvement must be passed to the agreed centres. And the other, which has remained pending: the guarantees of minimum time of attention to the user by the professionals of primary care, precisely to be able to make that type of attention that I have described to you a few moments ago: primary care, attention to salvation and not to sickness.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] Next, it's the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mrs Gemma Espigares has the word. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.58.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... It is obvious that we are at an exceptional moment, not just an exceptional moment of country, but an exceptional moment in terms of salvation, and it is important for salvation, of our salvation, of our country, and it is true. But there is one thing that has been said that I think I can't let go: we can't attribute everything the government is doing to last week's bail, and I've been feeling it for a whole week. It's obvious that waves are to be pressed and that pressure is also producing results, and I won't deny that. But it's also true that this government is running short, medium and long and, therefore, as much as we share most of the demands that were made last week, and that's why it also wanted to give a solution to some of the things, we can't help but see that last week's vacancy has brought all the better things that there was this week and the week before, because there wasn't much more. And I get into the detail of some of them, huh? For example, the agreement of the Siscat, foreshadowed the vagueness of which you have spoken to us. We talk about equipping, equipping the hospital and the primary; we talk about better wages; we talk about increasing rates. And all of this, previously on the spot, and all of this, with an agreement that seemed like no one was giving anything believed because it could be signed and ended up signing with a very large majority. I'm saying that because he also said who didn't sign it, but he didn't remember the rest of the people who signed it, and I think it's worth it too. And the mayor's agreement. Of course, 100 million people who have to help us to hire these teachers who have been told, but not just that. Of the measures there are, only this is for the doctors, but all the rest is for the group of professionals of salvation. It has been said that even the best are for nurses, and that is not true either, and there is one nurse – and, moreover, to our group, so we have another – and obviously the Government is also concerned about the issue of the nurse and the health care team's overall. Look, things that have been done. More than a thousand and five hundred health professionals have stabilized, and that's what they'll buy me... I understand that, here, we'll find consensus, that this hasn't been the result of the wave, because it's been more than seven months since it was working and it was possible to do the past month. The Plan, the emergency plan of the past year, with all the presuppositional endowment that it meant and with the reinforcement that it will have this year. The courage that has been given to the hospital of Reus, and this has not been the fruit of the wave: we are putting some of the infrastructures that until now were not in the hands of one hundred publics, and that has not been for the wave. Or the stability of all the professionals there has been. By the way, it is obvious that all the work that Councillor Comín has done is beginning to unfold. The Enapisc will not be the solution to all the evils we have, but as a minimum it will order many of the things we have on the table and help us to do many of the things that are also required in this young man. In fact, we share many of the claims that are made, also that of the presumption, also that the primary is 25_per_cent or tends to be 25_per_cent of the overall presumption. And not only that, and we have said it several times, is that we ask the government for courage – courage – to bet on the primary, but also to bet on prevention. Only when we think that this is not short-term, but when we make bold bets, which means spending money on promoting, preventing, only when we are able to do this, will it be when, in the end, we have the results in the medium and long term that we need. Mirin, about the proposals: we've been talking about it, and there are only two points that we can't share. And we can't share them because, in the Republican Left, they'll find two things: they'll find responsibility and they'll find realism, and realism makes us, today, we can't keep to the concertation all that has been granted, at the moment, to the ICS primary, all that is also object... Obviously, the region of Vallès that was commented by Congresswoman Ribas, but the country's joint is important and we take it into account; therefore, we need to be able to work, obviously, and to do so we need the money that is going down and here we need to be able to find everything. Therefore, let me finish, perhaps, with something that recently comes out: with the good thing that is in the Health Commission, with the whole thing that has happened in this young man, and the political differences that may be in some of the cases, but we are all agreed that we need a model of salvation for all – for all – and that does not exclude anyone, and also work and continue working because this agreement can not only reach the public, but only reverse what is now at the concertation and that, among all...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.59.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.60.0	...you can continue to improve. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.61.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the turn of the deputy Lluís Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.62.0	President... Counselors, counselor, let me start my intervention to keep a record for the counselors who are in prison and who, moreover, are making a wave of fame. It seems to me that it is mandatory and necessary to make a record and, in addition, a record for all those who suffer from deprivation of liberty, therefore, all counselors [[applause]] because, with the Criminal Code, it is necessary to insist many times, but with the Criminal Code, it is not political, politics is in the field of politics, which is precisely where we find ourselves today. [[Widow's remorse.]] The young man... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Lady Levy, it's my turn, now. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] It's up to me, it's up to me. The motion presented for the Socialist Group, which is an extensive motion, is a repte not only from a parliamentary point of view, but is a repte for the Government. And, first of all, we would like to make it clear that we maintain a general enough coincidence about the proposals made by Mrs Escarp, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but certainly what we would like and what we need is to take concrete action on each of these points, which in some cases we maintain the coincidence and, in some cases, as Mrs Espigares has said, we certainly have reservations. First of all, when we are talking – we agree – about raising assumptions, we are referring..., it is that this increase in assumptions, which we see logically tending to 25_percent of the expenditure, must agree on the assumption and this means making sure to negotiate the assumptions of the Government of the Generality for the year 2019 with a positive predisposition so as to reach agreements, because these agreements have, then, transcendence and can make effective these questions that we raise in the motions. Therefore, we ask them..., that we agree to increase, because surely all parliamentary groups would agree to increase the game and resources, in advanced and modern parliamentaryism there is only one possibility to do so, which is in the presuppositional negotiation. And, therefore, do it, talking about assumptions with the responsible advisors. Secondly, it refers in the motion to questions that have to do with a strategic aspect of the department, that it is precisely giving priority and giving preference to the primary and community in the field of salvation, that certainly some shortcomings have occurred in the past few years and that, when they have landed on the table, they have certainly left themselves to prioritise some others. Therefore, we understand that when you make a public offer of employment on the part of the Government, you have to resolve the deficiencies in primary care, not only in the field of doctors, but, as has been said, also in the field of nurses. Because we obviously have to recover the results of 2011 and, for another band, we also have to extend the specialities in the field of primary: mental health, physiotherapy or speech therapy. It's important, for another band, also to assume that there are no teachers in primary school. This is a deficiency that is detected, diagnosed and that we have the obligation, from Parliament and from the government, to resolve. And this can also be done in the university sphere, which means that it must be prioritized that more teaching is given to the university's primary school or that you can make it easier for the students to go deeper into this prediction. And the areas of primary care, of greater autonomy, which means being able to manage their resources – there are already some experiences that are working in the health field. They have to be able to manage resources, they have to have more autonomy, and even they have to think of themselves as responsible or professional in some way deciding who should be their director. And, in a proposal of autonomy and greater independence in management, the results – certainly, that already consist of a point of view and all statistical – are working. We advocate that professionals have a major role to play in decision-making, managing agendas, improving accessibility and precisely addressing the shortcomings of primary care in this area. Reference has also been made to other interesting questions. Equality plans: we are absolutely in agreement, they have to be implemented, they don't just have to look like a concept or a generic document, and they have to be implemented in a short time. The portfolio of services must be completed, defined, placed on the table, published, of course, and implemented in those tests or pilot projects which the same department has been developing and which it will be developing subsequently. Finally, therefore, I would just like to say to you that we support most of the proposal, that this is the way to work in the parliamentary sphere, and that now, of course, what needs to be done is to move these parliamentary agreements. I insist on it, and later on, because we are in the process of negotiating presuppositions: negotiating in the presuppositional sphere all those questions that can be beneficial to the citizenry. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.64.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors and Councillors, call Catalonia a vague because the government reacted before the health system? Should professionals be on the street because working for the health care system is a priority? Have you not seen, have you not listened to the many health proposals that have been made in this House with consensus and in a cross-section, as Mrs Espigares has just commented, the many proposals for resolutions that we have brought to the Health Committee by the various groups and have we approved? So why do you have to wait for a government to keep the professionals on the street to start making gestures, to start finding solutions, to start making proposals? Because, look, this proposal, this present motion is absolutely compatible with which I will defend this late from the Ciutadans in order to dignify, to improve the health system and the professional quality, because we agree that it is necessary to increase the assumptions in health and also the percentage destined for primary care. It's been a long time since we've been here. Like we said, as our company said before, that it would reverse the detail. How many times have some of us from this faristol insisted on it? Because, ultimately, what it is to give dignity to the consultations, what it is to debureaucratize the consultations. We also need to take primary care so that our allies can manage the health system better. And I can hear the idea of independence, I can understand that you have this priority; I can hear – and, in fact, it seems to me absolutely healthy – that there are discrepancies between the groups, but what I find unacceptable is that, as it seems that there is so much agreement on the health issue, whatever is following our speeches here and seeing our consensuss will not hear – so the health people have shown – that it requires a vagueness so that the government reacts. Just like leaving behind the many collections you have left behind in this negotiation, I can't understand why you didn't look for cross-cutting and agreements to get out of this conflict. I honestly believe that you did not find a conciliator to be wrong. I think you may have found much more agreeable and much more consensus seeking alliances, that you might have had them think very easily. Undoubtedly, it strengthens and collects all the pillars of the system: the clinic, undoubtedly, but also the manager, the searcher and, of course, the teacher. It is true that the health system is a priority for the government, which now, undoubtedly, knows that it is not. And ask you never to leave the territorial council empty chair anymore, because you represent us all, and we ask you to defend our interests as well, and this is never done leaving our chair empty. They know that many workers have left the system because the abuse has been chronic. People are wondering why we don't have professionals. So basically, because you've been harassing them for many years, and I can treat them with the dignity they deserve. Dignity that begins by improving the management of agendas. It is not eligible to have agendas with forty or fifty patients in the morning or late. It is not eligible to have eight patients scheduled exactly at the same time. None of you would like to have it in your life. I'd like to recommend two texts today to finish, because what I'm saying is what the professionals are saying. One is the one that has published the Focap, The Awakening of Primary Care, and they tell you, as I have repeated to you here many times from this Faristol, that everything that is going on in the street was predictable, because the health system was not enough. And the recommendations we carry in this House today are the recommendations that the professionals make to you. And this morning Dr. Zurro published this article [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] : "Does anyone know of any political initiative to replenish the Health Council in the last two years? I don't call it Citizens, I call it the health professionals of prestige. Mr. President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, you don't call a spot to stay and work. The health care system is once worthy. Dignity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, of the Deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.66.0	President, to speak from the Escó. Having two minutes and a half, it is not even possible for us to assess the points that form part of the content of this motion, but we do want to explain the general criteria that we will use at the time of being able to express our political criteria in the vote. We will vote that yes to all those points that involve concrete steps to move forward, and we want to recognize that in this motion there are some points that, under the criteria of the CUP - Constituent Creed, have this meaning. Also, it should be noted that we are abstaining on those who are generic and who, therefore, do not guarantee that, with their application, there are effects that are more direct for the health workers or workers or for the health users. And we will vote no to those who chronify and facilitate the management model. And they see that even when we say "no," there is a whole series of points or a few points, better said, that we think they deepen more the private management model that is given in a part of public health and that can further pre-empt the conditions of workers and workers and that can make it easier for us not to give a good public service of quality. And last but not least, we want to recognize, obviously, that there is a lot of work for Members and Members of this House with the will to deal with content. But with the criteria of the Constituent CUP, if we do not address two fundamental questions, there will be no in-depth action on sanitation. And these are: reversal: not only do they mark percentages of reversal in relation to a given area, but at the conjunction of public sanitation; and the second is the recovery of public management: not ownership, but management. And, one last question, beyond the fact that this group doesn't have a ball to know if that which it has granted was already decided before the wave, what we do know very clearly is that it is the fruit of the wave that there was-there were agreements said you passed. Without the vagueness, obviously, you said that we had not met or did not agree with the call that had been made by some trade union organizations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Mr. Rodriguez, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.68.0	Thank you, President. I believe that if there is any issue on which the last few years in this Parliament there has been repeated and repeated unanimity, it is in relation to the importance that primary care has for the entire Catalan public health system. And, in this sense, very many initiatives have already been adopted in order to strengthen the primary care system and, above all, to recover the situation that at a certain time had reached primary care and that it was necessary to weaken for the causes that we all know. I can't help but express a certain surprise because I'm telling you that many of the things that happened last week were things that the government was already doing. I don't understand, if the government was already doing all these things, like in the past, I think it's full, there's had to be calls and there's had to be motions, and, in the committees, there's had to be proposals for a resolution around primary care. We are also of the opinion that, in fact, the wave that took place a few weeks ago was the trigger because, in the end, the government adopted measures or as minimum measures. Then we'll see if they're overruns. And in this sense, man, I would also preach to them that they do not shift responsibility for the government's inaction to the rest of the opposition. Therefore, our group, in this sense, and maintaining the line we have maintained on other occasions, will vote favorably on this motion making a small and simple warning: it is not only a matter of the assumption of primary care tending to 25_percent of the assumption in salvation, but rather that the government prioritizes the Department of Health and the assumption of salvation because it grows in a sufficient and necessary way, not only to improve primary care, but to address all the other deficiencies that Catalan public health has at these times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.69.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now, to pronounce on the papers, has the word, again, the lady deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.70.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, thank the contributions, the reviews and the ease with respect to the transactions. Before Mrs Espigares said so: we are able to work and work well, in the Health Committee; we hope that they will also be in the department. I turn back Mr. Guinó's words, and I would answer him with his own words: negotiation in the parliamentary sphere of the General Courts all those things that are beneficial for the citizenry. I think I answered it exactly with the same words. I think that's how we're supposed to go. In any case, the motion backs the agreement reached with the professionals after the wave, but it also backs – and it seems to me that Congressman Rodriguez gave it to me a moment ago – a lot of agreements from this Parliament and the Health Commission that have been approved with reference to primary care and that the Government has not completed. All the way back, the young lady... I know it's long and complete, but in any case I'm also going back a few points that are a literal of the Enapisc and that at some point they've been working, and I don't want to hear that they want to work the Councillor Comín, but things sometimes change and then there are variations. In any case, it's not all about the vagueness, but the vagueness may have to reflect that we had reached a point where primary care had no choice but to take a measure as it did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. Meanwhile, any groups call for a separate vote? [[Vidal Aragonese Chicharro asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Aragonese?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.72.0	Yes, President. For a separate vote on points 1, 3, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.73.0	All of them separated or in a block?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.74.0	They're all separated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.75.0	Okay. Any more petitions? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.76.0	To ask for separate vote also from point 2a and 4, which for us could go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.77.0	All right. If there is no separate motion for a vote more, we shall proceed to vote on the motion. We will vote first on point 1, point 3, point 2a and 4 together, point 5, point 6 and the rest of the vote. Yeah? [[Pause.]] We vote, therefore, on point 1. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously, namely, 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Now we're going to vote on 2 bis and 4 – 2 bis and 4 –, I've been told they can vote together, huh? [[Pause.]] 2 bis and 4. The vote begins. Points 2a and 4 have been approved by 64 votes in favour, 61 against, 4 abstentions and 1 MEP who has not voted. Let's now vote point 3 – point 3. The vote begins... [[Widow's remorse.]] It's clear – it's clear. Now... I hadn't started the vote. The vote begins. Point 3 of the motion was approved by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on point 5; point 5 of the motion. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 125 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 125 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 125 votes in favour. [[applause]] against 4 abstentions. We suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.78.0	Good afternoon, let's resume the plenary. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the civil service]] [[302-00035/12]] The next item is the motion following the question to the Government on public service, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. In order to expose her, the honourable Member, Alicia Romero, has the word. When you want...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.79.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, deputies and deputies, well, on November 29th, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Forward made an inquiry to the Government on a subject that seemed and continues to be very important to us, which is the return, the recovery of the rights suspected and subservient to the public functioning from the year 2012, in which you know that the Generality and that Government in concrete was the camp in the retail, supporting the public employees three payments: that of 2012, 2013 and 2014; the two last ones still without returning. We made that inquiry, above all to deal with this and some others, linked to the stabilization of the seedlings, which is a matter of concern to us. And our young lady went over this, part about the return of the payments, which I'm going to talk about now, because it's true that there was an agreement on Tuesday, and I think it has a clear influence on this young man. And the second part, which has to do with the stability of the seedlings. There is a more general element, which is the selected processes that are pending, but then we want to make an impact on two collections, which we believe are under-privileged – or in any case, to say the least – for the Generality. One is that of the environment, which we believe, by its specificity, it would be useful for us to assess this element when we pass their oppositions. Because if we say that climate change and the environment are so important to the future of the planet, we believe that it is not possible, in fact, to contract people with a generic formation to make a pocket so important and so concrete. And the same with the social workers, who two years ago adopted here a resolution, in the Parliament, that has not been fulfilled, and that we demanded that he be contracted or that he be a contest-opposition for these profiles, taking into account the merits. Because many of them – above all they are women of a certain age – already carry more than twenty years to public office and it seems to us that if they are interns it is not because of them, but because of the fact that no seats have been called. And, therefore, it is necessary to stabilize them by complimenting that resolution of the Parliament and not by sorting out those that interest us but by completing them all, which is what this Parliament should do. Anyway, this is part of it. The other, as I said, is the return of payments. It is true that on Tuesday there was-there was an agreement between the travel committee and the labor authority. Not until 31 December, when the Civil Service Bureau makes a proposal to the union to return payments in eight years, until 2026. This generates an important crisis between the unions and the Government of the Generalitat, which led them, on November 19, to call the wave for the 12th of December. They spend a lot of days and we've always been with the counselor who didn't make a call to the union, who didn't try to mediate, intercede to eliminate or avoid that gap and to try to find a solution better than the one that had been set that October 31st. It's not until the 3rd of December that they get the first call from the labor authority to talk about the minimum services. And it's not until the 10th of September, a week later, when they meet to talk, for the first time, about a compromise proposal to try to avoid that vagueness, which would be the first wave of public employees in many years. And so, so, it's like... it's going to stretch the calendar a lot to try to come to an agreement. An agreement which, it is true, came to an end on the Sunday, the 11th. Here, I would like to say one thing, because the motion is being modified to try to get this Parliament to accept that agreement and that this Parliament also reinforces what was signed the other day. But I'd like to say a couple of things: Councilman Puignero said here, many times, in this Faristol, that if you can't pay the payments, despite the government's will, it was because of the Government of the State, Minister Batet and the spending rule. So look, the fifth point of this agreement, says the following, and I'll read it to you: "The law of assumptions projects include the provisions necessary for the realization of this agreement. And the presuppositional parties corresponding to the return of amounts equivalent to extraordinary payments. They are involved, with priority character, in the mark of the compliment of the rule of expenditure. Now it seems that yes, which the government can prioritize, I am completing the expenditure rule. And it just doesn't seem like it could have been like this since the past few months. That is to say, I don't know whether to congratulate you, Mr. Puignero, or Minister Batet, because if before it was his fault that he is not returning, now it must be thanks to her that we return them. So, listen to me, they either fooled us or they didn't tell us the whole truth, or they pissed off our loss, not to mention that you didn't find a solution that is there, that it's priority at the expense, the return of payments. That's what they do, and that's what this deal says. So I congratulate you on coming to ours and giving us reason and not always blaming others, without holding them responsible for one thing in which you have the obligation, responsibility and also the solution, which is that, in your own assumptions, you prioritize it. And it's more: say that if you don't approve the assumptions and we go to prorogations, they'll also look for solutions to get him back. To me, the question that remains for me is: why, in this presuppositional extension of 2018, did they not know how to find that 10_per_cent that was committed to signing the previous year? In any case, we'll keep talking about the reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.80.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The first place and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group is to present the papers presented by Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.81.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, very good afternoons to everyone. As the Member of the Socialist Party has explained, today you bring us to debate and vote a motion that covers various aspects, various areas of improvement and demands of the public service and it is a motion to which Citizens will give their favorable support, without any cracks. For two reasons, for the understanding that it is necessary, and for the understanding, moreover, that it is timely. It is necessary, as I have told you, because we understand that it addresses problems that are already beginning to be chronicled in the public service and that also address issues that point to the mismanagement of your Government in this regard. First of all, as you have explained extensively, and as the first two points point out, we believe that it is appropriate, that, if a trade union agreement has been established for the return of wages, we can also shield it from here, from this Parliament, although you, well, have already shown that sometimes you do not pay much attention to parliamentary resolutions. But we also understand that it is important that they be collected, and that other public service issues be addressed, such as the restitution and extension of other rights. We understand that the issue of pay has been the theme that has captured the great media attention, but we cannot forget that while you were taking Catalonia to the abyss of the process, while you were cutting in health, while you were cutting in education, while you were cutting in social policies, you have also cut in the rights of public workers. And finally, as the spokesman for the Socialist Party also said, the motion sets out the need to stabilize the civil service staff. And in this regard, if we may, we have wanted to complete or improve the motion with two amendments, which sought, first of all, that those places which were announced years ago and have not been convened, are called; and that new ones are called. As we have reported on several occasions, there is a high percentage of interineration; there is a high percentage of temporality and the issue of stabilising staffing is one of the major challenges facing the public service, and more so considering that future retirements are near, and that it is an issue that we must address. We had tabled a third amendment, which claimed another right which we have repeatedly repeated, which we consider to be fundamental, which is the right of all public workers to work in a space free of political symbolism, and to work outside and away from the political pressures they may receive, as has been the case with this Government. An amendment which we..., which unfortunately the Socialist Party has rejected, but which we believe is fundamental if we talk about rights, and more when we have seen how it was warned by this government that officials who did not follow political instructions would suffer; more when we have seen how they are called to political acts using the megaphony of public buildings, or as we saw last week, with the great occurrence here, of the Councillor, of 6 December and 12 October, that whoever wants to come to work, can come to work. To point out those who come to work, so that you can continue with your lists of good and bad. Well, we regret that the Socialist Party wanted to whitewash the government in this regard, and we regret that it did not accept this amendment. Just as we regret, too, that the Government of Spain does not act in the face of the systematic violation of rights we suffer in Catalonia. However, as we have said, we reiterate our vote in favour of agreeing on everything else. We will vote in favour of all the points that have been incorporated into the motion, because we understand the one we need, and for what we have put forward, and in due course. Because we believe that remembering everything that is to be improved in the public service is timely and is a cure of humility of this government that celebrated..., the other day they congratulated themselves here for the agreement reached. Remember that the agreement you have reached is only to restore to the workers what you have taken away from them. And it is an agreement that, with its record of non-compliance with agreements and resolutions, we are going to quarantine and we are not going to give it validity until the last euro is on the account of the last public worker in Catalonia. Mr Puignero, you, after insulting and ignoring public workers, did this tweet, in which you said that ‘this image, the signing of the agreement, was proof that, managing well needs a lot of work and little noise. Well, a lot of work and little noise is not what you have done. Much work and little noise is what the public workers of Catalonia have done that, while you cut them rights, they maintained dignity and the institution and our state of well-being. And its management, far from being good, we consider it harmful. The other day I was told by a representative of the public service who, in the end, the strike, the call for a strike, is the failure of dialogue. Well, I think you have avoided disaster, in discount time, but what you have not avoided is a failure. Because to fail, for a long time you have failed and for trial, all the protests we have seen in recent weeks. When they predicted that we were going to have a hot autumn, I don't think they were going in this direction, but we had an autumn with demonstrations and protests almost every week. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] against his Government, in which they requested his resignation, and the resignation of Mr. Torra. I'm finishing up, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.82.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.83.0	So, gentlemen of the Government, counselor, let go of Twitter triumphalisms, let go of congratulations, and remember that, to date, on December 13, 2018, you still owe public workers two pay, and a pool of rights that you have cut them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.84.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.85.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselling, advisers, deputies, deputies, workers and workers of Parliament, the fact is that this young man, when there was the previous question, in the previous plenary, had different perspectives. Finally, we find ourselves today with an agreement, with a vacancy call, but above all, what is important, with a vacancy call from an agreement on the mark of the vacancy committee, with a lot of good work on the part of the mediation of the Department of Work and also – and very important – with the recovery of the dialog and, hopefully, the climate of trust between all parties. We, who already know about this question that we have been debating, practically to all the spaces we have in this Parliament, have done so in this House, but we have also done so in the various committees, we have always shown the confidence that the agreement would arrive. We were convinced that this agreement would be possible because, without this agreement, it was impossible to move forward. And without this agreement, the two parts came out badly damaged. And, finally, the deal came. He arrived on Tuesday, arrived – certainly – at a later time, but finally he arrived. And I think this has to be a cause to congratulate us, but it also has to be a cause for reflection. It has to serve us to know that, in the end, when there is social strife, there is also a governmental response, but it also has to serve us because the governmental response has to come, even though there is no social struggle. And that's a good reflection... that we're in the fem and that we're in the folds and that we're in the folds. In fact, it has changed both the screenplay and the motion that was presented initially, so logically, it has changed radically, because it has to be adapted to the new agreement to which it arrived on Tuesday. An agreement that provides that, in the first quarter of 2019, the payment of the 10_per_cent of the outstanding 2013 payment will be effective; that the rest of the year will be effective the remaining 30_per_cent; always conditions the Law of Presumptions. And if you don't get to this law of assumptions, which I'm convinced, too, that will come, if you don't get to this law of assumptions, you'd have to look, you'd have to go back to yours and look for some other alternative formula. I, in the succession years, the year 2020, make the payment of the remaining 60_per_cent of the 2013 pay; 2021, 55_per_cent of the 2014 pay, and 2022 would be effective 45_per_cent of the 2014 pay. Now, with a clause, within this agreement, that recognizes that in the following assumptions, therefore, the assumptions in which close to making the 201.4 pay effective will be analyzed if it is possible to pay it full year 2021 or if we have to go until 2022 and pay this 45_per_cent. But, on the other hand, and for us very important: even though this is already gathered in this motion and, therefore, the motion later adapts to the agreement reached, it is also very important to bear in mind that we find ourselves before a scenes of confidence recovery, and this shows that this agreement will have to be ratified at the general table to be convened for the coming week, but it also shows that the first half of the month of generation will have to restate all parts in order to also talk about the reconciliation of work and family life and other labour relations measures that affect public function. And that's good; it's good that we keep this dialog, it's good that we're sitting on the table and it's good that we get to the agreements. Because we're here to make the deal. And there are two elements of this young man that I particularly like, and I like him very much. One is that of the social workers, to whom I take advantage to greet from this Faristol, who accompany us today and who are with us, because today we approve, and I hope that it is by unanimity, point 5a, which was precisely destined to give compliments to their claims. And then there's point 5.b; point 5.b refers to the environment, where we haven't agreed, but this group will vote for forbearance and therefore make it easier for it to approve. Finally, just a couple of dice, because I think it's just as well that we say it. Since 2010, the number of civil servants in Catalonia has increased by 5.9_per_cent. But not only that, but also increased in important areas, such as sanitation, such as teaching– in non-university teachers–, police officers or justice workers; respectively, a 17.1_per_cent, a 9.1_per_cent, a 5.1_per_cent and a 4.7_per_cent. They're good ones. We're working, we're still working, and this government is going to keep moving. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.86.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Congresswoman Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.87.0	Good afternoon, president, union representatives, the social workers who accompany us... I would like to make a point that today we see again with the Constitutional Court it is easier to decide on an adoption of a precautionary measure, to deny it, when it affects limiting the political rights of people who have been democratically elected for the citizens of Catalonia, and, on the other hand, by delaying decisions on the part of the Constitutional Court when it comes to requests for help from people who are in unfair prison and, on top of that, four people who are out of the family. She's a real shame. [[Greetings.]] That said, today we have to discuss this young man. The truth is that she's a young man who, as Congresswoman Alicia Romero and the Citizen's Congressman are well aware, we've traded, haven't we? If fifteen days ago, therefore, we were here and spoke of public office, we voted in favour of the Councillor's appearance in the Digital Policy Commission, we voted in favour of the Public Administration Secretariat's appearance, we voted absolutely in favour, Junts per Catalunya, of any appearance to give explanations of what had been done in the matter of public office, right? The truth is, it came to an agreement, it came to it on the 12th, and, man, two weeks ago, it seemed like the council didn't want to negotiate. I believe that from the principle it was said, both on the part of the secretary of public administration and on the part of the councillor, that we did not get up from the negotiating table, that there was a first proposal that was insufficient on the part of the unions and that in their legitimate exercise of the rights, therefore, they continued to negotiate. And so... I remember very well, and today I want to put it in value, a phrase that the counselor said, in the sense that we, the councillor, would come to that agreement that could actually be fulfilled, right? That's what the opposition was asking about, so, those agreements that were made two years ago and couldn't or couldn't be done. Therefore, we value this agreement very positively. There has been an effort on the part of the unions, and also on the part of the council, to get there, and I think, therefore, that it is not to be used politically when on the part of the council it recognizes this willingness to negotiate and agree in this area. I think it's a positive agreement, because it's going to work; it's gone, isn't it? I would like to remind you, since there are social workers, that there is a concrete transaction that allows them, in their exercise, to those people who are interns and who carry three years of developing their pocket and, therefore, have an acquaintance. [[Funnel veils]] – or more, I already know, already –..., this positive assessment, therefore, to be able to introduce this merit, this experience in the exercise..., from access to these places in the terms that the law establishes. But today I would also like to remind you that when we talk about this agreement we are talking about an agreement that affects more than two hundred and a thousand people, because when we talk about the public sector, it is not just the people who work at the General Administration, but it is a lot more involved. Remember, therefore, that this agreement, indeed, is not? , what it does is allow the return of extraordinary payments in four years, in different percentages, and also put into value what we have already said two weeks ago, that it was that they had reached six expected agreements, if expected agreements with the council and with the unions, to return these rights that have recognized all those people working in the public service. Therefore, these external payments will be returned between 2013 and 2014. They also agreed to activate the stability plan to eradicate it, didn't they? , this precarious work within three years, also in accordance with European regulations and directives and the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, so as to move from a 40_percent of the precariousness to an 8_percent. There are also measures, as we say here, with reference to the social workers sector. Also in the first fortnight of the month of generation, the General Table of Negotiation of Public Workers was used, so as to begin to negotiate even those serrells that are lacking in relation to social, labor and flexibility measures and reconciliation of work and family life. Therefore, we are content with these transactions, we are content that they are a plan and an agreement and a motion that is made to return these extraordinary payments, and we will continue to believe in the negotiating capacity of the Councillor and the Councillor and the Vice-President when they tell us, therefore, that there is a conflict, that they do not get up from the negotiating table and that they will continue working to reach an agreement with the unions that, effectively, can be completed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.88.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.89.0	That's ridiculous! - That's ridiculous! They carry weeks – weeks – repeating the stutter that it is not possible, that it is not possible to do, that if the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, that if we help them with the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, that it was the Law of Presuppositional Enabling that you had made..., and in the end it is possible, that it was the one we gave and that it was the one that gave the unions. I, in fact, or so I think you, as a Public Service advisor, have made a spectacular ridiculous. Because, on account of being on the side of your workers and workers – I repeat, your workers and workers – more than 300,000 workers and workers, in this case, of the Generality, you have been dedicated, week after week, to saying that it is not possible. I invite him to review the video of his appearance just a week ago. Or else, they've done all the opposite of what you said at the show. Therefore, or else, congratulations; if you welcome the agreement! But in the end, it was an agreement that weighed on him. I say so, yes, yes, there was an agreement... or so, I already know you've taken the picture; sometimes he likes to put more pictures of the clouds, of the digital republic, huh? But there was one... in this case you came out of the picture. But the deal was still yours. And so, well, I don't think we should celebrate anything, but, in this case, give thanks to the workers and workers of the Generality, who have put more responsibility there than you. They put much more responsibility than you, because they ended up accepting the agreement that it wasn't what they initially wanted, but they ended up twisting his arm. Because in the end his initial proposal of eight years was absolutely unworthy, a provocation, and therefore the vague had the whole sense of the world. Therefore, I repeat it: or so, sometimes I have seen a General Councillor do the ridiculous thing that you did in these weeks, because at the end his word I don't know what's going on, because, at the end, it's done all the opposite of what I've been doing for weeks! He told me straight! , apart from denying the workers, who have denied them sometimes and sometimes. I also say to him: this agreement has not resolved his, in this case, a bad relationship with public workers. You've got a lot of work to do. Because I already know that this public service thing is ours. I suppose they've been poaching him, because, well, I didn't know where he was going... You know, this is about the labor rights and the workers and the workers, so it makes us sure, and they said, "Well, how do you wear digital policies, so we also have a public function. But I repeat it: you are the public office advisor, you have a lot of work to do. Recover the dialog; you have an opportunity from the chord. So, work. [[Widow's remorse.]] And then I'm also saying, I'm not surprised that you're making us, because I also believe that the president is also making us workers. To me it seems incredible that the President of the Generalitat, with a vague summons, has not been able to meet the representatives of the workers and public workers; moreover, even more so, even at the moment when he closes an agreement, which closes a good agreement. Are your workers, 300,000 workers and public workers, and have you been unable to secure without the unions, without the workers' representatives and public workers? I believe, I sincerely say, that it is compatible, and I have told you several times, to denounce repression in this case, to denounce the situation of imprisoned advisers and advisers, also with day-to-day policies. And I have the feeling to you that these priorities are our fans, our fans the rights of workers and workers, when they are their workers and workers. To me it seems incredible that in the end we have, as this morning in this case the Neus Tomàs, who is director of the Journal..., or still, is the absent president; he is absolutely absent, the president of the Generality. In any case, it seems incredible to me that this president of the Generality does not defend the rights of workers and workers. And, look, I'm also saying, we'll be vigilant, with your agreement. I think they've made a good deal, but in the end we'll also have to see how much your word is and how much your signature is, huh? I think that for a lot of these days we've kept them, that's true. We have absolutely told you that your signature or your word did not include the payment of 10_percent of the 2013 pay that you signed. In any case, we also give it..., or continue, I think it has made a good deal, I think it has worked in the direction that it played after many months of being tiring the loss, and now we give it: we will be vigilant about what they have signed; that it does not happen again that you have now closed an agreement that amounts to 220_million euros and when the workers and the workers tend to collect the year 2019, then, when September or October arrives, they say they have no money. I hope we don't find ourselves in this situation. Because, if not, in the end, if you have not completed your word and signature, we will ask you for responsibilities. And in any case, I hope, therefore, that this is a principle, that in this case I will return to the rights of the public workers in the centre of their politics and that, therefore, no? , we opened a new stage of relationship between her council and the public workers and workers. And I hope and wish him that that's what it is and that his workers won't do to us, which is what, in my humble opinion, seems to us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.90.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is then the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. The paragraph is made by the Member of Parliament, Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.91.0	Good afternoon. First of all, if we are talking about stolen payments to civil servants and civil servants, to public workers and public workers, it is essential that we locate the origin of why we find ourselves in this situation. Sometimes we go talking and we go talking, and we don't analyze what is the context that brings us to this situation. And this context is the acquittal of the austerity policies of the troika, the acquittal on the part of the Spanish State and the subsequent acquittal, with registration of honor, of the government but the governments that followed, especially the government of Juntes per el Si, to detail everything that is right and, in this case, these stolen payments on the part of these austerity policies. And therefore, we cannot ignore this reality, we cannot ignore the consequences it has on material life and on such important achievements as are the rights of workers and workers when we talk about these issues. For what it does to the concrete question of returning payments, well, in this Parliament we have talked about it many times and we have approved various resolutions. Two months ago we approved one that would be the one that today is defending itself, that ultimately this defense is that the agreement reached between the government and some of the unions representing civil servants and civil servants is complete. We, in this sense, cannot fail to regret the lack of sovereignty and the linkage of the decisions that we are debating here, of everything that we are voting for, because in the end and in the end we see that you have no connection, that we approve and approve and here nothing happens, and, therefore, it has always been adaptable. Of course, what's agreed on in a vacancy mediation is binding and we respect it. But what we won't do is give support if, I insist, two months ago we wanted a calendar and some conditions that were different, and more considering that there have been unions, too, that they don't support this agreement. We are very clear about this and we say it many times: there will not be a fair society, there will not be a worthy country, there will not be a space where it is worth living without a strong public sector, and in the key of this strong public sector there are its workers. The struggle of the workers and the workers, the struggle in the waves of October 3 and November 8, the powerful feminist vagrant, the wave of November 29 shows us that they are the days of the struggle, and that the working class no longer gives them more credibility. I'm done. For what it does to points referring to the need to correct a historical lack for the collection of social workers and environmentalists, of course, we greet them and we will give support to this lack. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.92.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia is the turn of Deputy Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.93.0	Someone's left a disease. [[Pause.]] So I'm leaving. [[Rialles. Greetings.]] They say no; so I'm leaving. [[The timer laughs. Widow's remorse.]] After you put everything in its place, huh? [[relays]] No, to point out that this young man who introduced us to the Socialist Party is a young man who is conditioned to the agreement that he arrived at the last few hours, that he arrived between the workers and the same government of the Generality. But I have to say, unfortunately, that I am very afraid that this agreement is a false step. And it's a false step because it's conditioned, and above it's conditioned in a totally unfair way, that what the government is doing is passing responsibility to opposition parties. When it is conditioned that the workers can finish collecting the payments of the year 2013 and 2014 to a possible agreement, to the approval of assumptions of the Generalitat, the one that is made, in a very clear and very simple way, is to move this responsibility, to move this pressure, to the opposition party because it adopts assumptions where, obviously, a party that is destined to a fully justified fission like the one we are laying down, but that many others, like us at least, seem to us to be completely unacceptable and completely inexhaustible. Therefore, we believe, as I say, that this agreement is not flawed, and that unfortunately it will not be able to last. I would also like to convey a reflection, because each o is answered to itself, and so is the government. How is it possible that the Generalitat of Catalonia, the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, is the only Administration that has not returned the payments to work? How is it possible – I don't know if there's any more left, maybe there's some more left – but, as is possible, counselor, that the joints have returned you pay them back? How is it possible, counselor, that the autonomous communities have returned the payments? And, on the other hand, the Government of Catalonia has not done so. So, these are some questions that we... I think they show the degree of mismanagement that the Government of the Generality is going through. And then there's another aspect, and it's that this agreement doesn't leave behind a reality, and it's the social conflict in the area of public service that is living in Catalonia at these times, beyond the agreement of the last few hours. We have at these times the Squadron Mosses occupying the Interior Council and cutting the streets for work issues; we have met the teachers; we have here social workers who have been waiting for years to come to see where I'm going to work. Therefore, the reality... – and I finish, President – the reality of public service in Catalonia, unfortunately, beyond the approval of this young man, leaves much to be desired.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.94.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the paragraph the deputy, again, Alicia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.95.0	Well, very quickly. At the first part of the payment motion, we made transactions with Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra to reinforce the agreement that the unions arrived at. And in the second part I want to thank the Ciutadans Group that has incorporated some elements linked to the stability of the plants, that we have incorporated as it is and that has allowed, therefore, that – I hope – this part of the motion is approved and we can move forward. There are two proposals that were originally put forward by the Socialist Group, which was the one concerning the specificity of the environment in the opposition competitions, which was maintained as we had presented it, and which I hope today will be approved; and the other, which was that of social workers and social educators so that the merits follow the fact that it is worth at the time of making their objections, taking into account that they are interested in carrying out many years of work in the Administration, and it is not because of them, but because there have been no calls. Counselor, very quickly, I think you should take three lessons from what you've been through these past weeks. One is that you have to get back the dialog with the workers, because the agreement above the work media, and some other group said so. Clearly, you have to recover the dialog, you have to settle with the unions and you have to agree, yours, that you can explain to what has come to your work, to your negotiation and to your dialog. Two. I don't think he'll ever come here to say things that aren't, and say he couldn't pay the payments because the expense rule stopped him, because Mrs. Batet wouldn't allow it, and because we're on a presuppositional charge. Because it turns out that the agreement they have signed says that they will prioritize, according to the expenditure rule, that if there is no presumption and there is an extension they will pay or find mechanisms to pay the payments. Therefore, you are aware of what we have been doing for so many weeks. I, third, we'll be careful. That is to say, Counselor, you know that the parliamentary groups, at least the one who talks to you, will be careful, because you have not completed many agreements that you have signed, such as the one signed in 2017 on the 10_percent of the 2013 pay, which you should have already paid, and do not complete some resolutions, such as the drop in university fees. So, here we are, before you, hoping that the agreements that you signed and that I hope we approve here are complete. And his word will be the one that will be, in any case, in question. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.96.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Sánchez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.97.0	We would call for a separate vote on points 5, 6 and 7. They can go together, but separate from the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.98.0	All right. [[Jordi Albert and Knight ask to speak.]] Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.99.0	We would call for a separate vote on point 5.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.100.0	Any other separate voting petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right. We shall vote, therefore, first on points 5, 6 and 7, which I understand can be voted in bloc, eh? All right. We vote, so, the points... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Sorry, it's true, 5.b, he said, huh? Okay. So we would vote on points 5a, 6 and 7 together, yes? [[Pause.]] All right. So we vote points 5a, 6 and 7, together. The vote begins. These points are approved unanimously: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 5.b. The vote begins. Point 5.b was approved by 69 votes to 60. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was adopted by 125 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Government's external action]] [[302-00036/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the external action of the Generality, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose it has the word the deputy, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.101.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, even though in the development of the internal debate of groups that we have had from this young man we have sought, in a way that is not very fruitful, to reach agreements with all political formations, it was obvious that in the final outcome we would probably focus the action of the agreement both with Citizens and the Socialist Party; it was not random. We're talking about outside action. We're talking about a type of policy that has the competitions perfectly defined. In the same way that you have the competitions perfectly defined an assembly, a district council, a deputation. The problem we have here, where we are now, is that we have an administration that has not just heard exactly who their skills are. Therefore, we have reached agreements both with Citizens and with the Socialist Party. For example, with Ciutadans, to rectify the error of external action due to term, especially around resources, to avoid being destined to separatism and propaganda against Spain. Also with the Socialist Party to avoid, therefore, that these resources end with purpose, with concrete actions, also in the same sense that we have spoken previously of the agreement that we have reached with Ciutadans, also to develop an external action that without partisans and without less escape from the Spanish institutions arrive at agreements with the principal directors announced to the Law 16/2014, of 4 December, of the European Union. Also, in order to paralyze in an immediate way, because it is peremptori, what is the reopening of the Council of Public Diplomacy of Catalonia, the nickname "Diplocat", which has not only not served as a king, but is now being investigated for misuse of resources, not for misuse of resources. We have also been able to reach an agreement on Point 4 with a transaction with the Citizen Group to halt the process of creating future delegations, if they do not perfectly adjust to the current legality. And, finally, also in questions of transparency. Finally, we have raised a point, which I suppose and I hope I can vote for everyone, because it is a question practically a truth of those that is said of Perogrullo, that is to be able to break relations established with sectors other countries of Europe and America and to establish contacts with just the opposite. It is to say, with those countries that have European governments, regardless of their ideology, that we must bear in mind that until now they are bringing the other Italians of the extreme right, of Finland of the extreme right, of Flanders of the extreme right and some concrete group of the extreme left also anti-European, the Government of Catalonia has been unable to establish relations with anyone. Therefore, I think it is absolutely reasonable to put a motion of this natural nature in these terms. Finally, I would like to thank the will of the Ciutadans Group, the Socialist Party Group, and the rest of them, despite the fact that we did not agree, so I would also like to thank them there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.102.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.103.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Counsellor, Members and Members, in the first term, we have presented a series of papers to the motion presented by the Subgroup of the People's Party, trying to mark our political position. Because, in the background, he knows perfectly well, and, in fact, I was tacitly confessed in his intervention by Mr Fernández, who had few opportunities to prosper, in the terms with which he was set, the political position of the People's Party. Because I think it's important that we distinguish between our opposition to external action that has so far been developed by the Government of the Government of Catalonia, and also some of those that preceded it. Look, we consider that the external action of the Government of Catalonia should be sung to that which is included in the guiding principles of the Law of External Action. And, therefore, we have never just shared the vision that – not necessarily in this movement, but in others – both Ciutadans and PP had of external action, as an action intended only for economic promotion, for the attraction of investments and for commercial exchange. We believe that the external action of the Government of Catalonia went much further, not only because of the mark offered to it by the Law of External Action, but also because of the will of the same chamber that Catalonia has a role to play, so........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So, to put it this way, we distinguish what is the criticism of political management, of the political line that follows a certain government, a criticism that we make; we think that the external action of the Generality has been marked, in the past years, by a growing partisanship, by a growing sectarianism, but this does not lead us to want to close all the instruments and tools of which the Generality of Catalonia has been gifted over the years, and that in some cases they have a form, let us say, associated with civil society. They're from the different approaches. Therefore, our ideas were all about asking that the development of the external action of the Government of Catalonia was this: an external action without partyism, without any need for other institutions and following the guiding principles announced in Law 16/2014, of external action. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the points in which our discussions have taken place. They're concretely two of the four we've presented, huh? And we will vote in favour, too, of the points in which a major transfer of information by the Government to the Parliament of Catalonia is requested. It seems to us that this should be a point that should be able to reach consensus among all the political forces, or at least among all those who are in opposition, asking that the Parliament have more information about the external action of the Government of Catalonia. And then we'll vote, let's say, with all the intensity that you allow us the voting button, in favor of the point in which you ask that it is binding with the parties and movements of Europe, eh? There's a lot of agreement, let's just say. The Vlaams Belang, which originates in the Vlaams Blok, is therefore an uncomfortable company, as are other formations that have given support in a more or less explicit or more or less intense way to independent political formations or close to a secession of Catalonia respect the rest of Spain. So, we don't fall into the fallacy by association, do we? And one must know how to distinguish what a person is who at a certain time gives a reunion, from what the ideologies of each party and of each formation that supports independence mean, among which, obviously, there are also positions that we do not share, but we never fall into bankruptcy by association. But, even so, effectively, the Northern League, the Finnish Authentics, the Belang Vlaams and others that may be uncomfortable. Now, we're asking them what you're doing, too, huh? When you see them, Mr. Steve Bannon, who says, "When we go to see Vox, we also go to see the People's Party, so, well, maybe they'll come with the other sectors of trumpism, which run all over Europe trying to promote national populism, xenophobia, etc. And when they are able to make government agreements in other autonomous communities, they may also apply, together with Ciutadan's friends and friends, some sort of sanitary string principle that seems to point to their young man. Therefore, we will vote there, as they say now, "very loud, eh? We would vote very strongly for this point. But let's do it all, huh? Because these things, or we take them very seriously when they're starting, if we can allow them to start now, because they've been on for many years now, these moves, or, if not, when we want to give it up is too late, and we're all very badly off. So, please, also take note of the initiative's promoter group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.104.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Congresswoman Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.105.0	Thank you, President. I read you a excerpt from a recent ruling of the Constitutional Court, but which also contains jurisprudence from many years ago of the Constitutional Court : « The autonomous communities can act abroad but in a coordinated way in order to guarantee the objectives of the foreign policy of the Government which must be preserved in order to guarantee the objectives of the foreign policy of the Government, which must be preserved. My question is: to speak ill of Spain and its institutions, to speak all day of repression... – of the repression of the Spanish State – is that to guarantee Spain's foreign policy? Is that preserving, guaranteeing Spain's political status as an international subject? Is it not speaking ill of Spain to self - destroy us as a political subject? And I say this because I believe that, as the Member of the People's Party also said, the most essential rules are being violated, with external action, the most essential rules of the constitutional bloc, it is being violated with this external action, which is not external action, which is a violation of the Constitution, it is being violated the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia, our self-government, and, by the way, millions of euros are being embezzled. And what is – what is – the consequence? The consequence is that when Members of the opposition here ask what they are doing, they hide. And why are they hiding? Because they know that what they are doing is not clean wheat, because they know that what they are doing is not external action. And what does the Government of Spain do? Which is also rather sad, because it is not a problem of the Sánchez government, it is a problem that we have been dragging for many years. The Government of Spain has competence in international relations and foreign policy, and must also exercise that competence. And, therefore, it is up to him to do political action – he listened to it this morning –: "Cal fer acted political. Well, of course I do. And also in outer action. Why does the Government of Spain not call upon the autonomous communities to ask for explanations, to coordinate what is the external action of the State? Because the external action of the autonomous communities is also the external action of the State. Why does it not establish, why does it not have, a strategic foreign policy plan in which to set the parameters and limits that all actors engaged in the foreign action of the State, and therefore also the autonomous communities and therefore also Catalonia, must be bound and limited and have to be held accountable to who has the competence of the Government of Spain; why does it not do so? It is not a matter of ‘Oh, coming on 155, or leaving on 155, is that we should have done it many years ago, and the current Government of Spain is still in time to do so. Do it, please – do it. Look, what the Government of the Generalitat is doing is violating the Spanish Constitution, our own self-government. This also affects the essential values of the European Union. And this morning the Councillor, the new External Action Councillor, was listening to this morning, and I take this opportunity, too, to welcome them, who said, "We must be alerted, must we not? "We have to be careful with radical nationalisms. And I very much agree with you: you have to be very careful and you have to be very alert. What surprises me is that you are not afraid of yourselves. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I mean, no... what I'm surprised is that they don't find in the government, in the government you're part of now, they don't find a more radical nationalism than we currently have. Why? Because it is a nationalism, it is a government of the Generalitat that breaks, breaks the rule of law, and therefore breaks an essential value of the European Union. It is a government that certifies the democratic rights of opposition deputies rather than giving us the information we are measuring. They'd rather deny us that information. And above all, they have a president who prefers the unilateral way, which is never peaceful, the unilateral way is never peaceful, and who also breaks essential values, as I said, as is the democratic principle, respect for the rule of law, the equal rights of European citizens and, in particular, 47_million Spaniards. And that is not going anywhere, and that also endangers European values. Government of Spain, it is time to act, it is time to do political action. There is a legal basis and there is a political basis. And if you don't know what it is, ask us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.106.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and to fix his position, he has the word, first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.107.0	Good afternoon. So, despite what the PSC partner said before, we don't, we won't vote in favour of this point, no point of this young man. Because it's a young man who can't be anything more than cynical, ironic, glittering basically, or still... they have so much double morals and so much hypocrisy, the chords of this young man, that if we weren't talking about super-serious issues, they would really come out laughing. What is more, we can talk about "external error that has come to an end in the past few years in the Generality – that we could share some of the things and these mistakes, effectively, that have surely occurred, especially in some of the international relations that the Government did in the past months –... but it sees us also at the top the unhealthy insistence that the Government of the People's Party had with Gibraltar, that even after the Brexit referendum, Mr.Margallo still said that it was the best historical opportunity for Gibraltar since the 18th century. Or the resignation of the Indian ambassador, Mr Arístegui, who, together with Gomez de la Serna, received millions of euros in commissions to advise Spanish foreign companies; or Pedro Agramunt, who was charged with corrupt natural activities to favor Azerbaijan, and travelled to Syria to meet with Al-Assad. Or the highly irresponsible treatment that the People's Party Government had of the refugee crisis, and its inability to complete European agreements to embrace all those who touched on it by quota, such as the Spanish State, and not to guarantee safe lives for those people. This is the founding values of the European Union. They also talk about improving transparency in resources. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, we do agree with that. Clearly, why say it... that Popular Party to which Irene Montero, in a first motion of censure against Mariano Rajoy, enumerated, more than sixty cases of corruption? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] How do you want to talk about transparency in management, if you have been the most opaque and the most fuelled, precisely, by the lack of transparency and the commissions and the fraud to public resources? Speaking of breaking relations with other sectors: those who participate in demonstrations with other sectors, those who are willing to hold the Government of Andalusia with the support of Vox, those who will see what happens to other electoral results where Vox also has, which has or does not have the Government; those who celebrate Viktor Orbán's victory in Hungary. We remain serious and responsible, and, above all, we remain coherent. We do want to talk about the protection of human rights defenders, external action, but of the truth, of the protection of human rights defenders, with a proposal for a declaration that we have passed through the Board of Spokespersons, and that we have commented on various occasions and that you have not had the dignity to say a word of it. They do not think directly about human rights defenders, or 0.7 to international cooperation, both in Catalonia and the rest of the State. Because the strongest aspect of international cooperation in this country was during the People's Party government. That's outside action. With this external action, we can speak of an external action unit. And we can also talk about how to pressure the central government to stop selling arms to Saudi Arabia. That's why we can talk about it when they're around. We talk about legal and safe lives, we talk about ending the dead in the Mediterranean. We are in favour of transparency, we are in favour of human rights and an external action that strengthens solidarity networks against ultra-rights. But until now we have never met with the people of the People's Party; we have no doubt that we have done so from now on. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.108.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.109.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Well, we want a foreign policy of the Generality that has an active role in the international denunciation of the Spanish State and of its despotic, anti-democratic and anti-systematic violation of the Spanish State in the area of civil rights and human and political rights; as we want a foreign policy of the Generality that defends all our right to self-determination and our right to independence; because we want a foreign policy of the Generality that has an active role in the criticism and the question of the anti-social and anti-democratic drift of the European Union; because we want a foreign policy of the Generality, that we want a foreign policy of the foreign policy of the Generality that we want to defend at all times from the anti-social and anti-democratic drift of the European Union; because we want a foreign policy of the Generality, that we want to carry outside NATO and the military; because we want a foreign policy of the Generality that is based on the anti-social and anti-democratic drift of the European Union; because we want a foreign policy of the European Union, that we want a foreign policy of a foreign policy of the European Union, that we want to fight against NATO, that we want to fight against the generalism against the generalism against the foreign policy against the generalism against the military against the political against the military against NATO and military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the foreign policy against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the military against the foreign policy against the foreign policy against the foreign policy against the foreign policy against the foreign policy, because against the foreign policy against the foreign policy against the foreign policy against the foreign policy against the foreign policy, because against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the political against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the foreign against the Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.110.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Congressman Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.111.0	Thank you, President. Welcome, counselor. Mr. Fernández, that's what we've discussed a lot of times. I'll speak plainly and briefly, I could subscribe to the words of Segovia or CUP. First of all, something that seems to have been forgotten from time to time, isn't it? : the competitions in the external action of the Generality are legally trapped in the State and, thus, the fact that the Generality develops an external action constitutes a legally established scope of action. From here, for the points, he asks us: « To correct the external error due to the end in the later years based on the contempt of ours – here it should specify « ours – « institutions and the breach with the values foundations of the European Union. Not only has there not been any disdain, at least from an objective view, perhaps from a subjective view, but in any case it would be good if you believed it, but Catalonia continues to be an international reference in many areas: in the cultural, social, economic, cooperation, human rights, and in that there is much to see citizenship, in that there is much to see the associated fabric of this country, the entities of this country and also the role played by the delegations of this Government. In this band, what I think bothers you is that several institutional bodies representing us abroad are dedicated to explaining also what their vision is of what happens in Catalonia. But my question here is, what's wrong with all this? Is this not his job? Isn't that what Minister Borrell does anyway? Or does what Minister Borrell says represent interests... represent all of us, our interests, all of us citizens? Did I get Dastis, did I get Margallo? I'd say no. And when they say that what we're doing here is attacking the Spanish State or the Spanish citizenry, they're wrong. I think that, in any case, what we do is attack, denounce a state that is the Spanish State, that is the Spanish power and has nothing to do with Spanish citizenship. When asked: "Dealing all the resources in the external action programmes of the Generality to the promotion of foreign trade, the internationalization of the economy, tourism, Catalan culture..., well, that's exactly what it is that is done through the networks of sectoral offices in the economic and cultural field, but what happens is that they have left a small, very important part, that is that to you, I grow, and that you haven't posed to the young person, you don't have to be very interested, that is the whole part of the cooperation in development. Point 3 asks us: « Instantly paralyze the process of reopening the council of Public Diplomacy of Catalonia, the Diplomat. No, no, We will not only not do it, but we are determined not to do it, to prevent you from doing it. And, therefore, we are also determined to strengthen him. Point 4 asks: "Derogation of decrees passed since last June, which have allowed the re-opening of government delegations abroad, and halt the process of creating nine delegations. Ras and short: the will, and with all the right of the world, is to reopen closed delegations, strengthen Catalonia's presence in the world, serving every possible life – all. Taking into account, yes, the rationality of expenditure. If I do what I do, we will do it, and we will do it with determination. And if it doesn't look good to them, win elections, keep on forming governments, and then they do what they seem. Point 5: "Enhance transparency in the management of public resources for external action. One hundred_per_cent agree and, as I think you already know, the same advisor has asked to compare to the external committee to explain in a determined way the lines of action of his department and give the explanations that are considered relevant to the delegations and the joint external action. And point 6, which, in fact, seems like a bit of a joke and for whom you're listening from home to the law, which is: "Drive the relationships established with the other sectors of other countries and refrain from establishing contact with these extremist sectors... the outside ones alone? Not here? Don't we have to break up here? I'm saying it because... I don't know, because here the only ones who... the only ones who flirt, the only ones that are manifesting every disband, the only ones who are seeking agreement with the extreme right, with the other sectors, I'm some of this band. In any case, in the last few seconds, I did want to defend this government and the previous government, which is a government that is composed of people who believe, respect and work for human rights. I can't say the same here either. And, as an example, I wanted to put one that I could personally prove to the last legislature, when there were the tempts here in Barcelona. At that time I was in Greece, surrounded by Muslim people who lived very patiently what was going on in Barcelona, above all the recrimination that could fall on them, and I only opened the internet saw Councilman Romeva, I saw President Puigdemont, I saw Mayor Colau representing very well the majority of this citizenry and giving a unique and extraordinary institutional response, as no government to the world has done after a few moments, where they were demanaging it is that above all they did not want there to be any racism, no Islamophobia for our streets. Since the government of the world had not done so, the Government of Barcelona did it, the Councillor Romeva, of Exterior, and the President Puigdemont did it, all three in the first interventions, in the first statements and calling upon the feeling of majority of the citizens of this country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.112.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mrs Aurora Madaula's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.113.0	Thank you. Well, good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Deputies, councillor, councillor, president of the Generalitat, good late. Members of the esteemed people of Catalonia, people..., especially colleagues who follow us from Europe by internet today, good afternoon, good afternoon. Today we are debating and voting on the motion presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party on the external action of the Government of Catalonia, to which I inform you that we will vote against it. So, the confession that I was pleased to see that you defend the founding values of the European Union. I was pleased that the Secretary General of the People's Party, Mr Pablo Casado, and the spokesman of the People's Party to the European Parliament, Esteban González Pons, urged the Spanish Government to suspend the application of the Schengen Treaty when they heard the judgment of the German court in Slesvig-Holstein denying the extradition of the very honorable President Carles Puigdemont – suspending the application of the Schengen Treaty. I was pleased, because this speech aligned them totally with the Eurosceptics of the European ultra-right, of the French National Front, for example, or of the Freedom Party of Austria, the extreme right. These are connected to the extreme right that some of this bench have and with whom they want to govern in certain parts of Spain. And, yes, we rejoice... They will ask: "Why do they vote against it? So why with the ideas that Citizens and Socialists want to do..., what they present and what they want to do is destroy all the work that has been done and that is done by the Department of Foreign Affairs, and we won't allow that. This 2018, for example, is 30 years from the opening of the first office located in Tokyo d'Acción. Today there are forty offices in five continents. The main objective is far from what you say is party politics. The main objective of Action is to help Catalan businesses. Mirin, this very week a prestigious magazine, a publication of the Financial Times, fDi Magazine, has dedicated a mention in its awards, fDi Strategy Awards, to the agency of the Generality Action for its good work at the time of capturing foreign investment. The professionals who work in these offices are looking to climb..., they make efforts, climb land to identify the most interesting trading opportunities for the Catalan economy. In 2017, Catalonia's sales abroad exceeded €70,000_million, and since 2010, they have been carrying more exports to Catalonia, surpassing them, than not the investments or sales that are fan of the rest of the Spanish State. On the bright side, it is obvious that thanks are due to these Offices of Action. And, in fact, for example, for each euro invested in these offices, thirty-two euros are generated in exports and dissected in foreign investment – for example, eh? In the 40's, in the 30's that the Acto offices are carrying, more than twenty thousand projects have been carried out. You don't talk about anything like that in this young man. But, in addition, the offices of Exterior are part of a network of economic and cultural fields in which the external action of Catalonia works, such as the Ramon Llull Institute, the Catalan Agency of Tourism or the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises. They're not against anyone. No need for Spanish, no institution, no value for Spanish. But we can't say the same with what the foreign action always spays and shoots. For example, in 2014 the director of the Llull Institute reported that the CNI was controlling the acts they presented in favour of Catalan language – controlling acts of Catalan language. Or the Spanish State suspended the presentation of the free Victus to Utrecht – suspend the presentation of the free Victus. Or many other things: the pressures that the Slovak State has rejected for the visit of the very honorable President Torra. Or last week, the pressure on the president of the Galego Center in Brussels because you don't allow a Catalan music concert. Thank you very much, Mr. Palomo, for your solidarity. Is this your idea of outside action? So we'll vote against it. Because you want to preserve reality and that we don't talk about politics, that we don't talk about conflict, but we have political prisoners and these, four... and, of these policies, we have four who are in the middle of fame to denounce their conditions and the obstruction of justice. This is a shame, and we won't get tired of reporting it here and all over the world. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.114.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now Congressman Fernández again, to position himself on the issues.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.115.0	Yes, thank you, President. First give thanks to the Ciutadans Group for the agreements. Also the Socialist Party. Tell Mr. Pedret that... well, that I don't feel sorry, that nothing happens to reach agreement with the People's Party, that when he deals with the People's Party you think he deals with the common sense, and then he'll forget that he's with the People's Party and he won't know it that hard. Or else, you'll have to think he's making a deal with the common sense. The same, convey it to Mrs Segovia, who says that she agrees with all the text, but that she looks at us and finds us cynical, that it is an extraordinary parliamentary rigour; that she agrees with the text but perceives us cynical. Well, I will try not to have this perception, but your parliamentary rigour, therefore, remains in question. The most surprising intervention was that of Mrs Madaula, because she spoke of the presentation of Victus, that since the fall of the Berlin wall has not passed anything as hard to Europe as the presentation of Victus. A surprising thing. In turn, forgetting that the Spanish People's Party is part of the European People's Party, the party with the most European tradition... You have taken any manual of the European Union – I already know that this of the classic manuals does not like it – is about two people of the People's Party with the European tradition: it is about Marcelino Oreja and Loyola de Palacio. And he's talking about one of his people: Carles Gasòliba, who now says he's a botifler and a traitor. This is his vision of Europeanism. They only had one, a Europeanist, and now they say he's a botifler. At the end and the end, we only have a group that is a little cohesive, which is the CUP: they make an anti-Western speech, like Kim Jong-un, but at least they're honest. [[relays]] And he appreciates it. And, therefore, the rest does the same, but in change it is dedicated to making novels. No, so, no. Europeanists, review any manual, Mrs Madaula, we are here, European People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.116.0	Thank you. We called for a vote. We shall proceed to the vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.117.0	Yeah, to ask for a separate vote from the '1...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.118.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.119.0	... 1, 3 and 4. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.120.0	Quiet, and please! One moment, one moment, Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.121.0	One, three and four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.122.0	1, 3 and 4, en bloc?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.123.0	They can go together, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.124.0	All right. Any other petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? So we'll vote first points 1, 3 and 4, together, and then we'll vote the rest of the vote, too. We therefore vote on points 1, 3 and 4. The vote begins. Points 1, 3 and 4 have been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 72 against, 16 abstentions, and one Member who has not voted. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the struggle against masculinist rape]] [[302-00037/12]] We now turn to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the fight against masculinist rape, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word to expose it. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.125.0	Yeah, I was hoping I'd just get out, see if there'd be more or less people left than the day we did the interrogation two-quarters again, 'cause I just didn't make it clear. It's not for now, is it? Now it's going to be for some other reason. Well, then, thank you very much. I really think we're happy to be able to carry this young man. We believe that it is a young person who has managed to work well enough with the rest of the parliamentary groups, with those who have made special papers. We couldn't accept all of them, but most of them did, and if not, they did. I think we have been able to detect that there is an important will of this whole House, of all the assemblies of deputies and deputies, to advance ahead of this social emergence, this grave that is male violence. But we also believe that it is important that more than just words – we said it at the time – we decide to land..., which means this political priority that we have as parliamentary groups. We have said this: it is the street that goes before the institutions, it is the street. It is the feminist mobilizations of the feminist wave of March 8th, November 25th, that demand from the institutions that we pose in the face of this struggle, that we give them the support and collect the requests they bring years and years claiming. It is the organizations that are asking us for this institutional support, before unusual decisions of justice, such as the case of La Manada and other similar cases. It is these organizations, it is these movements that are telling us that institutional violence is our responsibility, it is the responsibility of all who are here. And that's why we believe that the Law Fights Masclist Violence, on 5th of 2008, is a great tool, but it's a tool that needs to be improved. That's why we think we need to replace ourselves with parliamentary groups to make this better. We propose that the reform of this law involve institutional violence; that we eradicate revictimization; that we set ourselves up to work to make a proper presuppositional calculation that is used to deploy it to its full potential, and that we allocate the resources needed to improve those aspects that the entities and movements that have made the assessment of this law have proposed and recommended and that we were able to see to the Equality Commission. But we did say: we would not accept drafts and we would not agree to stick to good words and intentions. That's why our young man was carrying concrete presuppositional commitments, carrying concrete advances. Ms. Artadi, in her response to our inquiry, said that she was delighted that we were conditioned to support the assumptions of the policies of women, the policies of struggle against male violence. You yourself recognized that the assumption you have made so far has been limited; that it is very difficult, even for the Català de los Dones Institute, to see who are the parties that are destined, and at the same time you have received 12.8 million euros from the State to fight against these masculist rapes. That is why we ask that we actually use and use this motion and vote in favour, the groups of the Government, of those proposals that demand a concrete reversal, that use this motion to see Mr Aragonès..., to band that we also go to see him, to demand it and to say to him: "Look, the Parliament says that you have to increase the budget of the Catalan Institute of the Dona, as at least in 4_millions, that you have to duplicate the name of ICES in 2019. Because it's not that it's... "Hey! It's a lot of time. It's just that we're very busy, it's that they're supposed to be more than twenty, and they're only eight. Therefore, as a minimum they must be doubled to ensure better attention and better distribution of territorial resources. We also believe that we can invest – and we have been able to agree – in making a presuppositionary program – in gathering the proposal that they have made to us – which actually makes all departments align with what the strategic plan of fighting violence must be. We note the importance of the participation of social organizations. And the truth is, quite clearly: we will not contemplate in any case the support of assumptions that do not place a sufficient presupposition in the struggle against the masculinist rapes. We've figured this out in 42 million. It's not a maximum bet, it's a minimum bet; we think it's the least we need to deal with this masculinist rape platoon, and we expect that to count on the government groups, who have given us support in one of the transactions, and not in others. We have not been able to accept the proposals proposed for the People's Party, because, among others, they called for the removal of the adjective of "masclist from violence suffered by children and children; we cannot accept this. Nor can we accept the exclusion of movements and organizations from the elaboration of policies that comply with male violence. Finally, I would like to say, I want to ask the table here in voice that we withdraw from the motion point number 11, which refers to the activists of Sant Cugat who are in lawsuits, precisely in order not to do something that can go against their defense strategy. So we'll withdraw this agreement. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.126.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, in the first place, the deputy Beatriz Silva, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.127.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. We are here today to talk about macho violence, an issue that has become one of the main concerns of the citizenry but which, however, has not been among the political priorities of Catalonia in recent years. Since 2010, investment in women's policies has been cut by 31_per_cent. This has resulted in cuts in the reception and recovery services for victims of macho violence, but also in the specialized care services, the CIEs, which are the ones who have to work on the recovery of women who have been victims. To questions put by my parliamentary group, we were informed that in all of Catalonia there are only eight of these services, where fifty_and nine professionals work; only fifty_and nine professionals for all of Catalonia. The specialized care service of Sant Feliu de Llobregat has to cater, for example, with eight professionals to a population of 806,000 inhabitants. It seems to us that the least we can aspire to is what this motion proposes: doubling the number of CIEs. We were also informed that the National Commission for a Coordinated Intervention against Machist Violence, the body that has to coordinate the whole fight against this scourge in Catalonia, had met only three times in 2017. From September 2017 until September 2018 he never met; a whole year without meeting. This at the same time as the latest survey on macho violence reveals that 64_per_cent of Catalan women have been victims at some point in their life of macho violence and 17.6_per_cent during the last year consulted, which was 2016. The National Commission for Coordinated Intervention against Macho Violence also has the task of setting up working groups that are key to addressing the different types of violence, but since these groups do not meet they do not work or simply do not exist. For example, the working group on addressing sexual violence took five years to launch. The working group on dealing with sexist violence in the workplace has not yet been set up. The working group on dealing with trafficking in girls and women for the purpose of sexual exploitation was established, but then closed. How is it explained that at a time when the various police entities and bodies tell us that Catalonia is the epicenter of a high level of trafficking and trafficking in women, we do not have to operate the working group that has to coordinate this whole issue? One of the latest reports of the Institut Català de les Dones states that the network of care and recovery caters only to 11_percent of the women who are estimated to be victims of macho violence in Catalonia. This means that nine_of_each_ten victims is left out of any kind of attention. We will support most of this motion, because we believe that it is necessary to strengthen all initiatives aimed at providing professional and material resources to combat macho violence. We have tabled an amendment that has been negotiated with the Catalonia Group in Comú Puermes so that the 12,8_million_euros that Catalonia has already received from the State Government to deploy the measures of the State Pact against Gender Violence, but also the 4,26_millions that have entered in the coming days, are used to put in place as a priority the comprehensive forensic assessment units. These units are a key tool for measuring the risk of women victims of sexist violence and deciding on precautionary measures, but also for reducing the risk of the daughters and children of the aggressors; they are indispensable tools to prevent murder. Catalonia is the territory where the least protection orders are granted, despite the fact that 27_percent of the women killed in recent years had filed a previous complaint. That is why it is urgent to deploy the comprehensive forensic assessment units. The State Pact against Gender Violence states that by September 2019 they should all be working. This means that we only have nine months to make reality. And we have the money to do that, thanks to this extraordinary injection of resources of more than 17_million_de_euro, which represent – and I would like to underline this – almost twice the budget that the Government of the Generalitat had planned to eradicate macho violence in Catalonia in all 2018. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.128.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Congresswoman Andrea Levy. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Okay. So that's how he's gonna play them on the back of the unsaid groups. I'm sorry, I didn't have a point. Let's move on, then, to the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. I've got the word Mrs. Naomi's deputy on the street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.129.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Susanna Segovia for her willingness to accept our amendments and to announce that we will vote in favour of the whole motion. On the one hand, we are grateful that our amendment has been incorporated to draw up specific labour integration plans for victims of sexist violence, because for Citizens it is important to point out and repair the economic aspect of inequality and violence against women. Violence socially isolates the victims. The subjection of women to men is intended to control them and their contacts with the world outside the home; it reduces the quality of life of women and their social skills; it reduces their ability to participate in activities outside the home, including the possibility of having an income. This makes it difficult for these women to access the labour market and is less likely to be able to achieve economic autonomy and exercise their rights as citizens. It is therefore important to help them and accompany them with personalized itineraries in guidance, training and retraining. We are also grateful that our amendment has been accepted to recognize the invisible victims of gender-based violence in therapeutic care, follow-up and intervention. Because sexist violence, in order to submit to its central objective, which is women, extends to other people, to harm them – to children, to their family, to their friends, to their new partners – and we cannot leave these people unprotected, who are also victims and who are not being included in the statistics because they do not have a sentimental bond with the executioner. Behind each case, there is a father, a mother, a sister, a brother who are also victims, and suffer that violence that will accompany them as a shadow for the rest of their lives. On the other hand, we have reached a compromise, at the point where we are talking about the trade union of weeds, so that the expert person who collects and gives specialized response to violations of women's rights is not a person of free designation. For us this was very important, because 35,1_per_cent of the syndic's staff is contingent personnel, more than a third of its staff is assigned to a finger, there are twenty-seven people, and we believe that this is a fraud of law, and we appreciate the will of the deputy Segovia to reach an agreement, because we did not want to contribute to further precariousing that staff, and we believe that the person responsible for ensuring these rights must be a career official who cannot be appointed or dismissed at the syndic's will. When I was reviewing the motion, specifically at the point where it talks about the formation of police forces, I remembered a very beautiful project that was a pioneer in this country, and it was the first men's association against gender-based violence that took place in Spain, which was born here in Catalonia, specifically from a group of local police officers of the Badalona Urban Guard almost twenty years ago. And I want to thank one of them for being here today among the public. Thank you, José Maria, for coming. These police officers were intended to protect the victims and enforce restraining orders in that city, and at that time they did not receive any form of training. And there, according to their own words, they discovered a world of terror, they lived in the first person the human drama of the victims. They say they'll never forget the children's faces. And they realized that they lacked tools to carry out their work, and they organized themselves. And with the experience they acquired and their eagerness to give, therefore, steps later, they ended up founding an association, with a network of psychologists, educators, did awareness workshops in schools, promoted actions in support of the victims, promoted the project of the Xarxa de Municipis Lliures de Violència de Genère, and obtained a network of more than three hundred partners between women and men, and received awards from many entities and even from the Institut Català de la Dona. The numbers of murdered women are really terrifying, and the other violence, the silent, the one that does not jump into the media, is also terrible, and although social awareness has increased, in recent years, deaths continue to continue. Violence against women is not just a problem for women, it is a human rights issue, and the human rights of women are no one's property, but concern us all. Therefore, we must spare no effort to put an end to this scourge, to combat the causes of inequality between women and men, and we cannot achieve this if we fail to involve the other half of society. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.130.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Congresswoman Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.131.0	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by congratulating the promoter group of this young man, first for the quality, I believe, of the young man, because he has allowed us to work deeply on a subject that I think is of concern to all this hemicycle, and then for the gain to work with the team. I think even with different Members in the end it was almost a work table to try to work on a subject that I think concerns us all. I would take a little reference to point 4, when we approve or accept the message, and we are talking about that in the first quarter of 2019 the second Comprehensive Intervention Program against Masclist Violence 2019-2022 will be approved. Therefore, she already shows that the Government is working on this line and that this comprehensive approach is really what we have on the table, with the guarantee, in addition, of the participation of expert social movements and entities, that it is a great demand of the sector in the fight against masculinist rapes, and to give it with a presuppositional scene sufficient to guarantee all the economic and human resources necessary to implement all the measures provided for in this plan. I think it sums up a little experience of what this young man has been up against. We talked, and we felt it all the way around, about male-based violence, about this subtlety, about this chakra that's coming across us in a way that makes us reflect, how we face it. Especially because when a woman is immersed in a male-based violence process, you don't know until, often, it's too late. Because rape usually doesn't start with the punch, rape doesn't start with the buffet. Violence is an invisibility, it's a premeditated emotional chanting, it's a humiliation, it's a devaluation and, as many times we still live in a masculist mass world and in a patriarchal world, it's here where we have to start working, because sometimes it's hard to discern yet that what we're living in the first person is a fact that's not normal, because we've normalized too many images that aren't normal. As an example, we could put the women that are needed to decorate sexist advertising. That a player who has just won the gold football driver, Ada Hegerberg, the question you ask the presenter is whether he can dance twerking. Imagine if they ask Messi or a similar player the same question. May the president of the Atlétic de Madrid, the other day, tell a journalist: "I, of money, do not speak, and less with a woman. That only 5_per_cent, as given, of European companies, are presided over by women. That the 93_per_cent of technology investment in Europe is going to projects formats per men. We don't care that a girl doesn't feel safe before the street. It's this, the iniquitous of male violence. We are too used to the fact that the women who have made history have not passed into history. The struggle against masclistic rapes begins to guarantee equal rights, and here too the complicity of all of you to work on this aspect. It is also at our hands, apart from this work so deep that we have done today, also to do the same with the Law 17/2015, effective equality of men and women. How many times has a leading girl been told manaire? And how many times to a child leader? Male rapes are the tip of the iceberg. To get there, there's a mass of frozen and soaked gel under the water that starts with micromasclimate, those little details that plague our lives, and that we're not aware of, but that turn women into second-hand people. And, remember, I think it's the big picture of what we have to fight for, these micromasclisms: humiliating, demoralizing, undermining, ignoring, blaming, emotional chanting, sexist humor, controlling, sexist advertising, micromasclisms... I think any woman in this room can be recognized in any of these words. I would break a spear here: today at eight o'clock on the evening there will be a tribute to President Forcadell, the second president in all history. I'd do a reflection. Actually, everyone here is going to vote for this young man. Also, those who lived in the last legislature, in this hemisphere lived many of these expressions that I have just defined. When we heard about President Forcadell as "Carme", "you, the president of the ANC, or this feeling of mansplaining, is to say, sometimes explain someone, usually a man to a woman, in a condescending and paternalistic way. So, today, when we vote, so does this self-reflection that we must be the first to take a step forward in this struggle. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.132.0	On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mrs Montserrat Macià's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.133.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, friends who accompanied us from the guest gallery, staff of the house, very late. The masculinist violence, tell us the law we've been endowed with, is a hard violation of women's rights and a hindrance so that we can absolve full citizenship, autonomy and freedom. And it is that male violence, we know, is the most terrible expression of a structural problem, that of a patriarchal and androcentric society that normalizes discrimination and invisibles women with a clear superiority of men in all areas of vital development from which we are born. And the dice talk. 17_percent of women have suffered male violence in the past year. One_of_each_four women we've suffered some special fact of male violence gravitation. And since the mistake, we also live the worst manifestation of masculinism, which is violence against our daughters. You remembered, Mrs Segovia, dedicating her inquiry to the thirteen-year-old girl of Vilanova and the Geltrú, who died, presumably, at the hands of her eyes, as a victim more in this painfully striking case of male violence. In a society that values itself and wants with a high level of civilization and, therefore, solidarity, brotherly, free, educated and advanced, this structural problem is not to be expected. I, therefore, must overcome it. And we have to do everything we have in the abst, and more still, to get it. We have a lot of work ahead of us, and the government is acting in this direction, because yes, because for the government it is a priority to address male violence. And that's why it's pushing the national pact, that's why this pact, as Councilwoman Artadi announced, will count on a concrete assumption, with the pretence of becoming a model of consensus for this struggle. And the Strategic Platform for Gender Equality Policies 2018-2022 is also being developed. And this is an initiative that places Catalonia as a pioneer for the generation. And this without failing to enunciate, and to put into value, the good work that has been done since the Catalan Institute of Donations, coordinating with the departments of the Government and entities and associations of women. So we're on the road. We have to go a long way, but it is clear, and we agree with you, Mrs Segovia, that it is never enough until we can focus on it in the same direction. In this sense, from our parliamentary group, we welcome this motion for a tractor in the materialization of transversal measures. We have the tools to help configure the object. Cal finish implementing them, actually. And those we don't have to build, and among all of us we will. And it's in this, among all of us, that I want to put it in value and make it easier, too, with the efforts of parliamentary groups to come to terms with and deal with issues. I thought we had the tools, we had all the legal mechanisms. The law of 2008 was a pioneer, because it meant putting women in the center as subjects of right, and considering male violence as a heavy violation of their rights. We must take many actions to eradicate this ignominious social chakra. And we need more institutional coordination. The intention of our exams, at points 2, 3, 4 and 5, was to move forward in this direction. And yes, we do have resources for everything we need: the presuppositional endowment of 2019 is coordinating with the different councils and Constellera Artadi has already announced that there would be a closed presumption to address male violence. There will be an increase in resources for the coming year, however, because of my responsibility for point 6 of the motion; it has shares that we cannot assume in a budget exercise, and that is why we will abstain in points 6.b, 6.c and 6.d. We would have liked to be able to vote positively on item 10, relating to nursing staff specialized in the syndic of Greuges, and you know the interest, but the writing is contradictory with the organizational power of the syndic. That's why we're abstaining. And we'll give support later on, relating to the implementation of the units of comprehensive forensic value, even though it's best to integrate into the Office of Attention to Victims of Crime. And, finally, I want to put in value that, even though some do not like to feel it and agree to repeat it, the government governs, governs well and governs better if we had the tools and better instruments, the resources that we ourselves generate and the regulatory capacity to distribute them as we decide, for the benefit of all the citizens of Catalonia. And here they will allow me a very, very strong record, and they want to present the absences of our companies locked in preventive detention since a year ago, in vam de fam, and to the rest of prisoners and prisoners, exiles and exiles. We'll take it to the color. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.134.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy lady Natàlia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.135.0	Well, good-bye again. Since the CUP - Crida Constituent we have shown and made many proposals regarding the eradication of patriarchal violence, masculist violence, of our lives, for a simple reason, which is that we want to live, obvious question. In this sense, most of the measures proposed in this motion will be voted in favour. But we cannot also be involved in these questions or these measures of presupposition, institutional character, if we speak of male violence, which we place in the public sector's outburst. When we talk about male violence, we have to talk about who the material conditions of women's lives are, who are their relationship with life and with those material conditions. And we consider that, beyond these institutional measures, we are watching to institutionalize the feminist struggle, because one of the learnings of the approval of the 2008 law is that it was done with joint work with the collection and with the feminist movement and with the collections of women organized in the country. And this has had great consequences, very positive, to change mental marks. For example, in Catalonia the law speaks of male-based violence – not as the Spanish law, for example, or other laws in Europe, which speak of gender-based violence –, speaks of economic violence, speaks of psychological violence; there is no mention of institutional violence. That said, we understand that, while those tasks that today are not guaranteed by public servants, because they have been done with detail, because they have privatized the healing tasks, these tasks are finished by taking on the women, and this also has to do with male violence, a material violence. Because patriarchy doesn't have, doesn't live, doesn't develop or adapt to societies on its own, but it has a great ally, which is capitalism, and in this sense it is essential that we recognize it. Finally, we say so too, don't we? that the socialization of the healing tasks is essential, and we also talk about the importance of the feminist movement. Finally, he withdrew a point in which reference is made to the companies who are being retaliated for the Generality because in the general wave of March 8 they exercised their right of protest, their right of freedom and carved some railway lives. Today, due to a complaint by the Government of the Generality, they ask for a fine of 26,000 euros to exercise their right of expression and arrested to carve their lives.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.136.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.137.0	We believe that it is imperative that he be removed from this persecution. For us, eight thousand reasons to be at his side, because we want you to live...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.138.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.139.0	... and because without the feminist struggle – I finish – today the rights that have been acquired will not have them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.140.0	It is now the turn, therefore, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Mrs. Levy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.141.0	Thank you. No, to clarify. We thought that the elements that we had presented clarified the text in some expressions that we considered... so the words used caused some confusion. As this young man's object is that he comes up with the widest possible support, so we have cregued from this parliamentary group that it was best to take them out. I can't help but make this intervention without referring to the intervention of Mrs Caula, and with my hand to the heart I say, Mrs Caula, you have made reference to the terms, to the expressions that are given to the President of the Parliament; I wonder if you can look at your file companies here in Parliament, and not recriminate them for some much more grollier interventions with regard to the women who have had their own party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.142.0	It has the word now, to position itself on the exams, again the deputy Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.143.0	Well, I've got a little time and I'll go a lot. I want to thank all groups for the good will and willingness to support the different aspects that this young man has. But obviously, I will be allowed by the government groups to tell you what you have already told the inquiry: we agree on good intentions; there is no way to achieve that it is committed to resources. They had a golden opportunity right now, because with this young man, from the Català de los Dones Institute, from the councillor of Mrs Artadi, before the vice-president's councillor, to talk to Mr Aragonès, to say to him: "We need, as at least, 28_million euros in mascot rapes if we want the Commons to support our assumptions. That's right, otherwise he won't be able to stand it. It's a shock plan, it's an emergence. When they say that they can't put all these money in one year, well, they think of all the money that they've stopped putting in the last two, then, the only money that they have to do is a little cash and prioritize with the money that comes from the State, with the money that the Generality has, and make up for the women that have suffered male violence and that so far have not seen them as the Generality and its Government prioritized them at the time of doing politics and at the time of making assumptions. One thing; I would like to see that all the points of this young man can be approved unanimously, and I have the feeling that in this case, it will be the government groups that will not make it possible. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.144.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. Anyway, if we didn't get it wrong, point 11 is gone... [[Funnel veils]] The young man's. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And, now, also inform that the groups... I know they have a conscience. In any case, I'll make it clear again that at point 10 there's been an error correction of the text, huh? , which is not published but which have parliamentary groups, which have knowledge of it, go. Mrs. Caula, yes? Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.145.0	To ask for a separate vote on points 6.b, 6.c, 6.d and 10, which we could vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.146.0	All right, 6.b, 6.c, 6.d and 10, huh? All right. Any other separate voting petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] We shall therefore proceed to vote. We'll start by voting these points on 6.b, 6.c, 6.d and 10. The vote begins. These four points have been approved by 68 votes in favour, against, 61 abstentions and a Member who has not voted. [[Widow's remorse.]] Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. [[Widow's remorse. Congresswoman Susana Segovia Sánchez agrees that she has not voted. Give me the applause.]] If it's any consolation to her, Congresswoman, she's approved, too, huh? [[Rialles.]] Next, we vote on the rest of the points of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved, i.e. by 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the civil and political rights of members of the electoral union of the October 1, 2017 referendum]] [[302-00038/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the civil and political rights of the members of the electoral union of the referendum of '1 October 2017, presented by the Parliamentary Group Republicà. To expose it has the word of Congressman Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.147.0	Thank you, President. Honourable President, Councillors, Councillors, I would also like to take advantage of this initiation of the intervention to greet the members of the electoral union present today to the Chamber, Mr. Jordi Matas, Mrs. Tània Verge, Mr. Marc Marsal, Mr. Josep Pagès and Mr. Marta Alsina, as well as... [[Greetings.]] In any case, as I said in my question fifteen days ago, the repression exercised by the Government of the State has gone far beyond those who are entrepreneurs and exiles. There have been many collectors in this country who have suffered repression by the government of the State and what they say to their Justice Administration, which, in any case, is sometimes more revenge administration than anything else. Everything that smelled like October 1 was persecuted: a collection of teachers, members of the government, parliamentarians, mayors, pallassos, tweeters and we wanted to put the focus, and that is why we made this inquiry, also to the members of the electoral union. These people are accused, at these times, of a crime of disobedience and usurpation of functions. They already have a criminal procedure initiated in which they ask for two years and nine months in prison. We understand, at any time, at any time, at any time that applies any rule, criminal law is the last resort, it has to be the last element of enforcement against its citizens. So no. In the case of the Spanish State it is whenever the letter of presentation of its repressive element, in accounts of trying to search for other forms, are the charges by criminal means. Let us remember, he had already exposed it in the interrogation of fifteen days ago, first the syndics were persecuted from the point of view of the administration, with an accusation of economic sanctions and then, when this was filed by the Constitutional Court, the criminal procedure began. So, one more way of this busy race to repress everything that sounded like October 1st. We think this topic is especially hard for motius. One, first, because the action of the syndics was taken by a law of this Parliament, a law that was in force a few days ago and that, under this rule, for the Law 19/2017 of the Referendum, under the law of this law, the members of the union went along with the functions of the tight ones. This was the law that appointed them to them and, therefore, they had a mandate from this parliamentary chamber to act with complete freedom and, therefore, they had to act under these premises. We believe that it is more difficult because the long-term performance of the members of the electoral union was the one that some complained so much during those days of September 6 and 7, the function of these people was to sail for the function, for the good functioning, for the guarantee of transparency of the referendum of October 1. It was simply its function, as in any other electoral process; as in any other country that enjoys democratic rights, control and security mechanisms are established for electoral processes. They are people, people prepared; people, from the formed point of view; they are people..., they are academics and this is what was done in this parliamentary chamber: to name a sequence of people who had a recognition, who have a recognition from the academic point of view, who do not have political ties and who, therefore, were fully prepared to make this task. A task impartially and this is what we want to put in value too. It is a task that was from the academic point of view, and this is the recognition that they have enjoyed in the past few days, through various entities at European and international level. We want to set the example of the association of the United Kingdom, which represents two thousand politicians, who gave support to it; so too, the American Association of Political Science, formed by eleven thousand people, also gave support and sent a letter to Mr. Pedro Sánchez demanding that the repression against the members of the electoral union be completed, that the causes be resolved. The Canadian Association and the Quebec Society of Political Science have also made several announcements asking for the prosecution of this cause. Therefore, we believe..., and it is what we want to put on this young man, a motion of support to the members of the union; at the same time, let us say, denounce this political persecution, explain clearly that this action was based on a law, and that, therefore, from this point of view, they could act with complete peace and with complete normality. In any case, we will leave the question of the submissions to be answered. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.148.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Elisenda Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.149.0	Good afternoon, everyone. This is not a debate of the past, this is a debate of the present, about democracy or repression. Today a vote is taken on a motion to give support to the union members of '1 October, to whom a two-year and nine-month prison sentence is demanded. The Spanish State still has a long way to go to be a free state of violation of rights. And we don't say it, he said it was an Amnesty International report. The last legislative reforms that the Spanish State has made pose in peril rights such as freedom of expression, assembly, association, but also economic, social and cultural rights. There have been political prisoners in Catalonia; drawings of persons threatened by the Supreme Court, with drawings of years of imprisonment, and many more with criminal cases opened for October 1, as is the case of members of the Electoral Union of October 1. It is probably the first time in the history of the European Union that politicians and lawyers will face prison sentences. These members of the Electoral Union were chosen for this Parliament. This is a situation that, we think and defend what we are defending in this Parliament, I am convinced that everyone believes that we are moving from a political solution to a conflict that is political, and therefore it is necessary that we are all at the height of our lives. October 1, 2017 meant a day before and after in the history of our country, it was the day when Catalans and Catalans, in the eyes of the world, won our right to decide and build our future. But it's been more than a year, and it would be worth a proper analysis to make progress on a majority path. We have the opportunity to assume that October 1st expressed two great consensuss: for one band, it demonstrated the unity of many people, able to generate a great sense of community to plant itself clearly and roundly before repression; but, for another, also, the need for a defined reference in order to be able to decide our future. And if we want to move forward, we can't say that what made us strong then, surely, is what can continue to make us stronger still today. To water down large plural and diverse majorities that help us to resist much better before repression, but that also help us to build a new country, there are no improvisations or occurrences. But neither do they, before repression and in favor of the right to decide, excuses. And, for that, it's up to you. But why do we have big majorities in Catalonia? So, mainly, to be stronger before reactions like the Government of Spain had. The police violence against the people found in the electoral coll·legislation; the speech of the « to them of the king, who does not represent absolutely none to Catalonia; the use of the courts to judicialize politics, invalidating all political action; the submission of the prosecutor's office to exercise political persecution against who is mogui of the photo; the suspension of the Catalonian self-government or the application of article 155. They may be stronger and stronger to denounce clearly and clearly the persecution of the members of the October 1 Electoral Union, members who were chosen for this Parliament. October 1st, the Government of the State was not at the height and we would like the Spanish Government's actions of October 2017 and December 2018 to be different. Six months ago we expelled Rajoy from Moncloa, and there is little people who lived hoping for the change from Rajoy to Sánchez to the head of the government in Madrid. If it was possible to take out thieves and corrupts, why is it not possible to end the inertia of the People's Party in guarantee of rights and freedoms? A modern, solvent state would have to move the courts away from politics and would have to ask for new answers to Catalonia's demands. And we believe that the PSOE has to set itself aside from the hard-handed policy against Catalonia. Today we give support to the members of the Electoral Union of '1 October: Jordi Matas, Tània Verge, Marc Marsal, Josep Pagès, Marta Alsina, because, if there is a clear mandate of '1 October it is that it should be much before repression for the defense and protection of democratic rights and freedoms. Because, if there's any October 1 mandate, it's that there's a vast majority of Catalonia's citizens who want to build a new country, which involves not only deciding which model of state we want, not just deciding which relationship we want to have with the Spanish State, but in which country we want to live. It is very clear what we want: a country that is worth living. And that's why we don't just have to offer horizons of the future to our people, but we have to guarantee democratic rights and freedoms. And that's why it's okay for everyone, today, and for what remains to live in the country's situation, we're up. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.150.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mr Josep Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.151.0	Thank you, President. I take advantage of the fact that I have a drop of water in my hand to remember the fellow MPs who are in prison for a long time today, thirty days ago and two days ago, respectively. [[Greetings.]] A little more than a year ago, the powers of the State were beginning, they were doing everything to try to stop the referendum of the first of October, threats of the Constitution and the prosecutors in error and right, escorts and beatings throughout the country, looking for papers, envelopes or electoral propaganda, desperate search of the ballot boxes – without much success, certainly – intimidation of the media to advertise, ban acts, and, finally, attacks against the people who voted peacefully in the legislature. In this counter-rellotge persecution, they also tried to prevent the trade union from functioning in the referendum, beating the civil and political rights of its members. As a result of this persecution, today, the Court of Strasbourg is already considering its applications, which, like that of a servant, who was only a substitute for this union, denounce a complete breach of the state of law in Spain. A segment at the highest level, precisely, for the Constitutional, which used, for the first time, its powers of exception, questioned for the Council of Europe from the first day. They wanted to personally corner the syndics, threatening them with economic ruin. I want to recognize from here the dignity with which the members of the union face these threats and take advantage, obviously, to greet them: Marc, Tània, Jordi, Marta and Josep, you are not alone. [[Greetings.]] The case of the syndics is very important, because it is the first petition of arrest for the prosecution for persons who participated in the referendum of the first of October, the first charge of arrest; then came the one of the prisoners and exiles. It's more of a show than the Spanish State is looking for justice, but it's breaking with justice to seek revenge, and that's all because they can't put up with the referendum. Look if the prosecution that the prosecutor filed against the union members was desperate, a complaint to disobey the Constitutional before the Constitutional has notified them. They wanted to put up with the reference to any price, a question that was certainly not in their hands either. What is the crime of which the members of the union are accused? Have you participated or contributed to the realization of the reference? It's not. It was a crime, thanks to Aznar, during the years 2003 to 2005, and there are penalties for up to six months in prison or a fine. It gave the law that repealed these crimes, for sure, related to the references, which does not have enough entity to deserve the criminal charge, and even less if the penalty envisaged is imprisonment. So we know, two years and nine months in prison is what the prosecution asks for from the union members, for a crime that doesn't exist. To participate in the organization of a referendum, as I said, is not a crime in Spain. And, as the European Convention on Human Rights says, in its Article 7, "there can be no penalty without law, so literally. At the international level, for this reason, they already had lawyers for the massive violation of civil and political rights on the part of the Spanish State, and now they have police officers. Mr Sanglas had already mentioned the reference to American, Canadian or British associations of politicians who have already condemned this political persecution. I think it is very explicit what the association of the United Kingdom said on 26 November, which literally said: « While we do not want to take a position on Catalonia's independence, we formally condemn the illegality of imprisoning someone because of her or his political beliefs. And it's that, as I said to the beginning, the crackdown started with the union members, but it went a lot further. From here, our speech to the motion, which does not change anything, but adds a third point: "As the Spanish Government does not want to act, we ask that it be the Government of the Generality which, in accordance with its legal powers and in defence of public interest, has turned to the senior prosecutor of Catalonia to formally ask him to withdraw the unworthy and unlawful accusations against the union and against all accused persons for having participated in or collaborated with the first October. Summoning, as I said, and participating in a referendum is not a crime to Spain or Europe. For this reason, no person who has participated in the reference should be either prosecuted or imprisoned. If the Spanish State were a state of law, if it had not broken into the Spanish State, completely, the state of law to try to prevent this reference, today, we would not be a country in the spotlight of Europe because of the massive violation of civil and political rights and would not be in the situation that unfortunately equates us to Turkey. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.152.0	Thank you. Then, to fix his position, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.153.0	I'll drink the water in honor of the Catalans who wanted to remove the passport. [[Greetings.]] With the help of these gentlemen who occupy, and to whom I greet, the banks of the public, gentlemen who are neither syndicated nor ever were; what they were named in a shameful farce that happened in this Parliament on September 6 and 7, 2017; at one of the mornings, their friends, they named you something that they called « syndics of the Electoral Union of Catalonia. Then, what has happened we all know: you were threatened with fines and, between the pocket and the homeland, you chose your pocket, you ran out and the glorious history of the Catalonian union of days 6 and 7 ended so honorably. So impartial were these gentlemen and so impartially they had to ensure the elections to be held or by that illegal referendum they intended to hold, so impartial were they that they accepted that they had been appointed validly, even though any electoral union in Catalonia should be named statutoryly with at least ninety votes; but, well that is the least, because, as we abrogated the Constitution, the Statute, the Rules, we disobeyed the Council of State Guarantees, we violated the rights of half the Chamber..., pst, what's the matter, isn't it? I mean, you guys gave up on each other and were super impartial, you guys. Well... Well, look, listen, I think it's logical that, in a rule of law, those who usurp the functions of a legal electoral union can be prosecuted for it, and those who disobey the Constitutional Court, and it's not that they hold illegal referendums, it's that the criminal type is another very different, it's disobeying the Constitutional Court, they can also be prosecuted perfectly for disobedience. I'm not saying you're going to be convicted, because I'm not a judge and I'm not the one to say it. And I don't know if it's too much or it's too little or it's going to be the one they're imposing or they're not going to impose any. It's none of my business, I belong to the legislature, and that's what the judiciary has to decide. But, well, what we do see here and we can see today is that this Parliament, which has been since then since 6 and 7, is a pure instrument of independence, with a President of the Parliament and a Bureau mostly at the service of independence, with a uniform, permanent and constant use of the Chamber, to promote the cause of independence. And that is why today we are voting for the support of some gentlemen who are validly prosecuted, and yet we will not be able to vote later and we will not be able to discuss whether the director of TV3 has to appear here to explain what his performance was with reference to the supposed referendum of 1 October, and how much public money was spent. We can't bring him here. Why? Because also, in due course, in the legal services of the chamber, the necessary changes were made so that the last one who arrived, that is, ex-Secretary General of Esquerra Republicana, was the lighthouse and guide of the legal decisions in this chamber. And that's how it goes. Today we pay tribute to Mrs Forcadell, who was presiding over Parliament on the day that most Members' rights were trampled on. That lady violated my rights and those of many others who were deputies in the past legislature, and I am not saying that, ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying that, as the Constitutional Court said, and that was declared by the Constitutional Court. Therefore – therefore – I tell you what I say... Well, in a parliament, moreover, in which the votes are also submitted... Today the Constitutional Court has confirmed the suspension of those prosecuted by the coup to democracy; has it confirmed, eh? And you have also confirmed something else, Mr Torrent: that confirms that the votes we are holding and the non-suspension that was agreed here are illegal, and that will have consequences, as did the disobedience of the syndics who bring us here. Look, I just want to tell you one thing: the abuses of the nationalist majority, committed, moreover, to the impulse of a government of a lord who appeals to the wars of the Balkans and who considers the other beasts and beasts tarnished by DNA, this ultranationalist drift that we are living in Catalonia we will stop it, we will stop it at the polls and, when necessary, also before the courts. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.154.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialists and Unions Parliamentary Group for the Advancement, Mr Ferran Pedret has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.155.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, advisors, deputies and deputies, look, it is difficult to intervene on a day like today, because, certainly, the personal circumstances that affect the people who accompany us between the public are circumstances in which no one would want to find. We, he said in another way in the previous intervention, are part of the Parliament of Catalonia, therefore, of the legislative power, and do not correspond to us to challenge us if certain facts leak into certain criminal types or not, do not correspond to us. But it does correspond to us, I think, to try to draw a little bit of a political debate around the circumstances that have led us all the way here, and, as far as possible, to share some minimum consensus on what has been going on at the length of the past few years, and very much in the past year, to try to avoid the harmful consequences for the city as a whole and also for many individuals, who have occurred in the wake of the biggest constitutional crisis that has taken place in the past thirty years in our country. There are many factors that have led us here. I do not intend to convert what I would like to see as a political debate into a set of toilets, a distribution of responsibilities, which certainly does not exist, all political groups and all political and social actors must have, to a greater or lesser extent, from one perspective or from another, but it is not my intention to enter into a spate of toilets but to invite, in the dark of what we have had in the discussion of a young person, a deep reflection on how decisions have been taken, the insecurities, sometimes as we have been captured each and every one of our own relationships, and how, in the end, this has led us to an absolute disaster from our point of view. Look, he also made reference, and it's inevitable to do so because we're also talking about the electoral union, on parliamentary days from 6 to 8 September. I believe that any minimally neutral analysis, if it is possible with such a scant historical perspective to respect what has all been going on for a year and a year, should grant that these were absolutely disastrous parliamentary days for Catalan parliamentarians, for Catalan institutions and for the possibility of rebuilding a minimum of necessary confidence in the functioning of all parliamentary democracy, between different political positions that defend interests and different values and opposing positions in many aspects, and in other conciliable ones, as we have shown today to be able to vote different aspects together. But on the days of September 6 to 8, things were happening that are worth reflecting on. A majority of Parliamentarians decided that the political project they were promoting was sufficiently legitimate to erode, to completely ignore the institutional framework in which this very Parliament is formed, which is that of the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy. In fact, the first articles of the law that gave rise to the call of '1 October, they clearly stated, placed the text that was voted in a hierarchical position superior to that of any other than the one that might contradict, significantly the Constitution and the very Statute. And not just that, which is already a contradiction in any principle of a democratic parliament, which is that there is not much that can do it all, not just a parliamentary majority. Majorities and the conjunction of public powers are under the rule of law, and significantly to the Constitution, to the very Statute, and in the case of a parliament, also to the procedure that is the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia. Because, as I had occasion to say then and I will say now very quickly, a law is not because of the simple fact that the head of this title, a law is if it is dictated by the organ that can do it, that it has the competence to do it, and if it has been done through the proper procedure to do it. Therefore, an attempt to repeal the Constitution and the Statute without following the reform procedures, without the necessary majorities, ignoring, let us say,, even all the key elements of the legislative procedure, and more than anything else that derives, in this case, from the election of an electoral union that did not count on the majority necessary for electoral matters according to our own Statute and the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, therefore, could not end well from the way of things. Among other things, because it is legitimate that a certain majority of the parliament is created to change the conjunction of the cohabitation mark, this politically is always the case if there is not the consent of the people represented by the parties who at that time were in a parliamentary minority, that is not an electoral minority, if they count in terms of popular voting. Therefore, we try to start a way of reflection around all this, to prevent us from finding disastrous consequences as today, unfortunately, we must face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.156.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the paragraph of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.157.0	Well, good afternoon. It is especially late in Josep Matas, Tània Verge, Marc Marsal, Josep Pagès and Marta Alsina, who are members of the Electoral Union. You, you, are patenting a case more than the prolongation of the state violence against the democratic cry of self-determination. The judicial violence, also political violence, because many of the words that have certainly been expressed here generate a certain dehumanizing impact, and then they complain, and then we will talk about it, to the next young lady. It has already been said: we are at your side, we are showing you all our support, but this is not the only one we are scandalizing ourselves before what is obvious injustice, before what is a violation of fundamental rights, before what is a political persecution demanding of some professionals of the right and political science some prison sentences and many. In fact, the whole plea began with a threat, with a blunt threat, with a threat of a fine of EUR 12,000 per person per day, while Romanian in the freight. Despite their resignation, Spain's justice has continued this persecution and, therefore, from this chamber we have the responsibility, in the same way that we have appointed them, to be at their side and not to allow them to be alone before this persecution. There are many professionals and activists, scientists, who have shown their support, university professors who have shown their support. One of them, as you know, is Noam Chomsky, that one of the phrases – I would like to remember – a quote from him, which says: "Propaganda is democracy that fucks dictatorship. And you see here, the 78 rule: propaganda and anti-democratic propaganda, and fuck and fuck against freedom and democracy, and the democratic demand of the right to self-determination. But we rise up against injustice, we rise up for rights and freedoms, and we must continue to do so, because neither propaganda nor fucking will cause a democratic and fighting people to never give up the right to self-determination nor to give up defending themselves before this injustice and this political persecution. All our support, thanks for your work. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.158.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Deputy Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.159.0	This motion is the result of events that exemplify the frustration and impotence caused by the independence process throughout this time. You deputies, deputies, government of the Generalitat, independenceists, have created a virtual world, and this electoral union is part of that virtuality, from a world parallel to reality, to that of the normal people, to that of the people who have their problems every day. They've been using public resources all this time. They have served the institutions in favor of a great collective lie, and now they claim that democratic institutions look elsewhere; look elsewhere and forgive them their excesses and their acts of political pedantry. We then warned you of the consequences of trying to attack this Parliament democratically as you did, and you did not listen to us. And now, for some time now, we have been warning you that following the same line will take you back to taking the consequences of insisting on placing yourself on a path of a supposed republic, which is only part of the imagination of those who play with the illusions of a part of the population. If Mr. Jordi Matas, Mr. Marc Marsal, Mr. Josep Pagès and Mrs. Tània Verge and Ms. Marta Alsina were brave to lend themselves to challenging democracy, they must now be equally brave to assume the consequences of what that act meant, an act of contempt for democracy and legality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.160.0	To pronounce on the papers, it's the return of Mr. Marc Sanglas' deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.161.0	Thank you, President. In any case, we believe that this turn of events has also served to make very clear who is the position of some of these parliamentary groups that attack Catalans, attack the institutions that represent us all folds and that have no way of breaking the civic coexistence in this country. They accuse of breaking up with each other, but it is they who break up with each other. They're the ones that refer to I don't know what about some passports. So look, here the only people who don't have a passport are the people who are in prison, the only Catalans who don't have a passport are the people who are in prison and have taken them out by repressive measures of the Government of the State. [[Greetings.]] And if you justify prison sentences for violating the Constitutional Court, you should be under arrest by members of the State Government and other Spanish stations. [[applause]] That they should be in prison for violating the rights of Catalans, the individual rights of each of us. And, in any case, also to say them, Mr Pedret, that the debate of September 6 and 7 was certainly not produced in the best conditions, we are all agreed; but we also have clear in what conditions it was produced: after many attempts of this parliamentary chamber to attempt a debate, to reach an agreement with the Government of the State. And they follow the checks, and the state government follows the checks. They want to try and continue suppressing democracy through punitive processes, and this is not solved. What needs to be done is to learn in a table and give the view to Catalans through a reference that allows us to solve the question, which is where we find 80_percent of Catalans, Mr. Pedret. This is where we are. And, look, Mr. García Albiol, those who assault... you say we assault democracy. Here, the only ones who rob things are the pheasants who rob booksellers in the presentations of books. [[Greetings.]] And in any case, ladies and gentlemen of the commons, we have seen what debate has occurred in this parliamentary chamber. I would like to thank them, in the speech they have made, for the reality in which we find ourselves, that what is being done is to pursue politically people, academics who simply put their knowledge and their science together with their citizenship, and not to serve as a cause in particular, who can give this young man a full support. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.162.0	I'm guessing – to the groups I think it's already transmitted – the error correction of the number 3 point of the motion, huh? Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Go ahead and vote for this young man. The vote begins. This motion was adopted by 73 votes to 57, with no abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.163.0	Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the need to care for health professionals]] [[302-00040/12]] It is the Movement following the question to the Government about the need to take care of the professionals of salvation. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, to expose it has the word Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.164.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Cap councillor or councillor to greet; therefore, good late, deputies and deputies. Today Ciutadans we are presenting again a motion to care for the professionals, a motion that arouses interest in the deputies, probably does not awaken, as we see, so much interest in the councillors or the councillors, but, in any case, we do want to regret that yesterday, well, the president newly obliterated himself from a large part of the health system: he said that the issue and the problem of doctors had been solved, and unfortunately we have a wrong president, a president that we are accustomed to forgetting a part of Catalonia, in this case obliterated a part of the health system, because not all doctors are, therefore, with the subject arranged..., and, obviously, I think it is enough to say – even though we have done many times in this faristol – that the health system is great, not only the methods. And we want to present a motion to help, to improve, to dignify the health system encompassing the entire system, all its professionals. And it's been a long time since Ciutadans warned that there were problems in the health system, that we had to take care of the health system. But, of course, what did the president of the last legislature say? What does the president say? What do our advisors say about respect? So once and for all they have denied us the reality; reality that it has now been absolutely ratified and affirmed with a wave in the street. So, again, we have to say: "We were right, there were problems that we were announcing. And it is that we have a government that has abandoned the health system and that has only, and unfortunately, connected when the workers have reached the street. Because that's what excellent professionals do, that the only one they ask is to be able to do their work with dignity, to be able to do it with excellence; people who every day leave their hair to work for others, to take care of us all; workers who are always willing to give it all for the sake of citizenship. But I think the government is taking this seriously. Because it's not a minor issue, as our president says. This, for Ciutadans, is a key theme, it is a main theme. And we've already seen after this shift as we say: "Stop giving chops to the desktop to the workers, that's not enough. It is not a question of going out here to the Faristol and giving thanks to the professional and not doing anything else, abandoning them. Unfortunately, as we have seen, with these agreements the government has recently left a large part of the health system unanswered. And today, with this young man, we want to take measures to cover everything else, which deserves all dignity too. I repeat: we want all health professionals who conform to our health system to be raised to the same dignity that they deserve in their conjunction. Today we see Dr. Martín Zurro – for me a reference author, because I approved the opposition, as so many teachers, studying his book – asks the Government: "Does anyone know of any political initiative replenishment of the Health Council in the last two years? And he himself says: "Citizenship has begun to perceive the deterioration of the basic principles of the system, such as the maintenance of quality and security, care and accessibility. You don't say "Citizens" – and so do you –, say the prestigious meths we have in Catalonia. For all this, we don't just want to thank the professionals, who we give them. We want to make it clear in this Parliament that this was a dignity, that this also gave time because professionals can look their patients in the face, because they can listen to them with the dignity and excellence they deserve, and because professionals think they need to participate in this global, joint, cross-cutting betterment of the system. Therefore, Members, Members, Mr President, and in the absence of Councillors, we dignify the health system, we look after the professionals, because it is time. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.165.0	Thank you, Congressman. To present the papers presented has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the deputy Mrs Maria Assumption Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.166.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. Soler, you're right, we have to take care of the professionals. I don't think there's anyone, no group, no deputy, congresswoman in this chamber who doesn't agree with this maximum, just like you ended up in your defense of the young lady, do you? And even I recognize him that his inquiry had all the time felt, because it is true that what was going on in the street is certainly true that we were speaking here in this Parliament too; I recognize him, at last, that the inquiry had heard. But, of course, this young man, Mr. Soler, I could say very well..., and forgive me, and I took all the good will of this statement with me, but it's almost over. Among other things, because of the reference you made to last week's vacancy, which is motive, which motivates this inquiry and this subsequent motion, only three points, the last of this motion, of god, refer precisely to those agreements that are actually going to change the working conditions of the professionals. And, besides – and that's what I want to thank you for, because it's true that we have understood – precisely because there's an agreement that transcends the debate that we can hold parliamentary groups, because we're talking about government and we're talking about professionals who have come to an agreement, I want to thank you also that you accept the three points that point out, precisely when they talk about the PODs, about the compliment of the directions per objective; that you're also recovering 100% of the remuneration; that you don't penalize the pharmaceutical prescription when you charge PODs. Or also in point 9, when he speaks precisely of the participation of professionals in the directions of the primary care teams, of marking the care line, of making a periodic evaluation of it. And even at the last point, when they say, therefore, that precisely this agreement that will translate into a sure plan of action of the Government, that will come to be explained here in this Parliament. So, of course, it's true that in these three points you refer to the vacancy. But to the rest of the young man, I can almost tell you that you were on the safe side, because how can we not give support to the rest of the young man? In point 1 you refer to recognize the professional's pocket. We have done it a lot in this Parliament. And it's true, and I've heard myself say many times, that it's not enough, to the professionals, to give them a cup to the scale for the good pocket they make; that's what I said myself in this faristol and it's true. But what's really important is that this recognition of the citizenry has. And, fortunately, our system is good, our professionals are excellent, and the value of healthcare in Catalonia, according to the health barometer of Catalonia, so it gives us a very good note: more than 60_percent of the value of healthcare in Catalonia; and if we go, therefore, sectorizing it, to the hospital we give almost a 7 and a half, to the primary a 7.3, to the specialized more than a 7, to the emergency exceeds the 6... But here's the truth... and it's not the time to make triumphalistic appreciations, is it? And what we have to worry about and what I love, and I understand that every member of this chamber is to say: man, it's very good that more than 60_per_cent positively value healthcare in Catalonia, but it's obvious that there's an 11_per_cent that doesn't value it positively, and this is where we have to be able to influence, in this 11_per_cent that doesn't give it that highest score. You're talking about point two, the dignity of professionals, aren't you? , take care of the professionals. It's obvious; a round yes. Because in fact the great task we have is not just to take care of the professionals who care, but to take care of all those who take care of. I believe that it is one of the challenges we have for the future, and also the place in this Parliament and in all the areas in which we can find ourselves, from the perspective of salvation, facing the challenge that sees us for the future, a challenge that will obviously pass to take care of the caregiver. Because we find ourselves with an increase in life expectancy, which will lead us to an increase in chronicity, an increase in comorbidity, and which will obviously lead us, of course, to have to focus much more not only on patient care, on the health care that I need, but also on the care that heals. Therefore, in this sense, totally agreeable. Point 3: agenda, organizational changes; we also agree. It is obvious that there are organizational measures, management measures, that improve the work done by professionals. They're putting us in there. I think that everyone, the first government, we agree with this, because it is obviously a criterion of work quality. Point 4: Participation. Certainly, every time the policies of salvation come out of the gaps, and we don't just have to incorporate the professionals, that every time the more they are – it's been a while since it's been working on this – but also..., and more here I want to make a parenthesis: all professionals, in all areas of management, in all areas of decision-making – and also parenthesis. But not just the professionals, but also the patients. And here they'll find us too. I, finally, follow WHO recommendations; it's obvious. We have to keep watch and we don't have to forget about the collection. So, as I went back to your young lady, we will give full import support to this young man, they understand that at the last three points they accept our papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.167.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Congresswoman Anna Tarrés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.168.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies and deputies, we live in a state that has political undertakings for its ideas, to allow people to vote on October 1st; a state that has political exiles and political prisoners, four of them in the middle of fame. From here, all my unconditional support to all of them and give thanks to all the people who are aging, more, for their salvation. Meanwhile, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group presents us with a motion on the need to care for the professionals of salvation. We have to take care of those who take care of us. But I would like to propose a small change in the terminology that you use in this motion: I propose to change the verb 'care', a term perhaps a little professional and a little paternalist, and I would replace it to give an adequate deal, as I said, without looking at origin, origin, origin, office or ideology. In relation to point 1, "recognize the task of health workers, we must claim that we are only a short while away from the austerity that we suffer, returning the complements that the workers had: the more per objective, the holiday days, the days of lleure, the antiquity and the triennis. As they speak of the return of professional dignity, it means that there has never been a loss of respect. The Catalan Institute of Health has always recognized that, thanks to professionals, and despite the detail, the system has always continued to function effectively. It should be remembered that, from 2016, all the ambulances in Catalonia have a full recognition of all the people who work there; a tool that allows them to have a thorough follow-up of all and each of the workers. For what it does at point 3, "guarantee the time necessary to be able to carry out consultations with dignity and quality and not to have more than two patients scheduled at the same time, we agree that the quality of the consultations must be guaranteed. And so it was clear to the later negotiations, where the appropriate time is set for each type of visit around twelve minutes for the face and six for the telephones, they understand that the eighth number to be completed would be around twenty-five, twenty-eight day visits. But we must bear in mind that there are variables that have a significant impact on the time to talk about these number of visits, such as the sociodemography of the assigned citizens. That is to say, the advanced age and the lower economic class, for example, could involve many more visits. Another variable is meth and nurse stabilization and knowledge. If they have a stable place and they've been working for a long time, they know their patients well and manage their visits better. At more inter-offices or supplements, the worst management of visits. Mr Soler, in the question of November 22 you gave a few data: nine patients quoted at the time, came in one hour, from fifty-three to sixty-three per day. As the day he appeared suggested, please ask him, if he can give us the names and surnames of the meths and methsessesses, so that the nine directions of the EAP can speak to them and re-establish them. It's true that there may be cases like these, but we understand that they're rare, and, I insist, if you remember their names, we can put it in the department's knowledge so that we can solve it. I would also like to remind you that the lists will never be perfect, because medicine is a service where urgency is the daily rule. It is clear that with a less tense system these emergency visits are totally absorbable. And that's why you don't have a sense that I'm talking about patient ration for every doctor. This would be another trap question; there is no direct relationship between the expenditure per capita and the quality of the service provided, as factors such as the average age or dispersal of the inhabitants can increase the average assumption per person. For all this, we agree that we do not need to go to another slot to make the necessary changes that the system needs. The government is working hard to secure assumptions and attend to all the collectivities. This demonstrates the agreement reached on 29 November of the ICS with the Metges Union of Catalonia, in which the different measures of improvement have already been agreed. Finally, I would like to remind you that March 2014 was the beginning of the creation of the foundations of an extraordinary document named « Pacto Nacional de la Salut a Catalunya. Maybe it's time to get it back and enjoy the work already done. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.169.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Member of Parliament, Assumpta Escarp, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.170.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. This morning we defended a motion that I had presented, which my parliamentary group presented and which, in some way, as we have also commented with Deputy Jorge Soler, so they were clearly complementary in their content with the motion that we are discussing now, presented for Ciutadans. They are motions that call back concerns, that want to go further beyond vacation agreements, that want and claim what we have always expressed, from here on, the Faristol, when we talk about primary care and its professionals, which is respect and dignity, and, above all, recognition. Many words can be used, and here I disagree with Mrs Tarrés, because « caring is not paternalistic, « caring is taking care. And I would share what Congresswoman Laïlla said: every time we have to take better care of the caregivers, because every time we have a higher life expectancy, and therefore there must be more people than I have taken care of. I often think that... – and this, a tribute to a profession sometimes not so recognizable –, infirmary, if anything you have is this ability to take care of, and, therefore, never to the titular life of these professional paternalists, but of good professionals, who are who they are. He spoke of recognition, respect and dignity respect for primary care. And I think it would be worth it, and I take advantage of it, because the counselor put on her council a representative of primary care. I think it would be a way... – and neither you nor I, Mr Soler, have incorporated it – but somehow it would be a way of recognizing what we all say, right? If we all agree with what the WHO says, right? , having effective and quality primary care is a necessary guarantee for the viability and sustainability of any health care system, keeping it on the same board believes that it would be worth doing. It is true that all these motions have appeared around a space presented, but it is true that in this House and in the Health Committee we have talked a lot about primary care as the vertebrate part of the system. And I'd like to remind you that we're in front of a very small collection. We have to pay twelve years back because the teachers and professionals of primary care, in any case, in this case, the faculty as much of primary care as the hospitals have made a vacancy. So, when they got to a measure like this, it was because the situation was already really unsustainable for them. And among other things, because there had been some compromises and some attempts to resolve with some compromises that had not been completed, such as, for example, that the management of the ICS had signed with the North Metropolitan and that it also formed part of the body of the current claims because it had not completely complied. That's why I share two points... I share the whole place and we will support it, but I think there are two points that are very important. Point 7 that says textually: "Remember that you can't wait for the next slot to make changes that the health care system needs. And, therefore, make the changes urgent, right? , from these collections and what they need. I think, therefore, that this is an important issue, since... above all, it should be noted that the agreements are to be completed, huh? That we do not go back, as I said, to the North Metropolitan, and that the agreements that have been signed with the faculties are being completed, and, in this case, with the teachers' union; but, above all, also, the agreements that have been signed in this Parliament, when we have spoken of forty-four hours so that you can have your headmaster's appointment, or the recognition of professional self. And also this point 10 that opens the door to the follow-up and control of the compliment of agreements with a concrete and specific plan, that opens the debate to parliamentary groups. To see if among all, Mrs Tarrés said so, that we remember or recover the National Pact for Sanitation, for salvation. So let's see if we all get the debate done and let us somehow get involved in the things that have to be done. If you have to summarise in some way the motion tabled by Mr Soler would come to say that the complaint of what the professionals have made, or above all the debate and reflection that they have put on the table, we would define it with three words: time, resources and abilities. I think we have the duty and obligation to give them an answer. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.171.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can now be the turn of Congresswoman Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.172.0	Well, good afternoon. We'll obviously support this young man, too. It is in a certain way complementary to a motion that in this very same House we have already voted this morning of the Socialist Group, and therefore we believe that, from a more professional focus, it does not cease to be a complement to that motion. I explained this morning: from Catalonia to Comú We can defend a primary health care system, and therefore everything that is of different strength and focus from the same system to give a centrality to primary care, so it will count on our support. And that means, assumptions. That means obviously supporting the professionals. This means working conditions for these professionals, but this also means management tools that allow you to organize properly and also manage the choice of your directions, of your goals. Therefore, in this sense, the proposals he makes respect the professionals, the motion of Ciutadans, do not need more shots to the stage. That's what Congresswoman Laïlla said too, they're full of chips on the bench, the professionals. What is needed are decided bets and this means resources and means different policies. The truth is, I didn't mean anything more, but I can't be. What we can't do is go back to the Boi Ruiz policies. We come from there, and out of those muds these muds. And we're still trying to reverse Mr. Boi Ruiz's details. But is it that not returning to the policies of the Boi Ruiz does not only mean reversing what he did, but, indeed, must we return to the national pact of Mr. Boi Ruiz? Do we really have to return to that absolute failure to try to bring civil society, professionals, political parties into line with the national health system? If what Mrs Tarres wants to say is that it is necessary to return to a national agreement on the system of salvation, I think that it should be made clear at the moment: it must be an agreement that has centrality in the interest of people, of salvation and not of malalty, of transparent public policies in the health system, of a change of attitude from hospital to primary and community, of a demediation, and of an absolute breach of the powers of neoliberal policies that they have attempted successfully, on the part of Councillor Boi Ruiz and continued on the part of Esquerra Republicana while they do not prove the contrary, it has been a failure of the public health system to open a road–forgive –, a highway for those who intend to negotiate the principle of our health system and that the health system should be better served by our health care system. Therefore, to make it much more of the drift to concerted, private, and also of the pharmaceuticals and the medicalization. If it's not for going here... I'm sorry, but I'm listening to the street and I'm listening to the professionals. There is no option – still much less than there was in 2013 and 2014 with Mr. Boi Ruiz – now to make no kind of consensus attempt to make a national pact of salvation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.173.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, is the turn, now, of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.174.0	Good afternoon. Simply to explain the meaning of our vote. We will vote in favour of the first and second points, because they are, for a band, recognition of the pocket of the workers and health workers; the second points, because it is a will as a minimum of political manifestation to want to return to this collection of professional dignity. But we will abstain from points between 3 and 7, as well as 10; then we will also explain why we will vote against points 8 and 9. Regarding 3, he says expressly: "Guarantee the necessary time, but what time? Regarding 4: "Listen to all health workers so that they can make better changes that the health system requires, but what are the best? Point 5: "Orient the percentage of pressure destined for primary attention so that it approaches the recommendation for the World Health Organization; we know the WHO referent but it is not exactly what percentage, nor just the fixed exactly, but a trend. Point 6: "Ensure that any agreement to care for professionals remains consensual with the representatives of workers and users. Consent is always a good will, but it's not a concrete manifestation of what the determination of the agreement really means. Or seven or seven: "Remember that I can't wait for the next slot for so much change that the health system needs, and so long as I can make urgent changes, and we go back to the same, five urgent changes? Therefore, it is the explanation why we have chosen to abstain at all these points, as well as the 10. With regard to point 9, for the rest of us who can share a question of care and quality indicators, we are not in favour of the way in which it is intended to strengthen the directions of the care team. And we also want to explain why we will not vote in favour and vote against point 8. Mirin, point 8 literally says: "Revert economic retail trades in accordance with agreements adopted with professionals in the sector and negotiating with the majority unions. If this is transferred to a summons, on the part of the Department of Health, at the table only of the majority unions, it will be a violation of the right to freedom of association, a violation of the right to collective bargaining and sometimes also, surely, there will be requests to condemn the Department of Health. You can vote for what you think is appropriate, but we do not want all of those who, moreover, from a legal point of view are legitimized and who are also a part of the representation of workers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.175.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.176.0	Thank you, President. From now on, to position us in relation to this motion of the Ciutadans Group. The reason is complementary and in a few points coincide – less concretely – with the reason that we have discussed this half of the Socialist Group in relation to primary care. In this young man it is more about the professional, it refers to some objects in a certainly more generalistic way, possibly made in this way to try to facilitate the consent of the chamber with regard to this young man. For our part, there is no problem: they will have the consent and we will support it. Home, we do want to express, but she didn't worry about it as much as the surprise, that there was some parliamentary group that had debated and discussed it in relation to the words. I think arguing about the words is fun 'as well as that which is not important– with the pardon of Mr Pujol, who surely considers that that is important other things–, and that what really matters, and that what really is worth is attitudes. And precisely this movement of what is going on with the attitudes of the government towards the professionals of salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.177.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.178.0	Thank you all very much. Well, in the first place begin to agree, therefore, the to and the majority, or a large part, of the comments, as well as the papers presented; I think that in this sense we have advanced in agreement, accepting them. In the first place, make a warning. Well, if anyone thought something was better, then I don't know if it sounds very pedagogic or not, but here in Parliament we have a costume, which is that one can mingle the motions, and then we trade them and we can talk about it. It's a parliamentary custom that I like to keep and, therefore, they already know that those groups that our own motions want to make some comment can look at them, that I will listen to them and talk about them with great diligence. Commenting, then: over, this young man? So, look, the past legislature was probably that usual, to say that what I was presenting – and in this case what I was presenting as a deputy spokesman for salvation – was about, which they have denied for many years, but, well, now I don't know about: there have been the health professionals who have come here to tell you that there is something about, that these needs are there. We agree with many points, well, but just as the health workers have said to them: "After you are incomplete; therefore, we must compromise, calm down. Well, and finally, I couldn't finish this coming back without making two little comments. Mrs. Tarres, look, we wrote to this young man to take care of him. If you had found it better to give a proper deal – I think you said that textually – then I would have accepted that. Obviously, if you understand that not giving a proper deal is not programming patients at the same time, which is what their government does. And finally: you see here..., I will try not to lose the education, right now, with my answer, but that you will come to this Parliament and tomorrow the lists to go looking for professionals who report things from the system..., trying not to lose the education: I think he was wrong about the deputy. See teleprocesses, because one of the lists was issued the day before teleprocesses – which seemed to me to see teleprocesses – or read to the networks, to Twitter, because these professionals are on the networks and they've stuck them. But, as you can understand, I will never report any company because I report that sanitation doesn't work well. This is the Slovenian way...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.179.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.180.0	...that's another way, but I don't think I'll ever defend her. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.181.0	Put your vote to the vote. Are there separate voting petitions? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Mr. Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.182.0	Yes, President. For a separate vote on points 1, 2, 8 and 9. The 1st and 2nd can vote together, just like 8th and 9th, also separately together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.183.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right. We shall vote first, therefore, on points 1 and 2, together. The vote begins. These two points have been approved unanimously. Let's now vote points 8 and 9, also together. The vote begins. Points 8 and 9 were approved by 124 votes to 4, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 124 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[302-00039/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word of the deputy Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.184.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today I am here to present on behalf of my group a motion with which we claim that Parliament is able to pronounce on an extreme that for us is alarming, that is the lack of plurality, impartiality and neutrality of our public media. Since the beginning of the TV3 process it has become an undoubted transmission correctness of the separatist message and has normalized a speech of less to Catalans than we are not separatists, which, on the other hand, we pay exactly the same way as these means that the separatists pay them, so that what we might ask, if not more, is a bit of neutrality, a bit of impartiality, and not a message that always insults us, less our feelings, our vision of Catalonia, of the conjunction of Spain, and our relationship with the rest of Spain. It is also a few media, our public media, that project a message that they claim is to erode the image of Spain, erode the image of our democracy and, ultimately, a message of animating the rest of Spain and the common project that we share Catalans with the rest of Spain. This logically has lengthened many Catalans, many citizens of Catalonia, of our public media – of TV3, of Catalonia Radio – because in the end people are tired of this understatement, of this understatement, which we logically consider inadmissible. Constitutionalist parties have a large number of very important voters in Catalonia – in fact, we are the majority in Catalonia –, and every day the voters of the constitutionalist parties watch less TV3. I believe that this requires or requires reflection on the part of the public media in Catalonia. That's why, in one of the points of our young lady, exactly what we're putting in the Board of Governors of the Audiovisual Media Corporation is to develop a specific plan to expand her audience between sections of the citizenry that at this time give her the skeleton for her disparate, even separatist, look. TV3 and Catalunya Radio have become an apparatus of agitation and propaganda for the service of separatist parties, which obviously have no problem with this speech, with the speech that serves a word like "exile" to refer to Puigdemont and the rest of the ex-governors who fled from Spain to not face their obligations before justice. Mira, the day Albert Rivera told TV3, on TV3's mornings program, that many Catalans and many citizens of the rest of Spain think about TV3, that is that he manipulates and distorts the reality of Catalonia every day, many people, many members of the separatist parties reacted ardently against Rivera. It's a classic in contexts where what they're trying to do is push or impose a single thought of killing the messenger, the one who's going to put the rulers in front of the Mirall. And in this sense, I believe that the distortion examples of TV3 reality are unaccountable. But, look, when we already thought that TV3 could not reach even more far, that it had already passed, that it had sunk excellence in its clinging defense of the separatist cause, between the moment when we recorded this motion and the day of today we had an episode, in the program Everything is soft, in which it was shown some maps in which TV3 called people to participate in illegal acts, which are the kind of roadblocks, the hold of critical infrastructures for a country. In Spain there are airports, in this case we talk about the Catalan airports, Barcelona, Reus, the port of Barcelona..., critical infrastructures that actually try to block them suppose to fall into a criminal law and TV3 encouraged the citizens of Catalonia to participate in these mobilizations with maps like this [[the orator shows the chamber a full]] , in which TV3 tells him "The Great Endurance. It is precisely the term used by these violent, clandestine and radical groups, who ask to create a crisis of coexistence in Catalonia on 21st December, to create a huge discomfort for many citizens of Catalonia who want to make their lives with normality or even go on holiday, and I think that from this point of view it is essential that we have a lot of things going on on TV3. Certainly, here is a detail that is very curious, which is that if you set it down « Boundary of Aragó and « Boundary of Vinaròs. I think there is no more paradigmatic example of how TV3_has slowed down the separatist message before the conjunction of Catalonian citizenship by imposing a message that we do not share most Catalans. On the other hand, I'm here today presenting a young man who had a point where we defended the appearance of the directors of TV3 and Catalonia Radio in front of this chamber, which I think is the least, taking into account, therefore, the responsibility that these people have in the broadcast of this message, and above all the high one I am that the conjunction of the Catalans we pay to these people. Well, the criteria of the Bureau of this Parliament and of the electorates of this Parliament – certainly, with the invaluable collaboration of its major electorate, the former Secretary General of the Republican Left – it was that this point of the motion was due and that the motion was expelled. We have not been able to vote on this in a chamber in which, for sure, it was quite a while ago, at last, to vote for the liquidation of our current legal order, the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy. I hope that the criteria of compliance and compliance with the laws have begun to be imposed on this Parliament once and for all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.185.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.186.0	Well, first of all, he didn't play for the season, smoke, smoke, smoke. [[Rialles.]] Smoke, smoke, Ciutadans come to us, supposedly to denounce and claim objectivity and information neutrality to our public communication media, Ciutadans, who have just agreed with Junts for Catalonia, with Esquerra and with PSC not only the direction of the « body, but a direction in chain or zipper of Esquerra and Junts for Catalonia, TV3 and Catalonia Radio. If it's not true, Mrs. Arrimadas, as it is that her doorman went out to say that they simply froze it; so, yes, it is true, but now they say they froze it. Well, smoke... smoke. Look, listen to what the professionals say, please. If you really want information neutralization and plurality in public communication media – and I'm very serious about it – yesterday, the TV3 Workers' and Workers' Assembly approved a communication that explains, I think, quite rightly, some arguments that we can certainly agree on, what made it much more governmental or biased TV3 and Catalonia Radio during the last few years is that there has been a direction that has been more dedicated to responding to party interests than to the professional work that would be done as the direction of public communication media, among others, for example, not adopting a program contract, which makes it more dependent on the public communication media than on the political, political, political, political, economic, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political, political. How's it going, that? Changing the government of the corporation and changing the heads of information and the direction of TV3 and Catalunya Radio, and making them respond to real professional criteria and not party criteria, from those of the government especially, but not only. This is what our theme says, a theme in which we say: "We have this change, with some criteria and with some forms in which citizens also write it, but which, moreover, says: "We have this change from changing the law, so that we can do it with a public contest, with the value of the professional criteria. It's just changing the law that we can change in this way. Have you taken advantage of this idea, for example, to demarcate that it is really true that you have agreed the government of the "body together for Catalonia and Esquerra and the PSC"? They took advantage of it, the thought, to demarcate themselves or to say: "No, no, actually, that proposal of law that we have signed all parliamentary groups is the way. Are we processing the law's proposal and making the renewal based on the criteria that the law's proposal says? No, no, They didn't want to accept the puzzle. They didn't want to. Look, maybe it's because we're the commons and they don't want to get together with us or just one thing. All right. Listen, there's the law, there's the law's proposal to be processed in Parliament. Have they made it easier to bring it to the plethora of the coming week, as it had already been spoken at the Board of Spokespersons, and that, therefore, the processing of this law begins? No, no, Mirin, on this Tuesday's Board of Spokesmen, Ciutadans, with Junts for Catalonia and with Esquerra Republicana, blocked that the proposal of law signed for all of us and that would actually make that there are objective criteria and public contests to choose the directors of TV3, of Catalunya Radio and the members of the corporation are transmitted to the Plenary of the coming week. So, really, you want to fight for more neutrality and plurality of public media? No, no, What are you doing? Smoke, smoke, smoke. A gesture of gesticulation, a farce, while they're holding these chords. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] And while they do not deny that this is true – and they have not denied it – this is what has given the table to it and this is the facts. Mirin, from Juntas per Catalunya and d'Esquerra, on this subject, we didn't expect anything; it's been a few years since they used public communication media as a courtship. Unfortunately, the PSC, too, on this subject. But, from Ciutadans, that, in this matter, the mouth of regeneration and changes in the forms of management are filled, they should have fallen to the shame of having agreed what they have agreed for the government of the corporation. Catalans don't deserve to be played with public communication media in this way. The media should be guaranteeing the right to true and plural information for citizens – for citizens. They're not ours, the communications media, the party media, or the parliament, they're from the citizenry. Cannot be sharing communication media between parties, falling between parties, once more. It's sad, it's very sad to think that..., because one day it's going to happen: it's mostly what we don't just say, but we think it's true when we do these things, one day it's going to be mostly in this Parliament; but it's sad to think that when it comes this day, it's going to be so denigrating our public communication media that there's nothing left to save.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.187.0	Congresswoman, thank you. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.188.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, And it's in this sense that the young lady, when she says, "Home, we're making a programming plan to look to expand the audience to sections of the citizenry that at these times don't listen to them..., so we agree and we have to vote in favour and we will vote in favour. Is that what you said before? Not that I know of. You never said that before. We have told the Catalan corporation, the control committee, but, by writing, in this Parliament, no, and we will vote in favour. We would also vote in favour..., we would have voted in favour of the sixth point, this point which has disappeared: « To urge the director to appear and give the appropriate explanations. We will also vote in favour of the fact that when it is said that "the expressions that the electoral board has already said cannot be used are not used. We are in favour and I believe that everyone who is here is in favour of voting for informational objectivity and political neutrality, especially in informational spaces. We are in favour and will therefore vote in favour. And we also support that, especially in information, there should be no insults, insults to politicians or citizens, especially male and homophobic insults for certain staff presenters, absolutely minority, huh? That's what we have to say; that's to say, 99.9_percent of the Catalan Corporation's professionals do not use these expressions, but there is someone who does, and therefore we have to reject these expressions and we have to try to prevent the CCMA from being a transmission correct of a concerted strategy to dehumanize the policies, especially the opposition. Therefore, we will vote in favour of this motion from Ciutadans. And we will vote in favour of a young woman asking for the minimum criteria of professionalism and experience. Who says they're the most professional and experienced candidates? Home, I can think of someone, I can think of someone, I don't have the absolute truth about whether the proposals are professional or not, at least, I can think of them, and I think that sometimes there are proposals about the table that are very powerful and very good, of authentic professionals, as at least, as there are now. That they're chosen for a majority of two-thirds? Someone's against it, right? It is a very good proposal, that they are chosen for a majority of two thirds and that, moreover, it is a majority parliament and that, moreover, after there can be public contests, we have asked for it from the minute u, Citizens also from the minute u. So, let's do it. I, lords of Ciutadans, if we have it, let's do it. I agree with you. In the opportune moment, all right, all right, when the most opportune, but let's do it. If we have it, do it. And it's in this sense that I think it's a young woman who answers an inquiry that is later, we will vote for it. Surely, the whole of the young man is not how much we use the corporation, but we stay with what he was talking about at the beginning, the construction experiment that, among all of us, we can do some communication media where we all feel like looking at them, and I think this young man was enough on this line. Many thanks, ladies and gentlemen; many thanks, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.189.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the turn, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. The paragraph is made by the Member of Parliament, Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.190.0	Well, we have one more time to question the professionalism of journalists and journalists, of all media professionals, with the task of public media and, in addition, with a point 1, of Ciutadans, which says: "The Parliament of Catalonia is committed to starting the depolitization of TV3 and Catalonia Radio. It's that you see the praise, you see the praise, to City and to the PSC, too, that you were, here, with your little mouth. David, how many meetings have we had to agree to the modification of the Audiovisual Law? What a shame! What a shame, when they have the business committee of TV3 and Catalonia Radio, when they have the Journalists Union, when they also have the Group of Journalists Ramon Barnils, the Collegiate Journalists, tell them - here. What do they do? What do they do? There is a consensus in Parliament, all parliamentary groups, to amend the law and to ensure that public media are not subject to government, nor do they represent a distribution of seats and slots. What now will it turn out that all this offense you feel, all this discrimination you feel on the part of public media is solved with a cadira and a son as it does the government of the body? Quina shameya – quina shameya. Because that's how you see it, it turns out that the only one who wants to be a part of the elites that control and claim that public media is a party space. And public media are a space for people and their professionals. We, for example, in the consensus text, gave up a demand from the workers, thinking that a debate would take place here. He doesn't touch a depatx, he doesn't touch a depatx, he doesn't touch a depatx, he doesn't touch a depatx, he doesn't touch a depatx, he doesn't touch a depatx, he doesn't touch a depatx, he doesn't touch a depatx, he doesn't touch a depatx. Yeah? We, the Government, ask them directly: rectify, they are in time, even though it is for the excuse of the freezing of Ciutadans. Rectifyquin. We have a consensus, let's work here. Public media are out of Parliament, not out of you as parties and government. They have the opportunity to do so. We'll be right next to you on this one. We have always told you, the first question we asked in a control session to the President of Parliament was literally: « President, it is urgent to renew the Board of the Corporation. And we asked: "Can I guarantee the division of governance to the corporation? Can you assure us that the government of public media will not be the result of a caddis division?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.191.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.192.0	The president lied or you, today, what they're doing is a little bit of what gives them the will with a question as far as democracy is concerned: public media. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.193.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. You have the word Mrs. Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.194.0	Yeah. They doubt that we will always come to say in this Parliament that there is no pluralism in the public media in Catalonia and we will not tire of doing so. We will not tire of doing what is because, every time we listen to them, we hear an aggravation again. Or how, if not, can you understand a recent example, last week, that one of your TV3 star presenters, one of those, by the way, who made paellas with the former President of the Generalitat and yet you record it as an example of journalistic neutrality, the lady who makes the afternoon program [[relays]] - I don't want to quote her. [[relays]] – he says: "No, it's just that, man, how can health professionals and firefighters strike? When would they have to be on the side of the republic? Is that pluralism? Do you think that is pluralism? That we who are not independent can feel on that television represented? No, no, And that is why we will again insist, at each plenary session, on each committee, to tell them to stop putting their hands of independenceists on the public television of all Catalans; that public television is to represent the whole of Catalan society, not its political ideology, and not to advocate for the republic, as this television presenter does. What is strange to us, even though we are going to vote in favour of this Citizens' motion, is that they then make the pact of dishonor and agree to agree with the independence lords what must be the governing body of the corporation. We do not understand this change of opinion, and I place the spokesman of Citizens to clarify what in the intervention that follows him, so that he can tell us why he deals with independenceists, and if that is to give then neutrality to the public media of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.195.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Congresswoman Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.196.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, MPs and MPs... You say that media professionals – I quote: "Public media must be able to work impartially and neutrally, which is incompatible with pressure and tendentious propaganda. So, well, we agree, Mr. White; we agree. Because it seems completely unacceptable to me – you have not made any point – that the president of your political party, Mr Albert Rivera, to the band to threaten and behave irresponsiblely, tell the journalist Lydia Heredia who are the questions to ask her. Perhaps it seems normal for you to ask questions and do so directly, undermining the work of professionals, public communication media, pressuring the journalist, and making it irresponsible, as I said, before the hearing, legitimizing the incendiary speech against public media. I repeat: "Professionals of public communication media must be able to work with impartiality and neutrality, which is incompatible with pressure and tendentious propaganda. I suppose you must also mention the fact that the public media in this country must always be in the spotlight of the intervention of 155, to close the public media and open them with normal people, as Mr Albiol said. I suppose you understand that the public media in this country – as they say at point 3 of the motion – cannot be under the constant threat of the extreme right, and that they must be able to do their job without having to remove the TV3 logo from the microphone every time they come to cover their demonstrations. With every control session of the corporation, and every time we talk about TV3 and Catalonia Radio, you end up talking about the same things: Toni Alba, Empar Moliner, the satire gags of Poland. They come here to speak uncomplicatedly of what has a very simple name, which is censure. It began by assigning public media and ending by segregating books, eliminating works of artists and juggling songs. Vaginate with much account because they are left with a dangerous modern democracy. They are left with a clever modern democracy. They come here to report journalists, collaborators, they come here to talk about satire, they come here to talk about censorship, and, meanwhile, in the Spanish State they are stealing phones and computers. Majorca is violating the right of fonts, the right to information. Because the memory that the right to information is not from the middle but from the people. And while, as I said, the public media in the Spanish State are talking about the Nit de las Vidres Trencados, linking it to independence, or putting on the music of The Exorcist of Fons to President Puigdemont, and there's nothing going on, you keep quiet. Meanwhile, while you're very concerned because a humorous program is humorous, it's to say, does your job, to bother us all, in the parallel world of the Spanish State, the divenders, the compañeros of the state public media are dressed in black. And what do you do with respect? Callen. Meanwhile – I continue – the professionals, whom you consider to be working – I quote – "without pressure or threats, are declared, these professionals, in vague order to denounce the manipulation of Spanish Television on Catalonia. And what are you doing? Keep quiet. They like to notice very much, but they shut up when the decks. Do you know how many cases of professional practical ills, censorship and manipulation were held in Spanish Television in 2016? Forty-seen. The first three months of 2017? Sixty. The second quarter of 2017? Seventy. In total, 178 cases of practical ills; 250 girl pages for the business committee. How many parliamentary initiatives have they done with respect? More examples. Do you know how the Televisión Espanyola telenews opened when Mr. M. Rajoy was quoted for the Gürtel case? With the convocation of the nine elections to the United Kingdom. Do they really believe that it is more important to censor a satire program, which always refers to Poland, than to bring these 178 cases of practical ills to state media monitoring sessions? It's been an hour and a half. And if you weren't so worried, if you weren't taking such a perilous drift, I'd thank you; but don't worry, it's not funny. And, therefore, if we have to vote for something in favour of this malicious and demagogic motion, it would be point 3: "Professionals of public communication media must be able to work impartially and neutrally, which is incompatible with pressure and tendentious propaganda. Completely agree. I let the professionals work without pressure, without threats, without being at the center of their obsessions; I let the professionals of the public media in this country do their job, with enough rigour and sense of humor, as the times call for. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.197.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr Josep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.198.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, Members, « TV3 is a separatist television directed by separatists; « agitating and propaganda services; « teleprocesses; « telePuigdemont; « separatist political commissaries, to refer to the director of TV3. I begin by citing some qualifications that you, citizens' deputies, use in this plenary and in commissions to disqualify Catalan public media and organs. You're professionally qualified when you want to disqualify, you call it all. They disqualify everything, for example, they are unable to qualify Vox. They don't know where Vox is ideologically located. Your friends and company of demonstrations, and who knows if partners of government quickly, those who are congratulated by the Ku Klux Klan, you do not find a way to qualify them. And with this selective ability to qualify, today we want to portray the organs and public media of Catalonia. With this ability they begin the motion explaining how to make the renewal of the Corporate Governance Council. But if it is you who have been rude and have blocked an agreement that would allow you to do so, yes, I am complementing the commitments made for the reform of the law. You're the ones who have been rude and blocked the agreement that had been reached because you don't want a pact with independence to hurt you to make a government agreement in Andalusia. The young lady is also told that the professionals are allowed to work. And Jenn Diaz also said so. All right, so tell Mr. Rivera that he doesn't want to ask you when the Heredia Lidia is interviewing him. Or take care that in their demonstrations they do not intimidate or attack TV3 journalists, Catalonia Radio and other Catalan media or a Telemadrid camera because they are committed to a TV3. And in point 4 they talk about offenses, but they always talk about gags of humor programs or certain uses of social networks of external collaborators. And today he improvised a misrepresentation of another program but not in the case of public media workers. Mirin, the offense is when The 1st of Spanish Television, on the Weekly Report program, an information not a humor program, put L'exorcista's music on the images of President Puigdemont. But this is already good for you, who had to report it was the professional council of Spanish Television, not you who did like the PP when they were members of the government and still justified it. More forward they speak of – and I quote – "the lack of informational objectivity and political neutrality. And you say, that you don't just want to ask your interviews but that you want to impose as well as explain the reality, that it's not about political prisoners, exiles, or the October 1 referendum, as you can do and do the free international media of the pressure that the Catalan public media have. And with your pressure and intimidation, TV3 and Catalunya Radio are used mostly euphemisms to talk about this reality. And they're still complaining about something they've already managed with this intimidation? And they end up talking – and again quoting – of "dark separatist editorial line." So look, I'll end up giving them a joy, TV3 is no longer a leader, it's been a long time since it is. The president of the Audiovisual Council explained it at the control committee and I'm doing it here today. Yes, it has to be logical. We take all separatist televisions, for one band, or so on, TV3, and we see that they have an audience of 13,3_per_cent. And now we take the main union televisions, not all of them, for another band: Telecinco, Antenna 3, the Sixth, The 1 and Four, by order of audience, and the joint audience is 40.5_per_cent; 40.5 to 13.3. Therefore, you do the TV3 adoption report when reality is this. And, therefore, the only thing they claim is that Catalonia's national television was assimilated to their way of thinking. That's what they want, but they won't get it because TV3 and Catalunya Radio are plural media recognizably and have professionals who have clear public service functions. And I want to end this Ple by referring to political prisoners in the name of fame and conveying our support and reflecting that their situation should be a disgrace to any Democrat. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.199.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers has the word the deputy, Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.200.0	Yes; on the exams, Mrs Ribas, I on your « fum-fum-fum the only thing I can tell you is to teach you this: « Give me the televisions, you have your other things left, – give me the televisions..., phrase of Pablo Iglesias and this he said publicly, it is not a thing that ever... [[Greetings.]] That's how we think about communication media. « Tourism councils, no, nonsense. Tourism Councils, no. Give me the news, I'll get along with them. That's how we can see the communication media. [[Widow's remorse.]] And then on the theme, on the capdavall, you, your thought the only thing I didn't want was for you to make the least criticism of TV3's separatist editorial line. [[Widow's remorse.]] Certainly, many of the voters – many of the voters – also feel very offended about what TV3 says when it comes to voters who are not separatists. Therefore, I do not understand this willingness to protect, to always cross the separatist parties. I can't wait to hear it. About Critics [[remorse of the voice]] ...sobriety of criticism...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.201.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.202.0	... ferotages there may have been on TV3, I want to remind them that the most spectacular thing I have read about TV3– and I say it to Mr. Riera, I say it to the Lord of Junts for Catalonia – is an article that was published in El Punt, when it wasn't El Punt Avui, Saturday 9 July 1994, written by a certain Carles Puigdemont, which is called Salmonel·losi. And he ends this writing saying: "With such a gasophy, probably the spectators who are victims of a psalmonel·losi television, in the summer, must be very watchful with food. That's Mr. Carles Puigdemont's TV3 opinion. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, when some of us try to make a constructive criticism to improve the public communication media in Catalonia, and read insults directly like these, we believe that, by decency, certain positions should be removed. Thank you, honourable Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.203.0	Let's go vote for the senate. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] You can vote the whole motion together. [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.204.0	We ask for a separate vote from point 1, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-13-2102.205.0	Point one, all right. We vote, so, therefore, point 1, first, of the motion. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 60 votes in favour, 68 against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. There are no more points to the order of the day; therefore, the session rises. Thank you very much.
