ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies, who are here today, and also good morning who cannot be there. The session begins. In the first place, and before announcing the order of the day, the records that there have been two delegations of votes solicited and approved by the Bureau, which have presented themselves in agreement with Rule 95 of the Rules, which are those of the deputy Jordi Sánchez, who has delegated his vote to the deputy of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia Mr Jordi Turull, and the deputy Oriol Junqueras, who has delegated his vote to Ms Marta Rovira, president of the Parliamentary Group Republic. The next item is the debate and vote on motions for resolutions and motions for resolutions. As all groups will remember... Yes, Mr. Carrizosa; why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.2.0	On a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.3.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.4.0	Yeah. We have submitted a request for reconsideration on the compromise amendments that have been tabled as a result of the rejection of our request for reconsideration. One of these compromise amendments contains some points that they say, which refer to the referendum of self-determination of Catalonia, of..., well, what they call the referendum of self-determination of Catalonia, of October 1, to which it is intended to give validity, and therefore expressly violates the order of the Constitutional Court, which has already referred to that, and requires an express agreement of the Bureau on its admission to procedure. I would also like to point out that the lawyers recommend that this point should not be allowed to proceed, as it is in conflict with the provisions of the Constitutional Court. We disagree with what has been done by the Bureau to reject the reconsideration; we believe that it has been prevaricated, that a crime has been committed by the Bureau admitting to procedure..., rejecting the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.5.0	Mr. Carrizosa, he's outnumbered 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.6.0	Yes; for only to end, Mr President Torrent, is that the plenary cannot begin until the review by this parliamentary group is seen. And remember again that these transactions have been made on amendments that should not have been admitted...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.7.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you no longer have the word...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.8.0	...as they clashed against what was foreseen by the Constitutional Court... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.9.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you know perfectly well, because you are aware of the Rules, that article 38 makes the time when the Ple already declines the possibility of submitting reconsiderations. Plus, his group... [[Widow's remorse.]] The Ple has begun. [[Widow's remorse.]] In any case, please, ask for orders and that interventions are made according to the regulatory procedures. [[Widow's remorse.]] A time has begun the Ple, Mr. Carrizosa, you know perfectly well, because the possibility of presence... [[Funnel veils]] , to ask for reconsiderations. And in any case your parliamentary group, through the two members of the Bureau, has been able to express itself openly and in addition to the Bureau we have just held. Let's continue with the celebration of the order of the day. [[Pause.]] We say there are five... Mr. Mirror, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.10.0	Because you, as a member of the Bureau who is a member of a parliamentary group and I am not a member of the Bureau because I am a parliamentary group, I am a second vice-president. If you want, I'll clarify my position. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.11.0	Mr Mirror, you are in the condition that you are at the table, you were able to express yourself freely at the table, we were able to listen to you all folds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.12.0	Actually, it's just that I was already warning you that the review that you're saying that you've introduced yourself once started the Ple..., that's not it; that's before you started the Ple, and I can prove it to the Registry. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.13.0	I insist, we follow the order of the day of the plenary. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Please ask them to speak as recommended by the Rules of Parliament, with order and above all with education, please. [[Pause.]] Anyway, now that I have the request... [[Widow's remorse.]] If you'll excuse me... [[Pause.]] The request for reconsideration refers to agreements for admission to the proceedings, agreements which have not been submitted to the Bureau; therefore, there is no objection to reconsideration. I insist, the Bureau was able to... [[Funnel veils]] There was talk of everything, but there was no admission agreement, as, on the other hand, there is never in the case of transactions. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Please, Mr. Carrizosa... I gave you the word, I'll give you fifteen more, and we'll proceed with the order of the day of the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.14.0	We want clarification as to whether or not the compromise amendments have been accepted, because if the compromise amendments have not been accepted, they are the ones that have been adopted after the review that we have put in place. And there are no others. And then we demand that we know that this is what is going to be voted on in this chamber in due time. If no transactions have been admitted, they have not been admitted, and if they have been admitted, we want reconsideration, because we have presented it before this plenary begins. And if you're not willing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.15.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you've passed... again you've passed the time of fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.16.0	...if you are willing to take the word out of the majority group of this chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.17.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you no longer have the word...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.18.0	...it seems to us, Mr. President, that we are already... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.19.0	Mr. Carrizosa, Mr. Carrizosa... Mr. Carrizosa, asks you to contemplate the Rules also for which you do, I insist, to education. Listen, there has been no admission agreement to the Bureau, as the other band is always doing and as stipulated in the Rules. You yourself have also submitted other transactions which, in fact, have not included an admission process to the Bureau because it does not exist on a regular basis. It has been done as is normally done with transactions. Yes; we follow the order of the Day of the Plea. [[Pause. José María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa.]] Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.20.0	For a regulatory question, concerning Article 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.21.0	So he's making a call to the Rules, you know?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.22.0	Correct.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.23.0	All right. Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.24.0	Yeah. Rule 37d, if I am not mistaken, says that the Bureau must qualify and admit to court, admit or refuse to court, the writings of Parliament. A transactional theme is a writing of parliamentary indulgence. I'd like to know, because how I'm at the table and I still don't know, whether or not he agreed to bring in the transactional item referred to by the representative of the majority group of this chamber. Because, if you've admitted to transit, you have right to reconsider it, and if you haven't admitted to transit, it's that you can't even vote. And the Rules are very clear. And I'm calling the Rules to the same president of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.25.0	Mr. Vice President, I don't know if it's too much for you and I to go into a debate in the House. In any case [[remorse of the voice]] Listen to me, Mr. Vice President, I have the word "I" and you don't have it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I have the word myself, Mr. Vice President... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. All right. So, honourable Member, I remind you that, in the case of transactions, it has always been the same way, I insist, as it is the case with the Rules, and there is no admission to a formal transaction, as there is no other band, nor in the House, when the motions for resolutions are addressed to the plenary, or to the committees, when they are a fan of commissions. Therefore, the Bureau and this Parliament have proceeded as is normally done, and there is no record, because there is no formal agreement to proceed. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Please. Please, Congressman! Please! I have been forced to call the order and that, indeed, what the Rules say is a pleasure. Let us continue with the order of the day of the plenary. As you know, five motions for resolutions have been tabled... Why ask me the word, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.26.0	In order to ask that the Legal Services of the Chamber, as they have done, as the second Vice-President has just told us during the Bureau, whether or not this transaction is admissible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.27.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you know perfectly well that this, in any case, does not happen; the readers have also manifested themselves at the table and we have been able to listen to them in relation to exactly the argument I was presenting. We're still on the order of the day. They know that there have been five motions for resolutions: the first motion for a resolution was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pom; the second by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar; a third by the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya; a fourth by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans; and a second by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party. As you know, the Spokesman's Board agreed on the order of intervention, that the debate on all these motions for resolutions would be pooled – so there would be only one debate – and we would then proceed to the vote on these motions for resolutions. The order of the debate was also agreed at the Board of Spokesmen that it would be by order of entry to the register of motions for resolutions. [[Motion for a resolution on the restoration of self-government, the sovereignty of Parliament and the unlocking of the internal market]] [[250-00024/12]] Therefore, and in the first place, Mr Xavier Domènech has the word, in order to defend the motion for a resolution submitted for his group. Yes; let me – Mr.Domenech – also warn that, as it was stipulated to the Board of Portaveus, it was agreed that the speaking time was fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.28.0	Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. I am very pleased that this House which we proposed two weeks ago, the Unlocking House, is able to celebrate, and I am very happy that we are beginning a more political debate, that we are not starting a technical legal debate, that I believe that, although some people tend to post as true advocates of what concerns citizenship, I am sure that these spectators do not worry about citizenship, do not help unblocking and do not help to clarify. The Parliament of Catalonia – and I think it's worth remembering – here, where we are today all insured and insured, founded on 6 December 1932; has a lot of history. He presided over a gentleman named Lluís Companies. And, moreover, in that Parliament, what would be the future president of the Republic of Catalonia, Francesc Macià, made clear what was the meaning of the establishment of the Government of Catalonia and of the foundation of that Parliament: to open the door to fighting against the aspirations and illusions of all Catalans – all Catalans, absolutely all of them – in all our immense and rich diversity, and to represent, also, the city of Catalonia; "for you, honourable Members and Members – he said only " MPs, at that time; MPs and MPs", "after more than two hundred years of mutating, he will speak again Catalonia". This is what we come to represent here, the representation of the collective and different will of all the people of Catalonia. It is worth remembering our origins, our origins, therefore, in the self-government of Catalonia, and it is worth remembering it at a time like this, in these historical moments that we are living. Because there have been truths – that for us they are absolutely obvious – that I think they have been missing for a long time. First truth. Catalonia's self-government is an aspiration of the Catalan people, not a reflex sea of the Autonomous State, not a sea tool usable according to interest and convenience, and what is certain is that, as representing the conjunction of the will of the Catalonian people, it is not alienable, it is not fragmentable, it is not possible to create other institutions that intend to alienate this representation. And it's not because when that's done, and especially when that's done representing only 47 percent of Catalonia's citizenship, it's not just giving up the Parliament of Catalonia, it's giving up representing the people of Catalonia, it's giving up Catalonia. It is also another truth – that for us it is absolutely clear from the aspiration of the self-government of Catalonia and the people of Catalonia to the full extent of its history – that the self-government of Catalonia is very pre-emptive of the Spanish Constitution, that the self-government of Catalonia is something that is lacking in the aspirations of the people of Catalonia, and that, as an absolute pre-emptive element, it cannot be intervened absolutely legitimately and, we consider – and for this reason we have lodged an appeal – unconstitutionally, by order of 155. There are truths that I think they are important to remember at these moments. When we asked for the initiative to ask for the plebiscite, which is celebrated today, we were convinced that there is no longer enough for the destiny of the people of Catalonia to be decided by the Government of the State, that it is not enough for a minority group in Catalonia to decide who are the political lines to be taken, but also that there is not enough to see as in the situation that we are living, of sugar, as in the country, we are constantly witnessing debates that are more party, of power, than not country. We don't deserve this, the city of Catalonia, right now. (Applause.) In a moment of uncertainty – because this is a moment of uncertainty for all the people of Catalonia; it is to say, you probably have many certainties, but the conjunction of Catalonia's citizenship at these moments is living deep uncertainties – we must return to the values originating from the self-government of Catalonia. And for Catalonia in Comú These original values can be transparent debates. The city of Catalonia is immensely mature. When you're dealing with it exaggeratingly, building symbols and not politics, you're dealing with the city as if you can't know the great truths of the moment you're living. Recovery from self-government, yes, recovery from self-government. It's enough to undermine Catalonia's self-government at these times, enough to undermine it; it's one of the great tools of our country. And truths– truths–, and truths as ever; there is enough not to tell the truths. And in this sense are these principles that can get us out of the current situation. In fact, it seems that, only to propose this plethora of unlocking that we have proposed to us, you, those who have the capacity and, therefore, not only the capacity, but the responsibility to form government, have advanced for miles in which in the last two months it has not been possible to advance. And, in fact, now we see how they already have an investment proposal; but it's an investment proposal that counts that it doesn't lead us to major blockages – it counts that it doesn't lead us to major blockages. Because, of course, Jordi Sànchez for us has all the right to be invested president of the Generality of Catalonia, there is all the right; but we know that it will probably not be the fastest right to regain self-government. And here there is a question of foundations, there is an absolutely question of foundations: either the self-government of Catalonia is used as a tool purely to denounce, legitimately– but it is not legitimate to use the self-government of Catalonia for this–, to denounce legitimately a situation of absolute democratic abnormality... Because when this is done one may think that it is boycotting the State, and that auto-boycott is being made to the same. And if he's autoboying himself, look, but he's autoboying himself all the way from Catalans to Catalans. [[Some applause.]] Either we do this or we recover the self-government of Catalonia as a tool of all Catalans and Catalans, to start walking, to overcome the current situation at once. And it's the obvious mass – it's the obvious mass – that when it's traded out of the legitimists – it's the obvious mass – it's the sudden mass – it's the sudden mass. Because, forgive me, if Mr. Puigdemont could not go to court, he could not appear before the Supreme Court because of the calibre – and he said so – to preserve the presidency of the Government of Catalonia from being in prison, now as they explain to us that they are proposing a president who is in prison? How do they explain this to us? I mean, isn't what it was worth before now? We need strategies, not tactics. This mass smokes with the country to offer only tactics that change every day. We're clearly in a historical crucible. We have self-government intervened, illegally and illegitimately, as social leaders and Roman politicians in prison. And with exhaustion – to say the least – total and absolute of everything that had been said. Today, in this House, we have seen a re-edition, a re-edition attempt: Mr. Carrizosa has risen..., there were some elements... But let's face it: everything he said didn't happen. There was no structure of the state, there was no recognition of anyone... It was nothing more than everything that had been explained for a long time to the city of Catalonia. A strategy that, moreover, has been exhausted and that in its exhaustion – and it is noted so much, and it knows hard –..., when the debate on the full road, the debate on which are the country's prospects for the future to the next legislature is converted into a debate on legitimacy, into a debate on how we fit a political figure, it is clear that there is no prospect of the future – it is clear that there is no prospect of the future. The debate on legitimacy is one's own denial of which is the political proposal. A strategy, moreover, that of unilateralism, which has failed frustrating one part of the country, which expected much, and leaving it out another part. Because if the result of the 21st of December elections certainly gives you a majority, and they are certainly a clear-cut rebroadcast at 155, I think it is also clear that, if anyone claimed to do so, it is not a legitimation of the DUI. And I think we need to be able to operate from this reality and from this truth – from this reality and from this truth. Because, besides, in these past debates, the country can't wait any longer – it can't wait any longer. They can't wait any longer for the forty-thousand people who are waiting for guaranteed income; they can't wait any longer for the hundred and twenty families of Sant Joan Despi to take them out for Goldman Sachs's money; they can't wait any longer for a debate about the Catalan public media, that while they are living one of the most detailed of history seems that the only important debate about them is who remains what – who remains what –: party, power, again, not country – leaves, power, again, not country. Perhaps the clearest example of what I am talking about, what we are patenting and what we are living on is the situation of the Catalan public school. 155, who had told us that it was a 155 technique, at these times it became a tool to question one of the great consensuses of this country, which is the model of linguistic immersion. And not only because of this, but also because it has taken advantage of it, in contravention of the Resolution of the Parliament of Catalonia of 27 June, which specifically stated that it is not possible to continue devoting public resources to sex-segregated schools, in contravention of this, the Government of the State has decided to dedicate these concerts to these schools. A 155-technician? A 155 non-political? That is why we are asking..., and in our motion for a resolution we are asking for a majority recollection of the chamber in the statement that the Parliament of Catalonia, as a legitimate and legal representative of the will of the people of Catalonia, is firm in the model of Catalan public school that we have, and that this serves because the Department of Education does not proceed, the first fortnight of March, to renew these economic concerts. In fact, these are the great fights that enjoin the social majority of Catalonia, this is the way we need to rebuild. Not only rebuild: move forward, effectively move forward. There is an aspiration of the people of Catalonia that went far beyond the autonomous state, it is obvious. But in order to move forward we need to rebuild, not legitimate debates, not constant debates about seeing how we got faster against the wall – not constant debates about seeing how we got faster against the wall. Because there is no return possible; for a very basic thing, if they want it: today it is no longer yesterday, and it would be expected that we would start building tomorrow and not get caught yesterday. There is no return possible, because the Speaker of the Parliament is no longer the Speaker of the Parliament. There is no return possible when one part of the government – Vice President Junqueras – still in prison, while another part is in freedom, yes, but in protected freedom at these times. It is not so when a part of the population of Catalonia..., or, no, the majority of the population of Catalonia still has an impact on what our October days meant; some days that, in fact, saw the frailness of the State and opened bridges of solidarity and possibilities for change to Catalonia, Spain and Europe, which closed the day that in a palau, locked in a few miscarriages, decided that all that capital would become a declaration that it immediately failed. 'Cause it's like yesterday, 'cause we're done with the full route. What are they talking about? They're talking legit. The country needs a future, not just legitimate; at least, at the moment, we haven't heard much about it. Because you, right now, are not doing anything to start building this new beginning that you need. We need a new start. Probably too much exhausted in the past, trapped in a present that I hope soon comes out, sometimes gives the feeling, to you, that they are willing to form government, that unites them more the past than the future. And that's worrying, because the country needs future, not just past. The unlock effectively passes through the recovery of self-government, and not to consider it merely a sacrificial tool in a fight that, in the end, is against us and ourselves; for the defense of this Parliament as representing the will of the people of Catalonia, not substitutable, not fragmentable. If you defend the sovereignty of Catalonia, you must defend this Parliament. To leave... to tell you the truth, sometimes the most revolutionary there can be is not like building the argument that legitimizes you, but facing the reality as it is. Because dreams are built from reality, they don't make you see that you don't have it in front of you. And in this sense they also go on to form a great social and democratic bloc for the rights and freedoms in Catalonia and Spain, to follow the path that has already followed many and many, the path that they too – and in this sense I am the hand of the Socialist Party of Catalonia – they are following many leaders of their own to the mayors. We believe that we have no more, that we have no more to get up at once, to get up to build, and where we all have to work and fight to get a country freer, more just and more solidarity. We all have to work and fight because these fruits are not just from our people, but shared with the German people. We are not free if our Germans are not free, we are weak if we do not make our German peoples strong too. And we commit ourselves to this, we commit ourselves here and we commit ourselves to Spain. We commit ourselves to working, to fighting, to fighting, to the classes, to institutions and to parliaments, where we need to, to open a new stage that leaves behind what we are living, a new stage that we all deserve: those who are here, those who are out and those who are out of here, Catalonia. And this compromise that we impose ourselves as the group also asks. We must be responsible not for the things we have experienced, but for what we are living, but above all for what we deserve to live. This isn't just a fight for one or another, it's not just a fight for one block or another. It is a struggle for freedom to be and live as a people, as a whole people, in all our immense diversity. As Macia said, Catalans, all of them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.29.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. [[Motion for a resolution on the agreement and the change]] [[250-00053/12]] Now is the return of Mr. Miquel Iceta, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.30.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first reflection I want to share with all of you revolves around the idea of respect. From our parliamentary group we want to affirm from the very first moment our respect for all the political options represented in Parliament. Among all we represent the people of Catalonia, and Socialists and Units to advance we respect, therefore, all the political expressions present in Parliament. Even though we deny them neither catalanity nor democratic character, we all offer respect and dialogue. I believe that respect for people, respect for ideas, respect for institutions and respect for the law should be the best starting point for a legislature that, from our point of view, should be quite different from the previous one. Respect does not imply condescension, nor does it pretend to conceal discrepancies; we have them, and they are profound. Not only do we not share the independence project, but we believe that it harms our country, but we deeply respect those who think otherwise. A respect that must be especially observed by those who have institutional responsibilities at any level, without ever forgetting that, whatever their personal political position, they must make an effort to represent everyone, so as not to mismatch the image of the institutions that are of all. I address the chamber of responsibility and shared consciousness that we are not doing our job. We have been chosen as deputies and deputies and we cover to perform this function, but we are already a _month late in the investiture of a new president. If you continue to apply Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution because there is no government, waiting for the agreement between the independenceists, and only the terms run. And there are many people waiting for our response, our proposals, our push pocket and government control. We expect 162,742 minors who live in homes with severe material deprivation. Guardian children who have passed into the prison of the City of Justice, to the Forensic Anatomical, and now sleep in the past of a residential center of educational action. Twenty-thousand families are waiting for an appointment to join the guaranteed income of citizens. Thousands of people without habitat; a 25_percent of the denouncements produced by all of Spain have a place in Catalonia. Someone has to pass accounts for the ATLL contest nyap, and someone has to suspend the 11.8_per_cent increase in water price for this year. Many students expect us to approve a moratorium on the knowledge of a third language while the means are not put in place to make it possible. We are the autonomous community with the longest waiting lists in the matter of aid to dependence; the waiting lists are also growing for surgical interventions, emergency services in hospitals are collapsing and we have people attached to the past. These are problems that we are talking about, and we do not yet have a government that approaches them and to which to urge, from this Parliament, to action. Absence of government harms the economy. And political paralysis generates instability, inequality, erosion of social and poor rights. And the heaviest ones are, in the end, the most harmed. Set_Millions_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans want us to set out. We need a government; a government that is dealing with problems, that governments for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans. And the last meeting of the Government of Catalonia was held on October 24th of last year, a long time ago. It's time for a new government, think what it thinks about the future of Catalonia, take care of the problems and the longings of the Catalans, not just on the one hand. I'm thinking of the citizens who are still worried and looking at door-to-door negotiations on the part of those who are filling their mouths with democracy, participation and transparency. Today, we don't know how many presidents we'll have, how many will be true and how many of them will be. And, sometimes, we've seen more difficulty in deciding who's to run TV3 than who's to run the generality. Set_millions_i_mig of Catalans have the right that Parliament is dissolved if, in a reasonable way, the legislature is not set aside. I don't think anyone deserves what's going on, you voted what you voted for. As a matter of fact, we have to put the clock on the go and that is why we have put forward a motion for a resolution which, without assigning any responsibility to anyone, intends to provide certainty to everyone. We have also brought an appeal before the Constitutional Court in defence of our rights as parliamentarians and deputies, who are also the rights of the citizenry we represent, and we will do so whenever we want. But we would consider ourselves to be more than a decision of the House of Commons that unlocked the situation, if indeed this is the Ple of Unlocking, joining us to what the House's readers said, when they pointed out, and I quote, "an act equivalent to the first vote of investiture as a mechanism to set aside the clock, since the vote of investiture did not occur, as our law says, "days after the constitution of Parliament". Since the first day we have been asserting our political position in this beginning of the legislature. In the first place, Parliament and Government should act permanently in the constitutional and statutory framework in force, respecting the legal mechanisms and majorities necessary to reform it. Secondly, it seems appropriate not to choose persons who cannot fully exercise their responsibilities in order to prevent the legislature from being mortgaged for ongoing judicial proceedings. Finally, in the third place, it would constitute a stable government, able to ensure an efficient management of the generalities and resources and to open a negotiation with the institutions of the State. Our proposal for a resolution rejects these criteria. We have had, these weeks, to fight the pilgrim idea of an investiture at a distance or by delegation, and also the joke of a telematic government. I take this opportunity to say that we consider the candidatures for president or for being members of the Government of persons who are involved in an open court procedure, whether or not they are in pre-trial detention. We respect, of course, the presumption of innocence, but we do not believe that these people can devote themselves fully to the tasks that are being ordered, which require full availability and maximum freedom of action. Logically, those affected must concentrate on preparing their defence, and this, for many reasons, can limit their ability to act. And our obligation as Members is to give our country as many institutions as possible. Moreover, the decision to entrust governance tasks to persons affected by a judicial process, whether or not it is apparent, will indicate a continuity or discontinuity in respect of the previous legislature, and in this we want to be especially clear: from our point of view, there is no feeling of re-editing, nor that it is symbolically, a path that has failed. And, in fact, if we consider that the process starts with the 2012 elections, it is difficult to rebut that in these years there has been no advent in terms of self-government or finance; no new competition, no more resources, no more investments, no bigger projects. And if we do the narrow balance of the previous legislature, it is obvious that the unilateral and illegal path has failed. There was no talk of recovering a republic that was not born and that left us a country that was more divided and poorer, with institutions that were intervened and with the prestige that was hardly eroded. They promised things that couldn't be completed, and that it was known that they couldn't be completed. That is why it says, indeed, "I deceive, and some have been forced to recognize it either before the judge or before a microphone – which, depending on how, has more merit. There was nothing prepared, there was no international support. The decision to make a reference – that after hearing statements in your court of law you no longer know whether it was real or symbolic – or to make a unilateral declaration of independence – that after hearing statements in your court of law you no longer know whether it was real or symbolic – has had enormous political, economic, social and personal costs. We ask them to respect the principle of reality. The only democratic legitimacy, and we do not recognize any other, emanates from this Parliament and is built for the State and the Constitution, as many have recognized and assumed before the trial. No councils of the Republic, no assemblies of elects, no symbolic acts in Brussels, can replace this Parliament and the president and government exits from the chamber. They don't think that only you represent them, as if only you belong to their republic. More than that, the institutional unfolding that some seem to claim can do nothing but erode our institutions of truth, self-governing institutions set up for the State and the Constitution and which, in effect, contain a historical continuity of segles. It must be clear to respect: any attempt to create or build a parallel legitimacy, even though it is intended only to be symbolic – which would be recognised by one side of Catalan citizenship, but denied by the laws and the other side of the citizenry – is still caught up in the conflict. To overcome it, it is necessary to rebuild the democratic consensus around the institutions of all Catalan citizens and to build the future folds from here, starting for respect and following for reconciliation, to open a path of reforms. Respect, reconciliation and reforms should preside over this new legislature. The 6th and 7th of September broke into this hemicle mass things. The imposition of part-by-part criteria for regulations and laws, climbing the rights of minorities, was the prelude to a disaster that could only end in the intervention of self-government institutions by the State. Many of us have warned. And that's why this legislature has to take a very different path. Trenching with the law brought us to 155. Nor do we want to remove the responsibility of those who have not been able to open a path of dialogue and negotiation, of those who have only been able to convey the problem to justice and have not been able to give any other answer than police repression. But I come back to demand the acceptance of the principle of reality, the recognition of the primacy of the Statute and the Constitution, which should be, as some leaders have done before the court, a good starting point to ensure that this legislature will be quite different from the previous one. We believe that this legislature should start thinking about the city council and not just in one part, for a number of reasons. From our point of view, we cannot address the question of relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain without recognizing that it first promotes a great deal of respect between Catalans; an agreement that does not exist now. There is no doubt that the independence forces have a parliamentary majority that enables them to govern, if they are in agreement with a government, a president and who runs on TV3; but, in change, there is no democratic mandate for independence; a mandate that, on the other hand, could never be unilaterally and unlawfully re-elected, as has already been proven. In fact, if what is meant is to change the institutional framework, which is very legitimate, it must be done through the reform mechanisms, which are necessary for the General Courts, in a process that can start in Parliament with a majority of at least two thirds of the chamber. And there are no two thirds of Parliament, nor of society, willing to move forward in a process that is neither in the drafting of the Constitution, nor of the Catalan Republic. You know that and you just reminded us of the CEO's latest study, I don't want to insist on it. The Catalan tradition that we share with many is based on the defense of civil unity and social cohesion, and it is no less to remember that, sometimes, we want to speed up the frantic consensus that causes reactions to the contrary. And the polarization that triggered the debate about independence is not a good show. Please read the election results correctly, which is not so difficult. I reiterate our conviction that the division of the Catalan society into two blocs, unable to dialogue between them, will not only make us move forward, but is making us back. That's why we try not to fall into a frontalistic mood and commit ourselves to working with all those who share this conviction. We believe that Catalonia is on condition of settling major self-government, better finance and an active role in the transformation of Spain and Europe, all folded through a path of dialogue, negotiation and pact. But, as I said, this requires, before anything else, an agreement between the Catalans, a very majority agreement. And we're hearing a lot about presidential candidates, about candidates to be advisors and advisors, about whom I want to run on TV3, but we're not hearing people talking about which politics you want to do. And the first question to ask is simple: is the mark valid or not? Caldria end this peculiar situation in which people say one thing in public and another in private. Of the same fact there are many versions, that of the WhatsApp of the convinced, that of the media, that which is before the judgment and that which is confessed in private. Perhaps the papers presented for the CUP had the virtue of clarifying the true intentions of everyone: this was to continue the logic of the previous legislature or to seek out among all the other exits after seeing the fracture, the enormous costs and the risks of the virtual, unilateral and illegal republic? Then, logically, questions will come up about priorities and concrete orientations of the various policies on which the Generality has competences, and also about the willingness to open a dialog, first Catalonia, and then Catalonia. Our group is at the disposal of any effort, any sacrifice for the benefit of necessary reconciliation. But we want to be very clear: only the respect of legality provides the basis on which to build and expand consensus. In this sense, we will vote in favour of the proposals for the resolution of the rest of the groups, taken from that of Junts per Catalunya, which contained many elements of continuity with the previous legislature, which we would have liked to soon forget and overcome. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.31.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. [[Proposal for a resolution on the restitution of Catalan institutions]] [[250-00054/12]] The words "Mr Quim Torra", on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.32.0	Many honourable presidents of this chamber, councillors and councillors of the legitimate government of Catalonia, ladies and gentlemen, follow my first words from this lamenting Faristol that we are not all here today. It's obvious that here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, we're not all here. That is to say, there are not all the deputies that the people of Catalonia voted in the elections of 21st December. An obviacy that fixes the precise and exact point of the absolute abnormality of Catalan political life, on which... some of them are already fine, others, pretend to pass them from points, as if nothing happened, as if this were possible in a state of right and democratic, as if in this house, from the word, from the debate, from ideas and from the discussion, it is possible to deprive of the word, from the debate, from ideas and from the discussion the representatives of the people. Today there are neither the President of the Generality, who is in exile, nor the Vice President, who is in prison. Today I can't speak to Councillor Comín, because he's also in exile, nor can he argue with us Jordi Sánchez, because he's in prison. And in prison there is also Councillor Quim Forn, and the friend and president of Jonnium Jordi Cuixart, and in exile, the Councillors Serret and Ponsatí, Councillor Puig and former Member of this chamber Anna Gabriel. To denounce this brutality, this abnormality is our first obligation and we will not tire of doing it every time we take the word into this hemisphere. It is obvious, too, that the walls that surround and form part of the recent history of Catalonia, these walls, are the witnesses present of the Catalan institutions. But these Catalan institutions don't come from the Spanish constitution, but they come from a lot more far, and they pretend to go further, as far as the people of Catalonia come. But without respect for this will, in the face of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, "the Government of Madrid closed the doors of this hemisphere, as if our own self-government belonged to them, and not to the people. So the old metropolis does and undoes to its liking with its colonies. And it is clear, finally, that the institution of the Presidency of the Generality, chosen for this Parliament, is the highest authority, and responsible for the execution of power in Catalonia. The very honorable President Carles Puigdemont is the one-hundred-and-thirty president of an institution that is remunerated, his history, in the 14th century, and that when it has not been suppressed by the Spanish State has always been the representative and guarantor of Catalan freedoms. So, as is also known, the president of the Generality of Catalonia, his vice-president and the advisers who integrate the Council of Government of the Generality, under the despotism of people who are illustrated but unlimited in Article 155, were unlawfully ceased. This resolution, therefore, that we propose to manifest something that any free people of the world gives by means of: that the sovereignty of the rau people in the village; that we reject absolutely all democratic regression and any authoritarian drift from the State; that we reaffirm our commitment to the pau, the dialect, human rights and democratic radicality, and, above all – that they are loyal, scrupulously loyal, respecting the will of Catalans expressed at the polls. But also this resolution for us is still something more: it is the starting point of the Republican project that we want to propose to the citizenry of Catalonia. It can't be any other way. The poet Josep Carner already wrote to the Belgian exile in exile: "The first republican institution is the popular will. This popular will precisely gave the absolute majority of this chamber to parties defending Catalonia's independence and its constitution in a republic-like state. Another of the points that contemplates and praises this resolution, today that precisely five months ago, is the day that will forever mark our generation, the 1st of October, the day of Catalonia's self-determination referendum. Against a helpless people and with their hands lifted up in a signal, the police and the Civil Guard carried with an unheard-of and inverse rape in a state of law. All the red rats, all of them, from offense to human dignity, were pierced and overcome. Any prediction of the brutality that man could have imagined was short. October 1st all the world was able to see how the most basic rights of any person were attacked: their physical integrity, their security, their freedom of expression, their inalienable right to decide personally and collectively. On that day, writer Jaume Cabré, Honorary Prize of Catalan Letters, published an article in the newspaper Ara entitled "I saw October 1. And he said: "I have seen the courage, the courage of the people of my country, who have gone out into the street massively knowing that they are not just the police and civilian guards who will distribute mastegotes. I've seen a whole people defending their freedom with their hands and dignity. The Catalans, I repeat, have the duty to never forget everything that we have seen, without keeping any sense of hatred or resentment, but only an infinite sadness for those who allowed that violence, fraternal solidarity with those who suffered it and an imprescriptible appeal to justice, because the guilty are judged and condemned. Because you don't have any doubts, it will do justice, and as long as it does. All that went on in that trepidating month of October where everything was possible was the formidable illusionary, vibrant, civic mobilization of a country for a legitimate cause, until the end of the day of October 27th, in which it was declared politically the independence of Catalonia. And, unfortunately, the response of the Spanish institutions was never a political response, but repressive to all levels, from security forces to the perverse use of judicial institutions. The result, we have in sight, of this 155; a direct impact on the lives of the citizens: paralysis of projects, economic offensive, suspension and lack of jobs in hospitals, paralysis of implementations of policies already agreed, freezing of subsidies in the third sector. In the worst, precisely, that's where 155, somehow, meant more. And, also, the hardest consequences of the authoritarian drift of the Spanish State, we saw them when social leaders and members of the legitimate government of Catalonia were engaged: Dolors, Raül, Josep, Jordi, many thanks for everything. All those poor people who have been campaigning for the democratic policy of this country ever since. The persecution by ideological and thought motive against those citizens who aspire to the independence of Catalonia, and would also like to make it concrete in the members of this chamber who are patenting this, precisely, an ideological persecution: thanks, Carmel, Anna, Lluís, Ramona, Lluís and Joan Josep. It has materialized in them, but also in hundreds of charges, investigations, complaints, fines, citations, identifications, with the intention of censoring freedom of speech and creating an atmosphere of irrespirable fear and fear. And so we've seen masters, directors, mayors, informatics, activists, journalists, students, comics, humorists investigate. End of story, mechanics – end of story, mechanics. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.33.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.34.0	To all of them – to all of them – from our group, we want to get them our support, our admiration and our solidarity. [[Perlongats applause.]] We are not proud, we are very proud of the response of the people, who have been the best, to the height of the country's critical moment. The Catalan society, which is today a society that feels free, critical, empowered, and who does not understand this will not understand anything, has made it clear that the best way to defend the country and its institutions was, that is, the civic, peaceful, firm, resistant and democratic attitude. And so he made it clear in the 21st of September elections, holding an undisputed victory to the independence and republican bloc, as a result he endorsed the very honorable President Carles Puigdemont, to be confirmed his confidence as President. This fact, of an absolute democratic purity, has caused the Spanish State to teach one of its darkest – another – and ridiculous cares, if I may say so, almost literally to try to prevent it. All the powers of the Spanish State have mobilised for this purpose, in a sophisticated version of the '' to them, changing hands for the lead to dictate judgments when they have convinced. Unthinkable quotas of democratic indecency have been met, pressing state councils, conditioning the wills of the judges of the constitutional courts..., an authentic spectacle. It's still worth it in a state that, as Councilman Turull says, more than a state of right is a state that pulls for the right. So, well, our answer is clear: the very honorable President Carles Puigdemont is still counting on the parliamentary majority sufficient, out of the ballot box and revalidated on 21 December, to be able to ratify his confidence as President. But allow me to hang here for a moment: what happens to the Spanish State with the presidents of Catalonia? How could most Catalan presidents have been jutjats, entrepreneurs or exiles? [[Widow's remorse.]] Do I list them? I make the list: Francesc Macià, exile; Lluís Companies, enterprise, exile, handed over by the Gestapo to the Spanish authorities and murdered; Josep Irla, death in exile; Josep Tarradellas, exile; Jordi Pujol, arrest and exile during the franchise [[strong remorse of the eyes]] ; Artur Mas, disqualified, arrested and investigated, and Carles Puigdemont...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.35.0	Please – please. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Deputy, one moment – one moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.36.0	...exile.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.37.0	Wait a minute, Congressman. Please respect who has the use of the word at this time, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.38.0	And I, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.39.0	You're gonna have to respect that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.40.0	...requested respect for who went to prison during the franchise to defend democratic freedoms. [[Greetings.]] So, Vice President Junqueras is in prison, and we have a really desolating picture. Is that normal? This has passed us under any of the Spanish political regimes: under the monarchy of Alfonso XIII, under the dictatorship..., under the Republic, pardon, and the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera and the Spanish Republic, the fascism of General Franco and with the Bourbon restoration of King Juan Carlos. Under all these rules, since a hundred years ago, the presidents of the Generalitat, therefore, either end up in prison or exile. What country of the world did something seem like? It doesn't seem normal to us, nor can we tolerate it. And, naturally – naturally – the only possible conclusion is that only with the Catalan Republic will they be free and our presidents will cease to be persecuted and retaliated. I'm done. Very honorable president, you said in your first speech in this room that you liked very much..., one of your favorite authors was Stephan Zweig. It's also mine, and it would be good if we could bastissimo this legislature on Stefan Zweig's principles. Zweig has a little known book – or not so much, at least, as his novels and his memoirs – which is called Castellio vs. Calví. The book is a delight to put the counterposition between two great characters. Calvi is the dictator, the tyranny, the man who created a theocratic dictatorship; in change, Castellio is a humble university professor who rises up against the dictatorship and oppression with the weapons of the word, of the naked word, and of the letter, to defend freedom and conscience. Zweig closes the book with an unforgettable ending, he says: "There will always be a Castle that rises up against any Calví, defending the sovereign independence of opinion before all violence exercised from power. In Catalonia we find ourselves right here, defending the independence of opinion and freedom of thought. For me it is an absolute gravity issue, probably the hardest fact that, in my opinion, we face this Catalan society. A general cause is being built against independence, which tempts the very essence of the West, the West: freedom of opinion, thought and expression. An impeccable formula has been built: "Independentist equal to guilty. Of what? As long as he's gone, they'll put whatever he is; but if you're an independentist, you're guilty. And what groups of this chamber fill with this fact and are prepared to collaborate with it, they want to silence the free word, which must fill any parliament, seems to me simply regrettable and ignominious. That is why today, and I conclude, we must say more than ever, very high, very clear, calmly, calmly, that no one will silence us, nor abdicate the principles and ideas that we defended yesterday, that we defended today and that we defend tomorrow. That is: that the cause of the liberty of Catalonia is a just cause, that the cause of the independence of Catalonia is a legitimate cause and that the cause of the Catalan Republic is an honorable cause. We do not think for a moment to give up nor a thousandfold to defend justice, legitimacy and the honorability of this cause. On the contrary, she pays the penalty to continue to struggle for her. And it's that we feel challenged by the citizenry to continue. I, after we go on, we'll go on. I, after we go on, we go on. For this reason, and thanking the trust of the groups that would fully or partially support this resolution, let's take down today's Republican project for Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.41.0	Thank you, Mr. Torra. [[Proposal for a resolution on unlocking the institutional and political crisis situation]] [[250-00055/12]] Now is the return of the Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.42.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the 1,100,000 citizens' votes today Parliament has been able to open. [[Greetings.]] Thanks to the 1,100,000 votes of Catalans. [[Greetings.]] This Plenary of the Unlocking, this Plenary which certainly serves for you to face and to open to transparency this Plenary, has served us I believe that for many things, which we will now comment on, but certainly to note that you have neither full of route, nor future, nor idea of government, nor project for all Catalans, nor anything at all. The representative of Mr Puigdemont's list should only be heard. Is that what the Catalans had to offer? Is that the full - route to make your independent republic a reality? How long will you, ladies and gentlemen of the Independence Party, keep this fiction, this farce, this lie that you do not believe? At least this plenary session has served so that you have to come here and face it. Because what is a shame is that a health committee has not been held in this Parliament since July, when we have hundreds of thousands of people on the waiting list. It's a shame. They should be ashamed of the fact that the first group of the opposition has to open up Parliament so that you have to come here and face it. [[Widow's remorse.]] And yet, they continue to hide and keep these speeches that you do not believe. It has also served us this plenary session to know that Mr Torrent is Mrs Forcadell 2.0, because he has done exactly the same thing. Mr Torrent makes his debut by doing the same thing as Mrs Forcadell, who is skipping the Constitutional Court's rulings, making this Parliament illegal and also without having the courage to acknowledge it publicly. Because then you hide in the regulations, in the lawyers of Parliament, and you don't even have the courage to come here and face the face, and say, "Yes, we were skipping the rulings of the Constitutional Court. And then, when they were before the judges, everything was symbolic: "No, if I knew nothing; no, if I only gave the word to a spokesman who asked me to do so. No more farce – no more farce. I take it many times: you are not only insulting the majority of Catalans who have not voted for you, you are not only obviating that majority of Catalans, when you speak' of the people of Catalonia who are flying over President Puigdemont. No, no, All the people of Catalonia do not want to receive President Puigdemont. That's not true. They don't just insult us, they don't marry us, they keep us out of the way, they're lying to their voters. They are not going to give them any independent Catalan republic. Stop lying to your voters and disrespecting our voters. Stop lying. [[Greetings.]] They have nothing to explain. You don't want a government in Catalonia to deal with problems with courage. They don't have a government idea for Catalonia. You don't want a president of the Generalitat or a president of the Generalitat. All you want is to extend the process. They don't want to rule, they don't want 155 to end, they don't want to prioritize. They want mess, mess and mess, because it has become, the mess of the process, in its modus vivendi, and they do not want its modus vivendi to end, because it is a modus vivendi. [[Greetings.]] Being independent in Catalonia is legitimate and respectable, what is not legitimate and respectable is lying to them as you are doing to them, promising them one thing that is not going to happen, generating false expectations that are not going to be met, breaking families for nothing, for a farce, for a lie that neither you believe – neither you believe. Stop trying to deceive the citizens of Catalonia, because the only thing they are getting is to divide us and affect us and harm all Catalans, those who have voted and those who have not voted. Because the process is the antithesis of Catalan reality. The process that you have built, in which you live very comfortably and therefore want to extend it, is the antithesis of the reality of Catalans. Because you're talking about 1714, you're settled in the past, in those nationalist accounts of exclusive identities so old-fashioned, and here people have to think about the future, how they're going to cover expenses, how they're going to pay the mortgage, how they're going to collect pensions. That's the reality of Catalans. You speak of the independent republic, and you have spent a lot of money on those embassies and on those state structures and on those estates that you needed, when in Catalonia we have the worst waiting lists of dependency in all of Spain, when in Catalonia we have more barracks than in the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain. You have spent money on things that have served nothing, or are going to serve anything, when right now – right now – there are 164,000 Catalans waiting for an operation in public health. You live in a fiction. Mr. Mas said: "Many companies will come. The banks will fight for coming. For more than three thousand companies have gone away, thanks to you. You said: « Spanish steals from us. And it turns out that those who stole from us were some of those who supposedly defended Catalonia and those of 3_per_cent. « Spanish steals from us..., they say, and it turns out that in Catalonia the working classes, the middle and working classes are the Spanish citizens who pay the most taxes, for their fiscal policy, for the autonomous portion of the taxes that the Generalitat has. And you have suffocated and continue suffocating the pockets of Catalans to maintain structures that will serve no purpose. And you know it. If you recognize it with your gaze in today's session, that you know that this is a fiction, and that you will be able to extend it a little longer, but that the day will come when you will have to look into the eyes of the Catalans – I don't think you have to do this, but yours – and you will have to acknowledge that you have lied to them, and that, from an independent republic, nothing, that was a fiction, and that you knew it. And I find it outrageous, the families that are breaking up, the opportunities that we are missing, the debates that we could have with consensus in this Parliament if we did not have this obsession with the process, which is its modus vivendi. You live in that process, which is the antithesis of the reality of Catalans. You speak of a social majority that supports you. Have you seen the outcome of the election? Have you seen that you have won a parliamentary force, called Citizens, that does not want the independence of Catalonia, not even a referendum of independence of Catalonia? Have you seen that if you have seventy deputies and a majority in this Parliament it is because there is an unjust electoral law that the People's Party and the Socialist Party have wanted to maintain, and that is why you are very Spanish, in order to comply with that Spanish law, because you love that Spanish law? Don't you see? [[Greetings.]] Don't you see even the CEO who makes the Generalitat de Catalunya himself, who says that support for independence continues to fall and that he is 40_per_cent? It's very legitimate to have any ideology. Catalonia is diverse, and all ideologies must be respected. But lying to your own voters, with a fiction that you know is a lie is unworthy, it is unworthy. They're dividing Catalan society for nothing. Before some speakers who preceded me in the use of the word said: "No, it is that you only govern, only think for the independenceists and for the part of the independenceist population. I don't even agree. They have not ruled for anyone, not even those to whom they have enticed, to whom they have given an account. Not even for them, because the consequences of their mismanagement, of their lack of project, of their plugs, like ATLL, of management – that to see if we open the Parliament so that you have to come here to face those plugs – are affecting all Catalans, all of us, all of us. [[Greetings.]] In your Matrix of the process, you said: "No, at international level we will have a lot of support. Europe will not allow the Government of Spain to implement the Constitution. That you are alone, that you have no support from any country in the European Union, neither the European Parliament, nor the European Commission, nor the Council. No one. There's Mr. Puigdemont and Mrs. Gabriel, these anti-capitalists in a very anti-capitalist country like Switzerland, isn't there? And the reality is that the ones left in Catalonia are the self-employed, the families and the workers who cannot run away as you do, because they have to stay here paying the bills. That is the reality of Catalonia versus the fiction of the process. Look, they've been living in the process so long, they've forgotten Catalonia and Catalans. And in the end, reality will come and realism will come. Because, I tell you one thing, you haven't changed at the moment. Today Mr. Torrent has done the same as Mrs. Forcadell. Today, the intervention on Mr Puigdemont's list remains unconfirmed, remains in his fiction. But they've seen the plumer. And do you know one thing that has changed? Because you haven't changed, but one thing that has changed is that Catalonia has awakened. You've gone so far from braking, you've seen so much the plumer, you've awakened that silenced Catalonia. And when the ballot boxes were opened, there were many votes of people who had been voting for a long time, or who might have never voted in elections in Catalonia. Because you guys in Catalonia never wanted to see it, never wanted to give it a voice. It was a silenced Catalonia. And I insist, if you continue to have a majority of seats, it is because there is an unjust electoral law, because you do not have a majority of votes, you do not have a majority on the street as you do in Parliament, by an unjust law that to see if we wake up the constitutionalist parties and bipartisanism wants to change too, so that these injustices do not occur. But do you know what else has changed? Not only has Catalonia awakened. Spain, the whole of Spain, has awakened, and a feeling of normal civil patriotism has reawakened, as in the rest of the countries of the European Union. And that's what you guys have done, as bad as it gets. That's why we have to thank you, for awakening Catalonia and awakening the feeling of Spanish civic patriotism, of the pride of feeling oneself of a land like Catalonia, of a great land like Catalonia, of a great country like Spain and of a great political project like the European Union. But do you know who else they've woken up to? Because you have awakened a majority in Catalonia, you have awakened a sense of civic patriotism throughout Spain, but you have awakened Europe, and you are already seen by the European institutions as seen by nationalism, as a threat, as the antithesis of the European Union. And listen, get out of your Matrix process, listen to what Tajani is saying, what Timmermans is saying, what they're saying leaders at European level – Macron, Merkel – listen beyond your microworld of the process. Listen to what they are saying, that nationalism is the antithesis of Europe, that nationalism is, together with populism, the threat that the European Union has. Therefore, if we have to thank them for something of this insurmountable process it is thanks for having awakened a social majority in Catalonia, thanks for helping to awaken this modern civic patriotism in the whole of Spain and thanks for having defended and for having awakened a Europe that defends diversity and that remembers that it was founded to fight precisely against exclusive nationalist identity candidates. So, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] And we are going to think of all the Catalans, those who voted for us and those who did not vote for us, because we maintain a commitment to all Catalans, because all Catalans share the same problems, because it is much more that unites us than what separates us, because unemployment, corruption, waiting lists do not only affect party supporters, there is no waiting list for independenceists and another waiting list for non-independenceists. We have to have a project for all Catalans, a project respectful of the framework of coexistence that we have given ourselves, with the competences of this Parliament, with the Statute of autonomy, with the Spanish Constitution, with the rules of play of the European Union. And I tell you one thing, and one bad news: within ten, fifteen, twenty years, do you know what's going to happen? That Catalonia will continue to be an autonomous community of Spain, and the Catalans will continue to be Catalans, Spanish and European, despite you, because you will not be charged, no matter how much you try, Catalonia. Because you have done a lot of damage to Catalonia, to all Catalans, but Catalonia is too strong to even you, with your process, break it and destroy it. And Catalonia is going to come out of this. And Spain, as a political project, will emerge from this, because within those ten, fifteen, twenty years, the process will be remembered as a nightmare, as a modus vivendi of a few who did not achieve their goal, who tried to load Catalonia and did not even achieve it. And Catalonia is going to be united, and we're going to have a project for all Catalans, and Catalans are going to shake hands again. And you are not going to lead that new stage, because you, the courage that you have to have to do this, the honesty, honesty, the realism that you have to have to have to have a new political stage in Catalonia, you have long since left it aside. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.43.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Motion for a resolution on the normalization of Parliament's functions and the investiture of the President of the Generality]] [[250-00057/12]] Next is the words of Mr Xavier García Albiol, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party. In this case, the memory they have seven minutes and a half for each subgroup. Therefore, you have these seven minutes and a half, Mr Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.44.0	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The celebration of this first plenary session seems to us to be the best example of recognizing the unique and surrealist situation in which Catalan policy has been established since some time ago. We have, for one thing, an expressor who is fleeing justice who wants to be president via webcam; we have a party, the PDECAT, which privately says that he does not want his candidate to be president, but does not have the courage to unravel the situation; some members of the government, the members of the Republican Left, who accuse their companies of adventure, of the PDECAT, of disloyalties, and a party, which won the elections, Ciutadans, which for two months has been overtaken, because the only one he wanted to win was not to rule. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have just explained could be the most accurate photograph of the current political scene in Catalonia, with the final brooch of the celebration of this unique plenary session, thanks – as the president of her group herself said – to Citizens, who leads us, as in a kind of prize of parliamentary consolation, to pose a debate, a plenary without a government to which he or she addresses himself or with whom, in the face of the proposal, which would be the very one of every party winning an election, which does not pass by any other than an investiture debate. Citizens have thus sought a format to conceal their inactivity, achieving as the only real result of this plenary that we are celebrating the recognition, in all probability, of a resolution in support of the express Carles Puigdemont. I must confess that at this moment I do not know whether within three days, a week or perhaps a month we will have President and Government of the Generalitat. In Catalan politics everything is possible, and any scenario, however rocky it may seem, is surpassed the next day by a new episode. It is clear that you, the independent parliamentary majority, the consequences that for the economy, for the generation of wealth, the confidence or image of Barcelona and Catalonia that has generated the process worry you and occupy you very little. The most recent example we have experienced at the Mobile World Congress, and in a unique way with the behavior with which both the President of the Parliament and the Mayor of Barcelona have given us. That's why I want to be very honest with you. We are aware that this perception of decadence and provincialism that they convey to the world is not part of their concerns, nor does it honestly cause them the least concern. Moreover, I am absolutely convinced that they feel fully identified with that anachronistic role. They are immersed in a kind of holy war against all that the State represents, and therefore do not attend to objective reasons or to minimum criteria of objectivity. You don't worry about getting better funding, improving infrastructure or getting better investments in health or education for Catalans. You are at what you are at: to break absolutely everything, in favor of an identity dream. You can be absolutely sure that it is not part of our priorities to try to convince that part of the population that seems fortunately installed in the permanent self-deception, but I must tell you that we are concerned and that we are dealing with that majority of Catalans that we want to move on urgently to the disgovernment that you have dragged us to for a long time and that we are suffering its grave consequences all Catalans. A situation of disgovernment that would be aggravated in the case – it seems that that would be the will of this independenceist majority – to present a deputy in prison for serious crimes to the presidency of the Generalitat. I suppose, ladies and gentlemen, that you are aware that this decision would certainly mean remaining installed on the day of the marmot and continuing to investigate the institutional and social instability that we are currently experiencing in Catalonia. You, the parliamentary majority, the independenceist majority, which is not a social majority, seem obsessed with remaining installed in the error, remaining installed in the conflict, reiterating yourself in the confrontation against the State, as the only instrument of cohesion of those to whom time and evidence have shown, to themselves and to society as a whole, the lack of a minimally realistic project. Ladies and gentlemen, who has said that the declaration of independence had a purely symbolic value is President Artur Mas; who has said that the declaration of independence has no legal or practical effects has been the deputy and express of Parliament Carme Forcadell; who considers that the declaration of independence was only a political declaration, without mere legal effects, was the president of Esquerra Republicana, of the Group of Republican Esquerra, Marta Rovira. Therefore, it is evident that we are facing a great deception, we are facing a deception that has been living for months from symbolism and epic; a symbolic repetition of a symbolic declaration of symbolic independence: everything very symbolic, in the virtual Catalonia in which you are installed. But they must not forget one thing: everything has been symbolic, because the State has stopped their feet. On the other hand, while you were distracted by symbolism, there was nothing symbolic about the march of companies, the social fracture and political destabilization and the waste of public and economic resources. And now, on top of that, they intend to continue living from that great scam with the repeated deception of one part of the Catalans and trampling on the rest, the majority. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to exercise political maturity: stop thinking about yourselves and do what you do for the majority of the people of Catalonia. Take the step and unlock the situation of paralysis in which we are immersed, let us return to a certain political and institutional normality. History has shown that radicality and rupture have never brought anything good to Catalonia, and it has always been better for us as we moved forward at the hands of the rest of the autonomous communities, leading progress and progress in Catalonia. A year ago today I warned them at this parliamentary seat that they were putting many things at risk, and among them, the self-government of Catalonia. It will depend exclusively on you, on this parliamentary majority, that the Catalan institutions can once again enjoy all the self-government that this democracy allows us. And I'm finishing up. The democratic institutions, in this case represented by the Senate and the Government of Spain, gave a proportional and gradual response. Specifically, the Government decided to give the Catalans a voice with an electoral call, prioritizing the interests of the state over the legitimate interests of its own party, when they surely advised to take other decisions more gratefully electorally. Don't let go... don't let go, ladies and gentlemen. [[relays]] of the independence majority, this opportunity with its old dynamics. Let us return to coexistence; it is the cry of the majority. And there you have the assurance that they will find us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.45.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. So far, the groups that have put forward motions for resolutions for this House have spoken; now it is the turn of the groups that have not put forward motions for resolutions. In this case, the Board of Spokesmen also agreed that it is done by order of majority to minor; therefore, it is the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.46.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, before anything, for me and I'm sure that for most of you, it's important to make it clear today that we're not all there, and we won't get tired of saying it. The political prisoners are missing and the ones who have had to leave are missing so as not to end this very fate. For them, today, we are many here, to continue working to build a more just and freer society, to continue building a country and a better world for us and our children. From the Republican Left, convinced to do so with the purest Junkerist style, from the Oriol Junqueras, extend their hands absolutely to everyone, embracing the diversity of the country and generating opportunities for everyone; we can't do it any other way. With the flags of dignity, freedom and justice; with the flags of worthy schools, worthy hospitals, fair wages. Our project is a project of prosperity, equal opportunities, hope and progress. We are here because we are a people with a shared horizon, a coughing people, who want to be the protagonist of their future. The recurring and persistent, and always peaceful, civic demonstrations, which have massively filled the streets from the year 2006 to our country, are an extraordinary show of collective action, a majority of citizens focusing on the political agenda, a social capital that wants to decide the future of the country, that wants to decide the fate of refugees to the world, that wants decent pensions, that wants fair university taxes. We have won this: we have won a living society, with a full agenda of political defeat in Europe. And that was reflected in the institutions. And we have also built and constituted so many times as a parliamentary majority has been needed that we want alone. We saw it on September 27th and we ratified it on October 21st in some elections, the more adverse elections than ever, especially for the candidacy I represent, from Esquerra Republicana, with Oriol Junqueras, his candidate, in prison. A thousand adversities and, tanmateix, we're here, adding and advancing. Let me say – and we always insist, but let me especially notice today – that the people of Esquerra Republicana want a republic full of contents – full of contents. Independence, for us, is an instrument, a means to build goals: a country that is better, fairer, cleaner and freer, because its citizens and its citizens are better. That's the real point, and so we've always understood. The clean-up of the Generality's accounts, due to the brilliant management of Oriol Junqueras, his vice president, has allowed the deadline for payment to suppliers to be drastically reduced and the economy to be encouraged, and that is a fact. The increase of social spending, or social investment, as we see it, in education and health in the assumptions of 2017, which were the most social of the history of this Parliament. We have conquered and assumed and started to execute a new social right: the guaranteed income of citizenship, which makes all the citizens of Catalonia can be charged with the essential expenses of their family. The reduction of tax fraud, the reduction of waiting lists, laying down the foundational pillars of the hourly reform in a decisive way: this is to make republic. A country more just and freer, capable of transformation: this is to make republic, and make it with capitals. We've come more far than ever, with more social support than ever, we've won the ballot boxes, and we have the conviction that so many ballot boxes as we own would win them back. And we know that the ballot boxes are and for us will always be the only instrument that legitimizes us. We have the 1st of October, and the 1st of October remains forever, people and institutions with a common objective, with a democratic compromise: to defend democracy and dignity. And after October 1, we learned that the unit of the State is also in the middle of the same State, is in the middle of the social and democratic state of the right. A majority of the State, a political majority of the State that abuses its legitimate power, that destroys its own rule with an interested interpretation, that abuses the courts and the prosecution and penal norms. A political majority in the State that puts us in prison without judgment and skips the whole logic of pre-trial detention. A political majority in the State that has simply shown that it does not believe in the democratic and right state. The application of the 155_has escaped the government and supposes a blow against the Catalan institutions and against what the majority of citizens decided at the polls. And this is directly affecting social inversion, public salvation to our country, guaranteed income... 155_was the pretext, in fact, to intervene Catalonia. And they're doing it with intelligence, they're doing it with silence, they're doing it with small decisions that affect the day-to-day Catalan administration, its public servants, and the citizens, all of them from the cities of Catalonia. Every day the PP and Ciutadans ask that if this 155 is extended to the Catalan school model, to public television, because they want to carry the great consensus of the country, the foundations of this only town that has been built between everyone and everyone, rapeseed, without asking us where we come from or what we are talking about, this country. 155 attacks the essence of the same country. That's why we can't afford any other scenes that won't end as soon as possible with this dictatorship. The citizenry expects its representatives to speak to them clearly. I said it during the election campaign and I say it again today, and I take it as a self-criticism: we have too often treated citizenship with paternalism, too often; and it has been a mistake. A society that is able to defend the ballot box as it did October 1 is ripe enough to hear the complexity, the real obstacles and the difference in prospects and respect them. More collective intelligence, more united, now more than ever, before adversity and obstacles, now more than ever, we must be stronger and more frank than ever. We have to get the institutions back. Only with strong institutions, which reflect the composition of this Parliament and which really follow the democratic expression of the citizens, can we really be stronger with these restored institutions and start walking and moving forward again. Only then can we deactivate 155, only then can we constitute a government that will put the institutions of this country back in the service of its people and general interest, in the service of republican ideals and to build a more just and freer country. In the Republican Left we believe that there is a broad consensus of country to achieve two objectives: the first, to recognize the legitimacy of President Puigdemont in Brussels, and the second, at the same time, to form an effective government in Catalonia that allows us to recover the Generality, the Government of the Generality, which today is in the hands of the People's Party. And we need to be able to recover the Generality so we can move forward, we need to be able to recover the Government of the Generality so we can move forward and walk again. And, at times, we have to give all the recognition to President Puigdemont in Brussels, recognition and operation, recognition and effectiveness, both things at the same time, and we understand that today we are starting to take steps on this path. For all that I have just said, we will vote in favour of Junts' motion for a resolution for Catalonia. With regard to the other motions for resolutions, obviously we will not vote in favour of Ciutadans' motion for a resolution, because we are here, precisely, because they applied 155 and because you have called for elections to win them, you have all the wind in favour to win these elections, and I assume that you have agreed that they did not. We don't have lessons in electoral proportionality. [[Greetings.]] We don't give lessons, we don't give lessons of electoral proportionality. Mrs. Arrimadas, look at'schines dades donates Rose's index, mitching which... [[Funnel veils]] By means of which... – is published in Parliament, the servants of the house can facilitate it – by means of which it is detected, we study what is the proportionality index of the electoral law that applies. And, in this country, and in this chamber and in the Catalan elections, the indexes of proportionality from the eighties are around 90 to 96_per_cent: 96_per_cent of electoral proportionality. Don't say things about the electoral system and the electoral law to win again or to make you see that you have won some elections that you haven't won. [[Widow's remorse.]] I suppose..., I suppose...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.47.0	Mrs. Rovira... Mrs. Rovira, just a moment, please! [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Please, I return to ask respect for who has the use of the word at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.48.0	So if they've won the election... listen, they're running for office, it's not a proportionality index complaint! [[Greetings.]] It's just that two things now are impossible. Returning to the PR that Ciutadans has presented, obviously we cannot vote in favour, because what we ask them is that they let the parties, the political formations, the parliamentary groups that have the majority in this Parliament derive, precisely, from these elections, so they can form the necessary agreements to govern the institutions of this country, as citizens have decided. Because institutions are not political parties, institutions are citizens, and they are citizens who decided that there was a Republican majority to govern them. And that's not heritage, as you say to the PR, that's democracy. I understand that, to you, the costs of hearing it, but this is democracy. With regard to the resolution proposal of the People's Party, obviously, we will also vote against it, because... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Exactly. As Mr De Páramo said, the feeling from here, what the People's Party wants is to start counting the two-month term to call back elections, as quickly as possible, as they already did with the elections of 21st December, to see if this is how some Member of Parliament in Ciutadans, and..., Mr. People's Party, better than a vagina become aware, what a vagina take..., that vagina take the idea that this will be a legislature in which you are romanizing the Mixed Group, because our priority is to end its 155 and return the institutions to the city of Catalonia and the majority of the city, depending on what you have decided at the polls. The motion for a resolution of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, we will also vote against it. But, unlike Ciutadans and the PP, let'mdir-li, Mr. Iceta, who, at the very least, I must acknowledge that you are making a proposal; make a proposal in your motion for a resolution, which is constitutional reform and looting. And we may or may not be in favour, but I do recognize that, at least, they explain what they want for Catalonia. You say you respect our proposals, we respect the proposals you make. Now, the rest of the PR only consists of putting deures and conditions on the Republican majority of this Parliament, and I think it is oblivious directly on the other side. The other side..., is to say, the question that we ask ourselves is: what to do, according to you, the Government of the State so that there can be a dialogue, stabilization, normalization and social security, and all that they ask in their motion for a resolution. What does the state government have to do? Because they don't ask him to. Because they are the ones who have always denied us the dialect, the political negotiation, the ones who have applied, with their support, 155, without glances, the ones who have complained against social leaders and independent politicians in our country, who are now in prison and exile, they are the ones who have carried with the use of force against the people who make, civically and peacefully, on the 1st of October, they are the ones of the Spanish Government who, once again, send citizens from this country to justice for alleged hate crimes, teachers for slander, rulers by agreements of the whole, violating freedom of expression, civil rights in our Messician country. Therefore, we cannot take on so many conditions, this republican majority cannot take on so many conditions to achieve a path of dialogue to promote the dialogue, which I understand is good faith, when the degradation of the democratic state and of the law is accepted free of charge, when political repression is tolerated free of charge and when no form of gesture is asked of the Spanish Government to take responsibility and by political means the situation of Catalonia. Respectfully, whatever you need, it would just be missing – this is one of the fundamental principles of a democratic and right state – but demanding the opening of a dialog and abandoning the path of prosecution, justice and repression I believe is also close. And, finally, I am making an appreciation of the proposal for the resolution of the commons, from Catalonia to Comú Puem. With regard to this motion for a resolution, I think we can say that we share the hope, the basis of this motion for a resolution, above all, for which it refers to putting value on the democratic institutions of our country and on which the citizens have decided to mediate the ballot boxes. We also agree, I believe, with the music that sounds of the finalization of the application of Article 155 and all its effects, above all, respect the social blockade that has meant this 155 and the threat to the Catalan school model. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of points 1, 2, 3 and 4, up to point 4. With respect to point 5, we'd vote no. We understand that the debate begins today and begins in this chamber, which is why we have been appointed representatives of the citizens of this country. And, respect point 6, the last point, we would vote that because the text has not just made clear who are the tools you refer to to to allow more and better self-government, do not explain which tools. And they didn't just explain what kind of ambitious self-government for Catalonia. Therefore, as we have not just seen clearly which proposal they are making for this legislature, at the 6th point we will vote otherwise. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.49.0	Thank you, Mrs. Rovira. Now, it's the turn of the CUP Subgroup - Constituent Cry. There's a word from Mr. Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.50.0	Okay. Thank you, President. This plenary of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, has never been convened on the date, on the contents, or on the terms in which it was convened, today, precisely, which makes exactly five months of the most important democratic event that our country has experienced in recent years, which was the self-determination referendum of October 1. If you have not been on the grounds of the 155th anniversary and the withdrawal of the Government of the Government of Catalonia on 27 October 2017, the following plenary of Parliament, after 27 October, has indeed been the first of the Catalan Republic, democratically voted in self-determination referendum and legitimately proclaimed in this Parliament in its plenary on 27 October. But with the support of the People's Party, of Ciutadans and the PSC, the State applied Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution and dissolved and suspended our institutions. The Government of the Generality, disregarding the republican movement mobilized on the road, withdrew; the Bureau of our Parliament accepted the dissolution and the Catalan Republic, democratically voted and legitimately proclaimed, remained suspended, remaining in the declared and non-effective sphere, with the consequence, also, of the amplification of the repression by the Spanish State on the independence movement, which had already begun with the actions of the courts on this Parliament, its Bureau, some of its deputies and deputies, on the Government of the Generality and some of its public bodies, on battles and governors, on the more than two-million people that on the 1st day of October defend democracy and on the multitude of our citizens' treballers. Amplification of the repression that today seems to have no limit in a general case against Catalonia and its republican movement, in which the Spanish State imposed on the Catalan Countries, in clear connivance with fascism and the extreme right, a true state of exception violating civil and political rights over all social and democratic dissent. All in all, in a state that has already renounced its right, that has renounced the separation of powers, that has decided that everything is going on in the general cause against independence. Today we have contemplated the new novelty of the appearance in our Parliament of the Holy Inquisition, which has tried to prevent, which has tried to block the legitimate democratic debate in this chamber, trying to prevent the items that the UPC had presented from being accepted, simply to be discussed, simply to be debated, and to have the right to stand or not the support of the chamber. The State's prohibitions on the inauguration of the presidency, the suspension of the plenary of the 30th that follows the indications of the Constitutional Court, the continued repressive threats on the part of the State, the setbacks seeking solutions in the Mark of the State and the Constitution, instead of finding it in the republican and popular legitimacy, and the maintenance of the application of Article 155 constitute an unsustainable context, regression and that, instead of taking over the republican movement, gives to the State to continue with repression and with the imposition of its recent policies. Certainly, we must recognize that we have reached the end of a cycle. Together for the Yes and the Government of the Generality proposed to us an independent process from the law to the law, in a _marc of major dialect with the Spanish State and of recognition by the European Union, with transitions without rupture, almost like a process administered and obeying the reprehensibility of the republican hold of power in terms of popular power. Neither the Spanish State nor the European Union accepted any dialogue. October 1st and October 3rd, tanmateix, marked a path of popular democratic revolt, a ribbon of republical empowerment that the Government and Juntes for the Yes have deactivated on October 10th and 28th. The response of the State cannot be more diaphanous: repression and refocusing. When we take a step back, the State makes two. When we, instead of being a republic, are autonomous, the State responds with re-centralisation. We recognize and appreciate, however, in a round and clear way, the sacrifices of everyone who has suffered and taken on repression, imprisonment and exile. They have all our gratitude and solidarity. But dedicating oneself to the path that has been taken is one of the worst anti-repressive policies that can be tough in the long run; maintaining the effectiveness and binding character of '1 October and 27 October, in the band of a disregard for the people who played the thing and the anime, does nothing but strengthen the State and weaken republicanism. For what it does to the motions for resolutions submitted, we want to say that for what it does to the PSC, the PP and Ciutadans, we do not deserve more attention. They are proposals for a resolution which do not go further than claiming an autonomous model which has proved to be utterly ineffective and useless in order to satisfy, in our country, the legitimate social and democratic aspirations and progress that have been expressed with the majority of the electorate that 21 December gave the majority to the independence forces. For what it does to the documents of Catalonia in Comú, we have to regret that it manifests a repeated renunciation of the dismissal of the 78th Regime, of the absolute lack of reference to no project of processes constitute. Tanmateix, we must say yes, that we will vote in favour of his motion for a resolution in which we agree on the subject of defending linguistic immersion and the public school model. On the motion for a resolution presented by Junts for Catalonia and with the support of Esquerra Republicana, we are already saying that we continue to share the legitimacy of Carles Puigdemont as a candidate for the presidency of the Republic and that, therefore, we will vote yes to the Sisena resolution. That's not new. We have a word for it. On the 30th we were here to cast four votes in favour of the sovereignty of our people and of the sovereignty of the Parliament; we will not turn away from it. The problem is that you have renounced that this investment is made effective in this Parliament, yielding to the pressure of the State. And not only that, but they have renounced or run the risk that they will renounce the sources of legitimacy that the people of October 1st and the Parliament on October 27th have attached to the restoration of the Catalan Republic. And the problem is that the republican institutionality in exile will be effective if we do not make it effective in the territory, in the struggle to build the republic also in Catalonia. The priority is not to form an autonomous government and to recover the institutions of autonomy, the priority is to establish the republic, to materialize it, to invest the presidency that is loyal to the governments. The priority is also to restore to the people the power that this has taken on October 1 and 3, and to put the process in their hands constitute, also from the municipalities, from the social movements, from the popular movement and from our associative network, which today is the main democratic capital of our country. That is why today – and with this end, President – we should be celebrating a plethora of restitution of the republic, and that is why we are not presenting a motion for a resolution; but it seems to us that they humbly represent the majority sense, the majority sense of the independent republic movement, and claim the inescapable legitimacy of '1 October, 3 October and 27 October.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.51.0	Mr. Riera...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.52.0	Yes... Mr. Domènech, I just told you that we will continue to throw ourselves at the wall as many times as we can to overthrow it or, perhaps, jump it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.53.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. To finalise this debate and to indicate who are the items that have been accepted and the text that will eventually be put to the vote, a new round of interventions of the proposed parliamentary groups is opened, for a maximum of five minutes. Mr. Domènech has the word back.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.54.0	On the papers presented, I'll quote Mr. Carles Riera – who told me this willingness to fuck against the wall the times you need and for what it is – a phrase that also reminds him of something: at the time of "two steps back to take a step forward was also a strategy – it was also a strategy, huh? [[The timer laughs.]] The strategy was not just: "Come on, let's go over there and see how many holies we give ourselves. On your exams, no..., quickly, by the way..., on the exams of the CUP. I looked at them, I read them, there were many, they were very varied, some very interesting, until I found out that with so much thought what I was reading was the motion for a resolution that the CUP had not presented. Therefore, I invite you to make a motion for a resolution next time, like the rest of the parliamentary groups, and we can talk more about you, that's to say... because stress is fine, but dialogue is still better. So I decided at the end that we'd better let it go. In the case of Junts per Catalunya, there are two points, one that speaks of the organization... that we say that it is not possible to support the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia by state organization. That's obvious. We're referring to the same thing as we're talking about at Point 1 of the same Juntes resolution for Catalonia, which is that it's the Parliament of Catalonia where the will of the people of Catalonia is wrong. So we wouldn't accept it. On the subject of public school, which called for separation, Mirin, for us it is not separable. That is to say, the public school is defense attacking any segregation that can be donated from the public school. There is a segregation that it is obvious that it could be by reason of language, a segregation that could be by economic reasons – the main problem of public school is the 600_million retails that you consolidated in past assumptions – and a segregation by sex. Either we fight all the segregations or we don't fight any. That's why we'd keep the text as it was. About Ciutadans. Clearly, the differences are abysmal. At the first point, you say that Catalonia's own self-government derives from the Constitution and the Statute. So no. That is to say, it is a pre-emptive pact..., first, which derives from the Second Republic; but it is that, moreover, even in the present order, it is a pre-emptive pact with the same approval of the Constitution. In this sense, we have a different view of Catalonia's self-government. And the second point is that we have a radical difference in the subject of the language model. Mrs. Arrimadas said, she denounced – and claimed, moreover, with this complaint, to speak for the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans, those who are independent and those who are not independent – that it is not about the real problems, that the process has followed a great screen... Miri, I will talk to her about a very real problem. Sant Joan Despí, avinguda de Barcelona, 113: 121 families to be denominated for Goldman Sachs, for a voltor background. All the groups of the Sant Joan Despí Assembly, and all the People's Party of Mr Albiol, have signed a resolution against this denunciation. All of them? No, no, Citizens have decided that what Goldman Sachs did was fine and that calling the people of this country was fine. [[Greetings.]] It's that you live from the confrontation, from the national confrontation, and when it's looking beyond the national confrontation there's Goldman Sachs, directly. And, finally, a reflection on Junts' intervention for Catalonia. It's just... and some things please me, because I'm also a historian; but it's just that there's been a past intervention, that's to say... And it counts that the claim is not converted into a complaint, that it is a very own thing too, that it is ending up turning into a complaint which is the complaint and the claim. October 1 was not only a moment of strong repression, it was also a moment of a great self-organisation, self-organisation on the part of the people of Catalonia, and of fractures of the State; this is absolutely obvious. But it is also that the day has won the right to decide, but it is not possible to lay down the construction of fraternity, freedom and equality, it is not possible to lay down without fraternity, freedom and equality, which must involve the conjunction of the people of Catalonia, to all the people of Catalonia, in their diversity. And you should make a recognition, a recognition beyond the claim, that the future is only built with the conjunction of the people of Catalonia – it is only built with the conjunction of the people of Catalonia. Because, if not, by a very legitimate aspiration, it won't pull forward. If the problem isn't the State! The problem is internal legitimacy. And that would have to be recognizable, because I think it could make us all go a lot further. But, well, I... we'll see the votes, but I think this debate must be a debate that opens a new stage and a new future, and we need a new stage and a new future. I am telling you honestly: I do not think that the government that constitutes can inaugurate this new stage, but I hope that the representation of all the people of Catalonia can dialogue in this Parliament to build this new stage. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.55.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. It's Mr. Miquel Iceta's turn now. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! Mrs. Eva Granados, so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.56.0	Thank you, President. You today, President, played it, and you and the majority of the independentist in the Bureau have admitted to the CUP. And if all this is true, the CUP documents have been accepted by Esquerra Republicana and Juntes for Catalonia, and we would be talking about this Catalan republic that you are talking about, and not about what we are seeing again, that it is the Republic of Rights, because in the end the transactions are going where they are going. We have rejected a question from Catalonia in Comú We can and we have made a compromise to solve the idea that respect for the law and the process of reform in the laws are the guarantee of freedom, in front of arbitrariness. And we thank the company in Catalonia in Comú We may have made us this dream. This is not the plethora of unlocking, much as some parliamentarians say. We wanted it to be the Investigative Plea, which is the one that needs the conjunction of Catalonia, the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans, which is the Plea that will set up the machinery of the Government. An investiture that we want you to agree with the Statute of Autonomy. Nor does it seem that it will be the Ple who puts the clock on the line. As much as my parliamentary group has tabled this resolution, so you see that most people do not want to have a timetable to agree, and they do not want the people of Catalonia to go back to the polls if you do not agree. And, therefore, it seems that they want to live in these legal positions in which they have us. Because, in the end, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, this is the Pleth of Paralysis, the Pleth of Disgovernance and the Pleth of Disgoverment of the Independentist Majority. You have passed from the epic of travel to Ithaca to a ship that is repainted, that has water, that has no boss, that has no direction and that seems that the passengers are leaving the "boat, eh? According to the CEO, it seems that unilaterality is already the 19_per_cent of the population. I don't know who they're going to ask for responsibilities, you've put this ship on the road to Ithaca, but it's clear that we might have to ask for responsibilities that they're now talking about exaggerations or that they're saying that October 1st there wasn't a reference and that if there's ever a reference, it'll be agreed with the Spanish State. Maybe I'll ask you to explain to all of these. In the end, after so many speeches slowed down at the meetings and by Skype, very rhetorical – we have now listened to Mr. Torra, to Mrs. Rovira – the question was clearly asked by the CUP, and I also translated them: Lords of Junts to Catalonia and the Republican Left, what do you want to return? Do they want to restore the Statute of Autonomy and the Constitution or do they want to restore the Law of Transition and Foundation of the Catalan phantom Republic, which was voted on September 7th? This is what they should answer and transfer to their voters. Because Junts' motion for a resolution for Catalonia is a declaratory goodyol, an award of poor consolation. You tell them about the CUP that they're making, and they're bringing it to disaster... they say what you say at the rallies. And now, with this admission to these items and these transactions, I don't know where we'll find each other. What is clear to them is our vote against. I believe and the Socialists and Forward Units believe that the people are tired, that everything is tired and the citizenry is tired, that we are a government, but a government that governments for everyone, and not the disillusionment and not the disproposal of this private foundation, Republic of Catalonia, in Belgium. They're repeating the mistakes we already know where they're carrying us. We need security, we need trust for everyone. You have damaged Catalonia's reputation in the past few months, put our economy and the work of many Catalans in danger, put our coexistence in danger, polarize our society, and continue to be in error. We want to live and we want to live, and that's why we respect each other; as Miquel Iceta used to say, it's time to respect the laws and we all respect each other. We're tired of this tough show, while the country's done, while the institutions are done. We need to get down from the "boat, which is making an investment debate in this Parliament and putting a government that works for everyone on the march. And let's denounce one more time the paralysis that this Ple, along with solving, does is to put it more in evidence. The announcement, Mr President, that we will call for a separate vote on the second point of the motion for a resolution by En Comú Puem, and Deputy Ramon Espadaler will ask for an explanation of vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.57.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. That's a note. It's Mr. Quim Torra's turn, now. I remind them, however, that this is a turn to position themselves on the items; therefore, they demand that this object be subdued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.58.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I am afraid I have forgotten, in my intervention, to thank the Republican Left Group and the CUP Group for their support of our resolution, a resolution that we have worked hard on, and I would like to thank the two groups, so the effort and especially the constructive criticism and the demand that the CUP always puts us forward. We have especially wanted to remember in this 5th month of '1 October, therefore, that democratic will of the people legitimately expressed in the referendum of self-determination of Catalonia, for us legitimate. It is to say, in a genuine way, in a non-false way, in an authentic way, therefore, it was, effectively, a culminating moment in the history of Catalonia. To the Group of Catalonia in Comú We can also thank many thanks for a criticism that we understand positive. We do not plant, we did not raise this debate or this motion for a resolution as an investiture debate, logically. Therefore, some of your words do not seem to me to wander in the line of the debate. We do not doubt that in the Parliament of Catalonia the sovereignty of the people and that 155 cannot shut him up, but we understand that there are other spaces for debate and dialogue. It is to say, if we, each of us, are the expression of the popular will, where there is a deputy of the Parliament of Catalonia there is the expression of the popular will. And today it turns out there's sovereignty, there's popular will, you know? To the prisons of Espanya. And do you know where else? In exile, in Belgium and in Geneva. There's sovereignty there. [[Greetings.]] That is why we would very much like to vote for this point with you, but we cannot vote for it. In change, with great taste, we will vote for the second, which refers to the model of Catalan school. This is a shared fight, as our friend Jordi Cuixart likes to say – also in prison. Today is one of those great consensuss, we agree, we have to go this way, we have to get these great consensuss that have made the country and that have pushed it forward. They'll find us here all the time. And on the other hand, we will also abstain from points 3 and 4, because for us there is a small detail that is missing in these resolutions, and it is the complaint that prompted 155. 155 doesn't fall on us for any reason, but there's someone who fires the 155 button and we want to report it. Without this complaint, it seems that it is not complete. And, unfortunately, I'm sorry, we can't give them support in points five and six. The Socialist Group, the truth is that at these heights, which present this resolution, we are surprised. But they surprise us not for what they say, but for what they do not say. When Mr. Miquel Iceta said: "No one deserves what's going on, I thought you meant what you're talking about today in prison or exile, and it turns out you're not. Or I thought you were referring to the document that Mr. Raimon Obiols and other ex-socialists were presenting and it turns out not. Or it turns out that you're referring to the vote that Mrs. Núria Parlon threw in front of her assembly. We hope that you will present a resolution in advance calling for prisoners to be released, for prisoners to be brought to justice, and for the return of exiles to be demanded. Let's wait for this resolution and [[applause]] When they present it, we will vote for it. You also said: " 155 will continue to apply because there is no government. It's a phrase that, so said, is a force... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] But no, look, it turns out it's not like that, the thing. It's that 155 is still applying because you voted 155. [[Greetings.]] That's the problem. Because there is, let's just say, a starter, in things, and the starter of 155 is that someone voted 155. So, let's not fool ourselves any more by widening 155. As for the speech of Mrs. Granados, who always has an apocalyptic point, I don't know, she told us everything, about our proposal: that it is a bunyol... A bunyol for which, listen'm, it turns out that perhaps a prosecutor from this country is thinking of making a complaint. [[The timer laughs.]] Imagine's, huh? , picture's gravity of the subject. For some items – for some items – that have not even been voted on. Imagine's. And tell us we're tired and I don't know what else. I would invite you, Mrs. Granados, one day we'll take something from you and I'll talk quietly. [[Widow's remorse.]] He will see with the illusion that we are denouncing this stage, the gains we have to bring forward this action of government republic. We're not tired, but the opposite. Respect for the group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.59.0	Mr. Torra, I was born on the first turn. Now I'd ask you to go through with it, it's over your time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.60.0	Yeah, I'm done, so. To the Ciutadans Group, very short. Mrs Arrimadas said that "the whole of Spain has awakened, which makes me take a terrible trembling of camels, because if it turns out that she was asleep and has passed everything that has passed, imagine when Spain has awakened. Normally, in this case, we double back, right? I would like to say that, for this reason, it really makes us think that Spain has really woken up. I would like to recall some words that always seem to me descriptive of a poet and critic of La Colla de Sabadell, the Armand Obiols, year 32, who said: "They want to devour us and we do not want to be devoured. So we'd like no more complaints from the Spanish state, honestly. And as for this attempt to shut us up and silence us, I agree with our partner Carles Riera...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.61.0	Mr. Torra, you've passed your time in a minute. He's exhausted him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.62.0	All right. Just plainly say..., plant in this chamber if some deputies are deputies or inquisitors. All right, all right, [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.63.0	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Torra, it didn't manifest... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Torra, you didn't manifest yourself in relation to the papers. I would have to say exactly what points the final proposal should make in order to know what we are voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.64.0	Excuse me. With regard to our motion for a resolution, we have actually negotiated some issues with the CUP, which we have accepted, and the rest we have rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.65.0	Thank you, Mr. Torra, now yes. And now it's the turn of Mrs. Arrimadas, also to position herself in relation to the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.66.0	Thank you, Mr. President. We shall position ourselves on the amendments and on the content of the motions for resolutions. The truth is that I have to admit that our motion for a resolution is pure common sense and pure realism, we have not said anything new. That is, we believe, as I believe the rest of the citizens, that citizens and politicians have to comply with the laws. We believe that the President of Parliament has to fulfil his mission and unblock this political situation that Parliament has closed to call and chant and that he has only been able to open Citizens today thanks to the fact that we have won the elections. We believe that we need a government that respects the laws and rules for all Catalans, for the independenceists and for the non-independenceists, because the problems we have are the same. Furthermore, we are convinced that this motion for a resolution on realism is very much needed. We wouldn't have to introduce her, but it's just that it takes a lot. And just listening to Mrs. Rovira's speech, you need realism. Jo, Mrs. Rovira, with all due respect... In what year? Where? In its independent republic of Catalonia, has Republican Left won the elections, really? Yeah? It's interesting from the sociological point of view, isn't it? One day we can make a coffee and explain to me what your independent republic is like... [[Widow's remorse.]] Because I'm telling you the truth... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.67.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.68.0	...I tell the truth, Mrs. Rovira, to Catalonia really won Ciutadans. Citizens of Catalonia have won, in votes and in votes, with an absolutely unfair electoral law that gives them a representation they don't have. Everyone understands that, Mrs Rovira, you have 47 percent of the votes, but you have an absolute majority in Parliament. What's he doing? That makes it an absolutely unfair election law. But the worst is not that you defend this election law, that it's legitimate that you defend an unjust law – it's legitimate –, which is... amazing to say that Citizens have not won the elections, it's that that's no longer a political issue, it's already from another area. [[Give me the applause.]] I mean, I mean, we won the election. It is not political discrepancy, this, which is legitimate for you to like the unjust electoral law – it is legitimate – is already a problem issue with reality. Citizens have won the elections, something you have never done in forty years, and you have been talking all your life on behalf of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Realism, right, they're going to be much needed in the new political stage we need in Catalonia. Truth, realism and respect for all Catalans – respect. We never lack respect as you do. [[You see: "No!]] We never deny that you exist as you do with us. We never say that a party that has won the elections has not won the elections. That kind of trouble with reality we don't usually have. In addition, I tell you one thing: the Matrix in which you have lived has had a flaw. That programming that you have wanted to make of Catalonia for so many years has had a failure. And that failure of your Matrix process, that failure of programming that you have been making decades with public money, is called « the victory of Citizens in Catalonia, which is the first step of realism in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] And realism is necessary because you, as always, do not accept the amendments of the CUP. You are making a story that doesn't agree with what you really dare to vote after. Again they're with the lie, again they're with the deception, again they're with the farce. Certainly, progress that Citizens will not participate in the vote of your motion for a resolution because, as always, it has arrived at us in a way, well, that violates the Rules of Parliament again by Mr Torrent. Because I would like to remind you that we have registered a request for reconsideration before the plenary begins, but Mr Torrent has gone Olympic, as is usually the case in the last Presidents of Parliament, from what the main opposition group regularly asks. With regard to our PR, the truth is that we have been presented with an amendment, but it is identical to the text of other proposals that we are going to vote for and therefore our proposal remains as it was in the original version. With regard to the proposal of the People's Party, we will vote in favour. We believe it is common sense that the situation in Parliament needs to be unblocked. Of the Socialist Party, the truth is that in most of the points we agree; in some, we want to do certain nuances and we will have to abstain, because we trust in dialogue, of course, but within the rule of law. And, gentlemen of En Comú, your account has been confirmed in your speech. In his speech he has devoted more time to saying that the fault of everything is 155 than what we have experienced in recent months in Parliament. Yes, because I tell you one thing, to end: if it were for you, who have opposed so much to 155, I would continue to rule a government that commits illegalities, you would continue to run companies and I would continue to rule a party that is doomed to pay a fine for cases of corruption. That corruption, you don't care. If it were for you, that government, which in addition to corruption commits illegalities, that is. If corruption is linked to illegalities...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.69.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, you should go to the end...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.70.0	...and insults to the rest of Spain, they can still rule. Otherwise, no. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.71.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.72.0	Therefore, since it is not a story that we buy, we already know how you stand, for, obviously, we what we are not going to do is say to the Catalans that the fault of everything that is happening in Catalonia is 155, because it is not true – because it is not true – and you know it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.73.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.74.0	Yes, President. For a question of allusions, to answer, if you can give me the regular time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.75.0	It's true that he was greeted, thirty-seconds, anyway.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.76.0	Thank you. Just tell Mrs. Arrimadas that I reiterate the happiness that I made her arrive on the 22nd of December for having remained the first most voted force in Catalonia. Yeah, sure. And when I mentioned that you obviously realize that you have not won enough of these elections with force, it seems to me that you do not have the support of this chamber to submit your candidacy to be President of the Government of the Generality. That's just it. And it was a question of elegance. I don't think I can change the words I gave to the Faristol. And I insist that I review the proportionality indexes of the electoral law..., of the Catalan electoral system, because I remember that to the ponència – to the ponència – that we had here on the reform of the electoral law..., or the Catalan electoral law that we wanted to do, Ciutadans was enough to agree that the electoral system was of the most proportional of Europe, at a level of 90_percent of proportionality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.77.0	Madame Arrimadas, you know that this does not open a debate between you. You have greeted Mrs Rovira from the Faristol, you know that there is no turn... Anyway... I insist, the allusions she is fan of the Faristol have the right that they can be answered by the deputies, but not to establish a debate between you two. Now it's Mr. García Albiol's turn... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? In this case... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? Mr. Fernández, then? In this case, he was going to say, for two minutes and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.78.0	Thank you very much, President. Simply to convey that we will finally accept the message presented by Ciutadans. It should also be noted that we asked for a separate vote in the case of proposals from the commons of points 1, 2 and 6. And finally, tell Mr. Torra that when he finishes his coffee with Mrs. Granados I invite him to another, I explain to you how the right state works and you explain to me how it is possible to be 15 minutes talking, complaining and making the victim, because I don't understand. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.79.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. In any case, now, one time closes the positioning turn for the items... [[Elsa Artadi and Villa ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Artadi, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.80.0	President, we only ask for the word to ask for a separate vote from all the points of Catalonia's motion for a resolution in Comú Puem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.81.0	Thank you, Mrs. Artadi. So, we'd proceed to... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.82.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote from point 2.a...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.83.0	What motion for a resolution is it referring to?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.84.0	Of the..., he forgave, of the socialist proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.85.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.86.0	Points..., points to e. They can vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.87.0	So, you said... sorry, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.88.0	Second...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.89.0	Second...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.90.0	...and 2.e.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.91.0	...and 2.e. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.92.0	Okay? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.93.0	Any more separate petitions? Yeah. Mr Fernández, I have not been able to write it down; if you can repeat, please, the separate voting requests?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.94.0	As it's common and it's already been asked apart by everyone, it's already there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.95.0	Okay. Therefore, we would proceed to the vote in this case of... [[Marta Ribas Frías asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Alamany? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ribas, yes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.96.0	Yes, President; it is to ask for separate votes, in the case of the CSP resolution proposal, from points 1 and 2.b; I do not know if I already had them scheduled as points to vote separately. And, in the case of Junts' motion for a resolution for Catalonia, we would need..., almost asking him to vote separately from everything, maybe it's easier; by subpoints, even. There's... at least we need to vote for separate 2, 2 bis and 4, 4 bis. And of Ciutadans' motion for a resolution, we would also call for a separate vote on point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.97.0	Okay. If I look like I'm going to see you again, huh? [[Pause.]] For what it does to the motion for a resolution presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, we would vote for all points separately. In the case of the motion for a resolution of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to move forward, the vote was requested separately from point 1, point 2a, point 2.b and point 2.e. Am I right? Yeah? [[Pause.]] And for what it does to Junts' motion for a resolution for Catalonia, it also separates the vote from all points. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes; a moment, Mr. Carrizosa. And for the vote on the motion for a resolution of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the vote would be taken separately on point 3. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.98.0	Yes, to ask whether there is going to be a warning from the lawyers concerning any of the points in the motion for a resolution by Junts per Catalunya, which apparently had an objection on the part of the lawyers, and we ask that, if it exists, it be repeated in this session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.99.0	Yes, as you must know, Mr Carrizosa, the speakers at the Bureau have spoken, which is contained in the minutes of the Bureau, which is obviously public and accessible to all parliamentary groups. The speakers, in this sense, have referred to the transactional issue, at point 6a, of Junts' motion for a resolution for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.100.0	[[Pause.]] Now. You referred to what was the point of the motion for a resolution... on which the warning weighs and we wanted to know the content, that the content of the warning will be made public, even for a principle of transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.101.0	Yes; for this principle of transparency, Mr. Carrizosa, the warning or comments made by the readers are public as they are collected in the minutes of the Bureau. [[Widow's remorse.]] And in any case, Mr. Carrizosa... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.102.0	No; that, in any case, before we proceed to the vote, I believe that Members have the right to know the content of the counsel's warning, before a vote takes place, is the most obvious and most logical parliamentary logic..., well, purer. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The minutes may be public, but they are not known; I know they have not been published, we have not had access to them and, therefore, before voting, it would be advisable for us and all those Catalans who are attending this public meeting from the public or from the media. I do not think anyone knows the content of what has been done in the Bureau at this time. That is why it is requested before the vote is taken. Sounds like overwhelming logic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.103.0	Mr Carrizosa, I insist, the warnings or comments that have been made to the members of the Bureau, not to the conjunction of the House. [[remorse of the voice]] , not at the conjunct of the deputies and deputies, but... – if you let me speak, please –, but to the members of the Bureau. And that warning was made. And, obviously, you will have knowledge in the measure that is collected in the Minutes, in the band that, obviously, you have Members of your parliamentary group who are present at the Bureau of Parliament. Thank you. [[Pause.]] All right, let's call... let's call a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, let's start the vote. I would remind you, and especially in the case of Members and Members of this House, that we must first vote on the 'presence' button and then on the vote. Mr. Pujol has already announced... [[remorse of the voice]] But in any case, let's know that the presence must first be marked and after the vote. We begin the vote on point 2 of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins. It's been... [[Ramon Swordler and Partners ask to speak.]] Yes, I'll read... if I may, Congressman, read the result and then make the explanation of vote. It has been approved, if I am not mistaken, by 90 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me: 91 votes in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. Yes, yes, Mr. Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.104.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was for, according to what Article 101.3 establishes, to be able to make the explanation of vote. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. As you have appreciated in the very name of our parliamentary group, I have two different political expressions – one, the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, and the other, Unites per Avançar – which at the time we decided to work together in these elections to Parliament at the expense of the exceptionality of the moment, of which we have not given complete consideration, therefore, the speech of our parliamentary group president, Mr Miquel Iceta, when he spoke of the need, therefore, to normalize the institutions and to advance in the defence, obviously, of self-government for the paths both of legality and of debate and of the policy dialogue. This, which we share enough, is the reason for which we went together, but we recognize ourselves as different political expressions in some areas, particularly in this concrete, so that you are putting us to the vote in this case, which is respectful of educational themes. And they force us, in a way, to abstain – and this is the sense of the explanation that I would like to make at the side of the chamber – because, despite the fact that there is a theme that calls for the separation of two concepts that are very different from our perspective – one, the defense of the Catalan school model, and the other, the differentiated school, the impedance of the different school concerts that they propose – because I cannot make a different vote, so I have been forced to make an abstention; one abstention that means they will never find Unites per Avançar voting against the Catalan school model, because we were at the same time at the concentrations before the meetings, and they will always, as they will obviously find, also at the Party of Socialists, and here we are. Therefore, be clear, clearly clear, what is the meaning of the vote. But we will never vote against a principle that is important to us, that is the freedom to create centres, the possibility that these are agreed, because we believe that it is the couples, we believe that it is..., and the seas, we believe that it is the families who must have the right to choose who is the educational model that they want for their children. And so, how come we don't want to vote against it either...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.105.0	Mr. Swordler, it's true that I didn't tell him time, but in any case I don't abuse, please, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.106.0	Many thanks for your permission, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.107.0	Thank you very much. Once we had this explanation of vote, we would proceed to the vote on the remainder of the motion for a resolution of the parliamentary... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, you're sorry? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me, yes; it is true that we have conceded that they would vote separately all and each of the points. So, once we've voted the second point, we'll do the first. Therefore, we will now vote on the first point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This point of this motion for a resolution was approved by 55 votes to 44, with 32 abstentions. Let's move on to the third point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This point of this motion for a resolution was approved by 59 votes to 40, with 33 abstentions. We will move to the fourth point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This was approved by 59 votes to 40, with 33 abstentions. We will move to the fifth point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This point of this motion for a resolution is rejected by 28 votes in favour, 104 against and no abstentions. And we would now vote on the point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This point of this motion for a resolution is rejected by 24 votes in favour, 107 against and no abstentions. There is no more way to vote on this motion for a resolution, and we would therefore move on to the next motion for a resolution, which is the one tabled by the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group to move forward. In this case, I was asked to vote separately on point 1, point 2.a, point 2. and point 2.b. Anyway, if it looks like it, we'll all vote separately, huh? [[Pause.]] We shall therefore proceed first to the vote on point 1 of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This point of this motion for a resolution is rejected by 56 votes in favour, 68 against and 8 abstentions. We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraph 2 of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 64 votes to 67, with no abstentions. We shall now proceed to the vote on point 2.b of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 20 votes to 76, with 36 abstentions. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 2.e. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Two, yes. This point of this motion for a resolution is rejected by 62 votes in favour, 69 against and 1 abstention. And we would now vote on the rest of the motion for a resolution, namely points 2.c and 2.d. The vote begins. These two points were rejected by 28 votes in favour, 68 against and 36 abstentions. We have therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the Socialist and Unitarian Group to move forward. We will then vote on the motion for a resolution submitted by the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, with the relevant transactions that all groups have. In this case it has also been requested that all points be voted separately. We shall therefore begin by voting on the first point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This point was approved by 76 votes to 17, with no abstentions. We shall now proceed to the vote on the second point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This was approved by 68 votes to 25, with 1 abstention. And we'd move to the 2 bis point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This point was approved by 76 votes to 17, with no abstentions. We would therefore move to point 3 of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This was approved by 77 votes to 16, with no abstentions. And we would now vote on a quarter of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This was approved by 76 votes to 17, with no abstentions. We would now vote on the 4 bis point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This was approved by 68 votes to 17, with 8 abstentions. We shall now proceed to the vote on the fifth part of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This point would be approved by 68 votes in favour, 25 against and no abstentions. And we will now proceed to the approval of point 6 of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. That point 6 of this motion for a resolution was approved by 67 votes to 24, with no abstentions. And now we shall proceed to the vote. [[Funnel veils]] , yes – of point 6 bis of this motion for a resolution. Before, however, Secretary Pérez asked me to go to the chamber for a minute. Please, secretaries.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.108.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Actually, we didn't..., I was at the Bureau, but I didn't have the opportunity to explain, like at least the members of my parliamentary group, what was expressed on the part of the electorate, and I would like to say, quickly, two things. The first, which actually the speakers to the Bureau have said that the compromise proposals were affected by Rule 37.d and, therefore, the Bureau has to qualify, according to the Rules, all the written, and this was also a writing that had to be qualified by the Bureau, and also to say that it has not been done, that the Bureau has not made the qualification of the point that we are voting at this time. And secondly – President, I am finished – I would also like to express the reservations that the speakers have explained about the point that we are voting at this time, because they could contravene some of the resolutions of the Constitutional Court, specifically the resolution that we have, the two members of the Bureau, Mr José María Espejo and myself, which speaks of a violation of 114, when it explains that we have the duty to prevent or paralyse any initiative that would ignore or circumvent the agreed suspension, and also, in particular, to refrain from initiating, processing, informing or dictating, in the context of their respective competences, any agreement or action that would confer legal value on any of these resolutions affected by the Constitutional Court. And we think – and so, in this way, so do the lletrats – that the 6a, when it wants to cease the State's interferences on preventing what has been legitimately expressed in the referendum of self-determination in Catalonia on October 1, can – in fact, we think that yes, and the others also think this way – contravene any of the resolutions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.109.0	Thank you, Mr. Perez. We shall now proceed to the vote on this point 6a of the Junts motion for a resolution for Catalonia... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. He forgives – he forgives –, we hold the vote. Yes, Mr. Riera, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.110.0	Thank you, President. I ask for the word to read, because the Bureau authorizes me to read this point 6a and explain very briefly the reason for which we are asking this request.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.111.0	In any case, you may request that the Bureau read this point, explain why it requests that the Bureau read this point, and a member of the Bureau will proceed to read this point before the vote. Mr. Riera, for that matter, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.112.0	Thank you, President. So, we would ask that you get this point, as long as our group cannot renounce or admit that this Parliament never renounces its sovereignty, the right and obligation it has and the right it has to represent popular sovereignty in all its expressions, including that which was expressed in the elections of 21 December, and we cannot admit in any way that it is intended to prevent the free expression of the democratic debate and the free compliment of the parliamentary groups on the right and the right, I insist, to end their electoral compromise by supporting their agenda. And, therefore, as long as, moreover, we consider the reference of '1 October to be absolutely legitimate, that is why we ask that we be able to read this aside from this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.113.0	Very well, therefore, as is normally done, I would preach to Secretary Campdepadros that we can read this point 6 bis of this motion for a resolution, and, all the while, we will proceed to his vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.114.0	We proceed to the reading of point 6a. « 6 bis. It requires that the Government of the State cease its actions before the courts and the Constitutional Court which seek to prevent the materialization of this democratic will of the representatives of the people of Catalonia, so as to be legitimately expressed in the referendum on self-determination in Catalonia on 1 October. It determines that this Parliament and its Presidency act immediately on all its instruments and procedures in order to ensure without restrictions the civil and political rights of all its elected representatives, to restore all its institutions, starting with its presidency, and its powers to legislate and govern in favour of the social, civil and political rights of all Catalans, without exclusions, to build a new country that is just, inclusive and supportive for everyone, as it is now in the matter of return of all that has been established in the laws and social and environmental decrees approved in this chamber in the last legislature and suspected for the Spanish Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-01-0201.115.0	All right. We shall proceed to the vote. The vote begins. This point 6a of Junts' motion for a resolution for Catalonia is approved by 68 votes to 8, with no abstentions. And we shall now proceed to the vote on the next motion for a resolution, which is the one tabled by the Ciutadans Group. I recall that in this case I was asked to vote separately from the third point. We would therefore proceed to vote first on the third point and then on the rest of the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This third point of this motion for a resolution is rejected by 56 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. And we would now vote on the rest of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 56 votes to 76, with no abstentions. And now it is time to vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. In this case, the joint motion for a resolution is voted on. Let's start the vote. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 75. [[remorse of the eyes and laughs]] and no abstention. If no motion for a resolution remains to be voted on, all will have been voted on. Therefore, the session rises. Thank you very much.
