ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.1.0	Good morning, the session begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] If it's not quiet, we won't be able to start the session; thank you. The session begins. And I'm guessing that the list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is included in the Ple's file. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item on the order of the day of this plenary session. Before, however, let me give my welcome and greet Mrs. Anna Erra, Mr. Marc Sanglas and Mrs. Lluïsa Llop, the new Members and Members who have joined parliamentary tasks today. Therefore, welcome to this chamber, or welcome back, in some case, to this Parliament. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before starting the corresponding order of the day, I must inform you that the past dilluns, divided by June, unfortunately, a woman was murdered as a result of male violence, in this case, to Badalona. According to the official data of the Department of Interior, it is about the second death victim of this year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, therefore, I regret and condemn this crime, which affects us all and everyone and expresses the deepest and deepest condolences to their family members. Thus, I repeat the compromise, as we have always shown, of the Parliament, of this Parliament, in the eradication of any form of violence against women. Let's move now to the first point of the order of the day that are the questions with oral answer to the Government. [[Ask the Government about social loguer activities]] [[310-00007/12]] [[The first question to the Government is about social loguer activities. The question is posed by Mr Antoni Morral, from the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.]] [[When you want, Congressman.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.2.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. This is a question addressed to the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability. Access to housing is now one of the most significant social problems in the country. In fact, the number of denunciations, while decreasing slightly, is alarming, and the situation is described as dramatic. According to the Judicial Power Council of the year 2017, 13,308 launches took place in Catalonia. Historical housing policies, to facilitate access to property, have led to the public sector not having enough social housing to cope with the crisis we are experiencing. I would like to refer to the way in which we can expand a social housing stock, which is currently insufficient, in the light of the historical dynamics of housing policy, in which private purchase and promotion have always been a priority. In the past legislature, however, priority has been given to the policy of logging, in fact, historically, public policies promoting social housing have been focused on the purchase of soil and the subsequent construction of protected habitats at low taxes, therefore based on the culture of ownership, which has meant a significant lack of logging public property housing. We are aware that this Parliament has made a legislative effort in the later legislature to correct the trend of denunciations; an effort that has been partially invalidated by the Constitutional Court, which does not cease to surprise, this contrast, since the same Spanish Constitution contemplates the right to a habitat worthy of a universal right for everyone. We also value the task of the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia, that in a period of presuppositional difficulties, in the past years, has gone from to stall 22,100 actions of help in the matter of housing, the year 2012, to 72,007 in 2017, and to allocate 50,8_million euros, in 2012, to 128_million euros, in 2017. But, despite this, and in keeping with the current context of the budgetary recovery of the administrations, we understand that the Government of Catalonia must make an effort to increase the social housing stock and to lodge and so facilitate access to protected housing for citizens and be able to give residential coverage to families in a vulnerable situation. And this, done in close cooperation with local administrations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.3.0	Mr. Congressman, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.4.0	At all events, they ask the counselor... (The president withdraws the microphone's use at the clock and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.5.0	To answer, has the word Mr.Damià Calvet, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability. Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.6.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, we have been working, since the government, to increase the housing stock of social logger to be able to give a solution to the most vulnerable families in our country, at times, sailing against the regulation of the State. It is one of the strategic objectives of the Department of Territories and Sustainability, a task for the new Secretaries of Urban and Territories – Mr.Agusti Serra and his team, whom I take advantage of to greet – the increase in the social housing stock in Catalonia. And, in this sense, one of the ways to increase this park in a faster and more effective way is from, we believe, buying by storm and retraction, the park, which is ultimately a private park, from the financial entities and from the large housing estates, the park comes from mortgages. I would like to recall that the year 2015 was approved by Decree Law 1/2015, which allowed the locals and entities of the third sector to acquire these habitats preferentially for this right of storm and retreat. One option, one procedure that no one else has regulated and with which, so far, we have managed to acquire more than a thousand habitats. Despite this possibility, local authorities and third-sector entities have not been able to acquire 308, General 1,000, third-sector entities and local administrations, 308. And that made the government decide to take action, so as to strengthen this possibility, this storm and retreat option. Last week, the vice president and I announced a line of financing, a line of financing of the Catalan Institute of Finance, of 110_million euros for joints and entities of the third sector to acquire up to 1,800 habitats, 1,800 that will be used, primarily, before we say so, to families with a situation of vulnerability. In this same line, with this package of measures, it also presented a line of credit with 140_million euros to help promoters, both public and private, housing, iron, also social logger promotions. This line of financing can also give us, at short notice, up to a thousand dwellings in..., each one or in those I have chosen, of the one hundred and fifty municipalities that have an accredited demand for social loguer. Therefore, with these two actions it will be possible to increase the stock of social logger habitats, in short terms, in 2,800 habitats.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about the actions related to the defense of the masters]] [[310-00008/12]] [[Now, the next question is about the actions related to the defense of the masters, and the formulation by Mr Xavier Quinquilla, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.8.0	Thank you, Mr. President. In the first place, and before I enter the matter, I feel obliged to say that, in normal circumstances, this question is addressed to Constellera Ponsati, to whom, from the imposed distance, we want to send all our thanks and gratitude for the work done. Unfortunately, we are still immersed in intolerable normality, with prisoners and exiles, which we will not tire of denouncing. This first control session above shortly after the repeal of the application of Article 155, set_months of deep abnormality, during which we saw how one of the pillars of the country as our educational model was at risk. On one side, attacking the linguistic model that, in an attempt to break a system that is a guarantee of cohesion and equality of opportunity for everyone; and, on the other, limiting freedom of speech in the classroom and exercising direct coercion over our teachers, from an unprecedented judicial offensive against the faculty, such as the case experienced at Seu d'Urgell, recently filed, or that of the El Palau Institute, of Sant Andreu de la Barca, to which from here we want to give them all our support and escalf. A few facts incompatible with the respect that our teachers deserve from us, to their training activity and to the school itself, understood as a space of education in values, where freedom, respect and coexistence are essential to promote a critical thinking and, at the same time, to form citizens with criteria and opinion, which can speak and debate with full freedom about the reality that surrounds them. In the face of attacks on the model of the Catalan school and our teachers, the role of the entire educational community has been exemplary and, especially, those who have been patenting it more directly, as is the case with teachers, teachers and headmasters. A recognition that we also want to extend to those responsible for the Department of Education, who, in some very difficult circumstances, have managed with discretion and firmness a underground pulse with the Government of Madrid, avoiding creating red lines and safeguarding our educational model; a model of success engine of cohesion, the fruit of a broad social and political consensus, which we must continue to preserve for the sake of all. Made our appreciation, now, Mr. Counsellor, we ask you what appreciation the role of the educational community, especially the teachers and the Administration, in defending the model of Catalan school and freedom of expression in the classrooms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to answer, has the word Mr. Josep Bargalló, Counselor of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.10.0	Thank you, President. Member, I am pleased that my first intervention in this chamber is, precisely, to talk about the Catalan school model and its defence, following your question. We've said it since the first day and we'll say it every day: the Catalan school model is a model of success. We have an excellent school, which we need to improve – which we need to improve – but we have a school that is excellent and that is a model of success. And it's thanks to the masters, the teachers, the teachers, the management teams, the technical services and the staff of the Department of Education. In these last few months, this has been seen in an exemplary way. The application of the 155, which has prevented that, from a political direction of the department, which can be spoken in public, is exercised in a clear way, in a change, it has been achieved that the work day to our classrooms, that the work day to our schools, that the work of the high offices of the department that did not cease, that the constant attacks come from outside the educational system with the will to distort, repress and wrongly do not sunk its tape. We are the educational authority of Catalonia. There is no educational authority in Catalonia other than us. The Government of the Generalitat is the only educational authority in Catalonia and we will exercise this authority. And to exercise it is to claim that everything that happens in our classrooms is to be solved in our centers and that everything that happens in our centers is to be solved in the Teaching Department. And claim that people outside the educated world want to intervene there. We do not accept external interference in the educated world. We are the educational authority in Catalonia. We will exercise educational authority in Catalonia and claim maximum and absolute respect for the master, the teacher...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.11.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.12.0	...and to the management team. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the actions planned to defend the teachers and the model of Catalan school]] [[310-00009/12]] [[The next question is about the actions planned to defend the teachers and the model of Catalan school, and it is formulated by Mr Jordi Albert, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.14.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good morning to everyone, workers and workers of the Parliament, on November 7, 2017, eight teachers of the Seu d'Urgell, declared for an alleged crime of incitement to hatred and a few days later, it was known that the focus was also on the El Palau Institute, of Sant Andreu de la Barca. For all of them, all of our support and our escalph. Today, of course, the Marisol, teacher of the Seu d'Urgell, will accompany us. Welcome Marisol to your house, to Parliament. Sant Jordi's day is public ugly, through the media, the complaint of the prosecution for hate crime and discrimination against new teachers of the El Palau Institute. According to the prosecutor's office, on October 2 and 20, 2017, some teachers at the centre would have vexed the children of civilian guards because of their nationality and insulted the State's security bodies. The teachers point out that the debates in the classroom about the events of October 1 were based on the values promoted and claimed by the Catalan school and that the El Palau Institute has made its own: respect, empathy, diversity and critical spirit. During these months, television cameras in front of the institute and the dissemination of the complaint and subsequent publication of names, surnames and photographs, accusing and asignating, violating the principle of presumption of innocence, have affected and have done much harm to both the teacher and the student of the center. And here the exhibitions of cross-support to the teachers are multiplied as in the concentration of the '1 May before the Assembly of Sant Andreu de la Barca, as in the act of reading the public manifesto on May 10, or also on June 3 and June 10, in various mobilizations that have taken place in Sant Andreu and also here in Barcelona, always with the participation of the families, the ancient students and the teachers who have organized on the platform of support 9 of Palau. The frontal attack on the school model in our country and on freedom of speech in the classroom is a direct attack on one of the great pillars of democracy. Unfortunately, today in Catalonia there are teachers who have to, today in Catalonia they have to be accused unjustly. And, therefore, what they claim is that they want to educate in freedom and make the exercise free of their profession. We need to get the jutja school out. Here in Parliament, Together for Catalonia, Catalonia in Comú Pode, the CUP and our group, the Group Republicà, we have presented a proposal for a resolution of support to the teachers of El Palau that will be voted and debated in parliamentary committee. Before all this happened, and before we learned yesterday that, in his case, the two teachers who were on file in the case, the prosecutor has resorted to it, we ask the councillor whose actions are due at the end of his department to defend the teachers and the educational community before the court that is patenting the Catalan school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. Counselor Bargalló responds again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.16.0	Thank you, President. Member, last week, summoned for the Synod of Greuges, to the El Palau Institute, of Sant Andreu, they gathered the same syndic, the direction of the center, representatives of the educational community, families denouncing the prosecution and the courts, and I myself, and other inspection and department members. She met for various reasons. First, to express the support of the Department of Teaching to the faculty, which knows that it has the legal services of the department to its service, which knows that the department will always defend the faculty before everyone, externally – internally, the work is ours. But to also express support for those students who may have felt at the length of this time – at the length of this time – with their rights altered, and to claim that who should decide whether the rights of the students were unjustly altered is the Department of Education, not the prosecution, not the courts. I have to say – I have to say – that some of the complainant families heard this and that some of the complainant families told us that they were thinking of filing their complaint with the department, which is where they should have put it in the right beginning. Let me make it clear – let me make it clear – that we will always defend the faculty, always defend the student and always defend the families, and that, if there is tension between one another, that it is logical that there is, because in a teaching for competitions and criticism it is logical that there is, the Department of Education has the instruments to do it. In any case, what is obvious is that, before the judgments of His already existing – and I went to visit His to do the same as I did to Sant Andreu –, before two judicial judgments said that the courts do not see...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.17.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.18.0	...so, keep acting.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the actions related to the Youth Guarantee Plan]] [[310-00010/12]] The next question is about the actions related to the Youth Guarantee Plan, and the formula Mrs Rut Ribas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.20.0	Thank you, President. We address the Honourable Councillor El Homrani to find out what is the government's understanding of the Youth Guarantee Plan. As we know, the economic crisis has worsened the situation of young people and has meant that the youth unemployment rate and working conditions among young people are precarious and vulnerable; in concrete terms, youth unemployment continues to be above 20_per_cent in the first quarter of 2018 and the percentage of school drop-out exceeds 18_per_cent, both twice the European Union. To a good extent it is for these reasons that the year 2013 was the birth of the youth guarantee programme, a programme to combat and reduce the youth unemployment rate, the school drop-out rate and the increase in the quality of the young people's work. In practice, however, we have found that European resources have been less than needed. And, besides, the Spanish State added to this project three years later, missing the amount of money that had to come to us, names making us reach 50_per_cent. Despite the difficulties we have encountered, Catalonia has been able to implement the Youth Guarantee thanks to the involvement of the Government of Catalonia and above all thanks to the collaboration of other social agents, such as youth entities. And now it is necessary to continue building this innovative and useful tool that has allowed many young people in the country a job contract and new opportunities. Between the different programs..., the deployment took place through the network of youth guarantee pushers and pushers, located mainly at the young offices of the territory. We know that it has been a cross-cutting deployment and that it has aged for guidance in the occupational field of young people. But at the end of this month, they finish the contractions that make the pulse network possible. And we'd like to know how the government will continue to support and care for young beneficiaries of the youth guarantee. We are waiting for the government's commitment and for you to face this challenge by providing solutions. We have to bear in mind that they depend on everyone's will to end young people's precariousness. And we place them to continue working for the benefit of youth, always from a cross-sectional and integral perspective, so that they and young people can have a process of emancipation with the necessary stability to build our future. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr. Chakir El Homrani, Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.22.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. I think it's important the sensitisation that you yourself have made that the cruelest face you've had of job insecurity and vulnerability in the world of work have followed and continue to feel young people. This led to the growth and construction of the successful youth guarantee program, which has improved data. The data you planted in 2013 have varied in strength compared to 2017: the youth rate is lower, much lower, but people cannot be happy, and the drop-out rate has dropped in nine points; it is also a positive view. I believe that this programme has been built with the effort of transversality on the part of the entire Government of the Generality, but especially with the effort of dialogue and consensus with social agents, economic agents, local authorities, and especially with a very clear role of youth entities. And I think we can be happy with that. And so it has been recognized: we have been recognised for the European Commission, we have been recognised for the ILO, for the way in which we have put in place the Youth Guarantee Programme; and we have even won the MYFER Award of 2017, from the Assembly of the Regions. I think you might be happy. From now on, what do we have ahead of 2018 and how will we continue to advance around the youth guarantee program? The first aspect, in general terms, is the willingness to simplify programs and more specific work in the most vulnerable collections among young people. From here, in July we will have a new edition of the New Opportunities programs, which have worked together with the Department of Education. We are also working on an important call for unique programs, once we also have a new call for young people in practice, which must allow us to have 1,400 young people who have training but who do not have work experience can be contracted with the support of the Government of Catalonia. And the most important aspect: the change around the figure of the thrusters. The normal change forces us to make a change around this figure, and what we want to do is to work it out in the face that its capillaryness in the territory is very important and that its ability to influence the most vulnerable collectivities is very important. From here, what we will create is the figure of the youth occupation referents, figure that has to give answer to these needs and maintain... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the latest decisions in external action]] [[310-00001/12]] The next question is about the last decisions in external action. The formula is Mr.Alejandro Fernández, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.24.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, do you intend to continue the political and strategic line you have been developing in Diplomat since 2012? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.25.0	Reply by Mr Ernest Maragall, Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.26.0	Yes, Mr. Deputy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.27.0	Mr. Fernández, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.28.0	Thank you, Mr. Counselor, for your flowery and generous answer. That's what you are about government diplomacy... what will the others be like? They choose you with a good tine. [[Greetings.]] I'll explain to you a little, since you don't want to, what the movie's about. The six years of Diplomat basically consisted in liquidated the positive legacy that the Catalan Patronat pro Europe had had since the year 82; which, by the way, since 2007, with the creation of the Catalonia Mon Patronat, had deteriorated considerably. What you have done has not been to promote Catalonia; what you have done, in the first place, is to discredit Spain, which is internationally to discredit Catalonia, because nobody – nobody – in Europe thinks that Catalonia and Spain are different realities. And they have done so, secondly, always with lack of transparency and opacity. In the past mandate, up to five times we asked them about the rental price of the embassies. We were only given the one in Brussels. And they refused to give us the details of the representation expenses. Thirdly, alleged misappropriation of public revenues, investigated by the justice system, with particularly bloody cases such as subsidies to the Catalunya Món Foundation, whose president has been arrested, inter alia, for diverting funds for aid to the Third World for the separatist process. Here you have reached your particular heaven, moral misery and ignominy. And finally, fourth, and returning to the question of the legacy to which I referred at the beginning: destruction of decades of work by excellent professionals in the field of international relations in Catalonia. In 2014, Nació Digital titled: "Disease in Convergence by the Spanishism of the Cidob. It was a nauseous campaign, led by elements related to Diplomat, to discredit Carles Gasòliba, a life-long convergent, but who had become a botifler and traitor. What had been his crime? To say in an interview, with all the reason of the world, previously, that the Catalan model had ceased to be a reference in Europe since the beginning of the separatist process. In short, embezzlement, opacity, contempt, stigmatization of professionals. That's his balance sheet. Can you continue? As you said a moment ago. Well, you can go on. But justice will continue to act; you will never have impunity, nor dream of it. And secondly, politically, we will continue to watch, because you already know where it leads the way you have gone. In his hand he's either going through it or not. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, it's Councilman Maragall's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.30.0	Yeah. Mr. Congressman, no impunity, no impunity, we always have it, no... better said, we accept it, eh? , the exercise responsible for our government actions. What we do, in the name of this responsibility, is precisely not just yes, as I answered before, but yes and more; yes and better, if we can, eh? ; yes and with the maximum commitment to defend the general interest of this country and of Catalan society, of all the citizens of Catalonia, of the 7_million_i_mig of citizens of Catalonia, and yes with compromise with our involvement, with our relevance, with our respect to the international institutions, to the European Union, especially. The mark of our performance are the treaties of the United Nations, the treaties of the European Union, the international treaties which bind us. And here we will find out who is Europeanist and who is not, who is acting in defence of the principles, of these principles of the United Nations, of the European Union and of the international treaties in this period, at this time, as we have also listened to the question of refugees today. We'll have a lot of important debates on this, and we'll have to support them. And we'll participate, be present. This department has already begun, and it has begun recovering, betraying it from the black hole in which you had laid it. They tried to liquidate that department, as they tried to liquidate the conjunction of the Government of Catalonia. They didn't get it, and now this department is alive and well. I assure you that we have a team of professionals committed to the general interest of this country that will be a reference of quality and respect for the conjunction of our international action. We will open the delegations, we will recover..., the Diplomat, of course, is not in liquidation, Mr Fernández, is not in liquidation, is in reactivation; in well thought out, well designed, shared with the group of institutions of the country, representing the country – and not the Government – that are behind and that will be at the front, and that we will do a powerful and clear act. Miri, yesterday the representative of the CAP of the European Commission came to explain to us the new lines of agricultural policy. Counselor Teresa Jordà was there. Whatever we do will be there, don't expect them to tell us what's going on. They're part of it. We'd be here with the Diplomacy, with the delegations, with the government's conjunction...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.31.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.32.0	...and that is what will effectively enable us to increase and improve our international presence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.33.0	The next question is about digital policies. [[Ask the Government about digital policies]] [[310-00005/12]] The formula Mr Carlos Carrizosa on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.34.0	Mr. Puignero, good morning. You in your first statements as a counselor have been proud of the role you played on October 1 in the illegal referendum by which you are being investigated judicially. Can you explain to all Catalans today what exactly is the reason for your pride? Do you believe that you are an adviser to this government precisely because of the role it played on October 1st?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Counsellor of Digital Policies and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.36.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. I understand that this question, in the first place, should be put to the President, who appointed me, in a portfolio that is new and that I think would be very necessary for the moment we live. This will be a century, surely, digital and city. And that means that from this government we will do everything possible because our citizens are digitally empowered, because we can participate much more in the politics of the territory they want, the country they want, and that, obviously, in pride, because we have a model in which we rely on people and give them the opportunity to vote and express ourselves in order to decide the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.38.0	Yeah. Look, Mr. Puigneró, we are concerned that you in your first interview boasted that you were the architect of the computer chiringuito who set up Mr. Puigdemont and Mr. Junqueras to steal and illegally use the personal data of all Catalans. It's probably that from his resume that's what made him a counselor. In any democratic country that would have motivated you to be disqualified from doing that function, and Mr. Torra, therefore, appoints you as head of digital policies, Digital Policy Advisor in this government; it is putting the wolf to take care of the sheep. But maybe it's something unfair and you've also weighed your resume, for example, these anti-Spanish and supremacist tweets that you have posted on Twitter. Perhaps, as Mr. Torra in that shares his opinion, so too must he have made him a counselor. Or perhaps also because you are already a veteran in planting the head of state at an event as important for Catalans technologically as Mobile. Now Mr. Torra, at a sporting event of the utmost importance like the Mediterranean Games, also wants to plant the head of state. You have in common that you want to divide us and that you want to ruin and impoverish Catalonia. Look, when you think you're an activist of a CDR and not a government, open your bank account and look at the salary you charge, which is more than Pedro Sánchez's, for being a Generalitat advisor, for respecting the laws. That's what all Catalans pay for. Because of the illegalities you've committed in the past, you'll answer. But what we're asking you now is that from now on, you react and work for all Catalans and you don't skip the laws. We, from Ciutadans, will be very careful that you respect us, respect all those Catalans who pay you the salary. We will not let you, as in the past, abuse your office again. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.39.0	Mr. Counselor, isn't it? [[Pause.]] [[Ask the Government about cultural diversity]] [[310-00006/12]] Let's move on to the next question. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please. Let us turn to the following question, on cultural diversity, question posed by Mr Fernando de Páramo on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Ciutadans. Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.40.0	How little is used to parliamentary and democratic control by those who want to be out of control. But in any case, last June 7th was going to... [[Each member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group places a copy of El Quixot damunt the escho.]] On June 7th, a tribute, a tribute to Miguel de Cervantes, was to be celebrated in the Magna Classroom of the University of Barcelona, to a world leader in culture. And I say, "I was going, because at last it could not be celebrated, and the Cervantes facade could not be honored at the public university of all Catalans. As a Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Borràs, do you plan to do anything? Are you going to condemn these facts, or are you going to keep looking elsewhere when you can't honor a reference of world culture such as writer Miguel de Cervantes? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to Ms. Laura Borràs, Culture Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.42.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman... [[The councillor turns to the Escons of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.]] Oh, that's cute, this picture, I didn't see it. [[Greetings.]] I love seeing all the members of the Citizens' Group with this defense of El Quixote de la Mancha, which, as you know, is a book that I have studied, worked on..., have academic publications respecting... Yesterday I myself received an invitation from a professor specializing in El Quixote de la Mancha of the Complutense University, who knows my devotion to this book. I hope they've all read it. [[relays]] If you don't, like he's getting ready... [[Greetings.]] I just want to finish... that the best tribute that can be made to El Quixote de la Mancha is to read it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.43.0	Mr. De Paramo?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.44.0	I haven't heard a sentence, I haven't heard any criticism of that vandal act of insults, threats... and it's just that you can't normalize what's not normal. It's not normal... boycotts, insults, threats, when it's intended to honor Cervantes. Nor is it normal for the party that has won the elections in Catalonia to have to be escorted to Vic and insult him, to look at him with hatred..., and to insult him, in short, surrounded in Vic's square. That's not normal. You pretend to normalize what's not normal, and you look the other way. Wake up, Governor of the yellow bond, wake up to reality and land in the reality of Catalonia, that in the reality of Catalonia occur those things that you intend to cover up; and unfortunately there is division, even if you deny it. But, of course, the first thing that would have to be done is to denounce that diversity cannot be defended, that culture cannot be defended in the public university of all Catalans. But you haven't. But how will you do it if you have subscribed that the Spanish is a language of domination, as you signed in a manifesto. It's hard for me to defend it. His silence speaks for itself. And a Culture Counsellor has to defend diversity above whether or not to wear the yellow tie. Stop looking at the flap of Catalans every day and think a little more about the citizens of Catalonia as a whole. And, as I say to you, since the CoRs that you defend and whiten with layers and swords, did not allow that tribute to be celebrated, did not allow..., that those insults, those threats that lived at the University of Barcelona, we will make a humble and small tribute, because in the face of hatred, in the face of insult, one word: freedom. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.45.0	Yes, she'll advise, when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.46.0	Yeah, I do, don't I? Were you expecting my answer? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I do, I answer. Against intolerance, always. Will we find ourselves, all of us, against intolerance? Because we are. We're well awake. He has asked us to wake up; we are well awake. They're wearing groceries. And intolerance in patim all. And against intolerance they'll always find us there. But we have to be all of them. Don't see things... you say we normalize some things and not some other things. Given what reality we are living by, sharing the reality we are living by. Miguel de Cervantes learned a lot, from galeres – he explains it in El Quixote. They're the recommendation, El Quixot. Also the episode of the book cream. Also the episodes in which this repression was condemned, which he suffered, and which, therefore, I hope we all find, against intolerance. We... the government of Catalonia is always there. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the actions in relation to the Decree for which the prices of academic services are fixed at public universities in Catalonia and at the Open University of Catalonia]] [[310-00002/12]] The next question is about acting in relation to... [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please. It is in relation to the Decree for which the prices of academic services are fixed at public universities in Catalonia and at the Open University of Catalonia. The question is posed by Ms.Alícia Romero, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.48.0	Good morning, President, thank you very much. Let's see if we start with institutional normality, which we've never seen before. In any case, I wanted first of all publicly to give the greeting to Constellera Chacón for her new responsibility and to wish them very uncertain, because we need them and this country needs them. We want to wait for the government's action, that's right. But also, perhaps, in a government that is always full of symbols and gestures, we would have waited for a consultancy of Universities, Research and Innovation. I had asked the university community insistently, during the election campaign. Looks like it couldn't have been. At least in the State we will have this ministry, and I hope that this will help us to put these issues on the political agenda that are so important for the country's present and future, especially considering that knowledge is the key to social and economic progress, and that we should take all of this into account, and universities are the central focus of this knowledge. We've got a lot of reps. Today I come to talk about a lot in concrete. We're done a few days ago with selectivity. Aviat began registrations, university degrees, and in the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia the proposal for a price decree was presented. For us, very disappointing. You know that from the year 2012 taxes a 66_per_cent. They are Spain's highest taxes, in all areas of knowledge. The most expensive university career in the Spanish State is medicine, with 2,372_euros. To put them just an example of outside the State, the Paris Sorbonne costs 450_euros, studying medicine. Therefore, we have very high, very high taxes. We would like to know if this council, if this government, intends to change the policy that it started and that the Puigdemont government followed and if, therefore, it thinks that there is an important change in this sense, taking into account that at these times 25_percent of the cost of the materials is supported by the students, in relation to the 12,4 that they supported the year 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.49.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply Maria Àngels Chacón, Business and Coneixement Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.50.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, you know we're defending the social pricing model, we're defending paying more than you have and paying less than you have. And we base it on two concepts: taxes and scholarships. It's obvious we've just been through a period of more abnormality than manifests. We have defended, however, despite the fact that there is this lack of funding, that it applies without a few scholarships, the equity scholarships, which in some cases have meant more than 30_percent reduction in prices, but we are very much aware that the challenges we have to face are two: one, to provide enough funding to the universities, so we will examine, therefore, the different options that there are, also more funding than the direct from the Public Administration, and that we will do so because we have a challenge, all of us have a challenge, which is the National Pact for University and Search. We are not going to lay pieces; it is time to face the problems in a structural way, in a definitive way. And this is our compromise. It therefore increased and achieved more funding for universities and now gradually reduced student fees. And that's what we have to do. And while they ask for their support on the subject of scholarships, that if you please help us that the Spanish Government completes this sentence already – one of the many that there is – of the Constitutional Court, on the subject that the competence in the management of scholarships should be of the Generality of Catalonia, should be transferred to the Generality of Catalonia. This means that students take these scholarships sometimes late. In change, if you're managed from the Government of the Generality, that wouldn't happen. Therefore, compromise firmly. We're conscious. And the fact that there is no specific advice I assure you that it will not imply much less that this is a matter to which we pay less attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.51.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.52.0	Well, by the way, it looks like they're changing this policy. I assure you that we will be very loving, because the university community has been asking for a change in politics for many months now and we have not seen it. I trust your word, but I assure you we'll be very much on that. He said: "More funding for universities. So good. I asked the counselor, the ex-advisor Mas-Colell has only been in a Catalan newspaper for a few days. Let us hope that now is the time of the universities, that taxes will be lowered; the Equity scholarships are not enough: only 12.4_per_cent of Catalan students finance their tuition costs via Equity scholarships. And so they'll find us on demand in the state for the return of these competitions, but they think we're talking about resources, not just competitions. They have competence in the job inspection and do not use it. Therefore, competition and resources must be maintained.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.53.0	Mrs. Romero, it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.54.0	Thank you. [[Greetings. The President gives the word to the Business and Knowledge Councillor.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.55.0	Yes, thank you. Meanwhile, for this reason, I would like to help these two things: one, as I said, to the compliment of this ruling by the Constitutional Court – these powers must be managed from here – and the other, to the issue of transfer financing, which correspond to the Spanish Government. I'm sure we'll work together and get this major funding for the Catalan university, I'm not convinced.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.56.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the activities related to the financing of municipal schools in Bressol]] [[310-00003/12]] The next question is about actions related to the financing of municipal schools. The formula is Mrs Esther Niubó, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.57.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, honourable Councillor Bargalló, well, as you know, education in the first childhood is fundamental, has an impact, therefore, very important and positive on the development of children, also in academic returns in the long term, and therefore has much to see with the policies of school success. But not only that, it is a stage with a huge neutralizing impact of inequalities that tend to reproduce across school life and therefore also has a very positive impact in terms of equity. Despite this, the Government of the Generalitat, in 2011, began to detail the game destined to break schools until the point that almost disappeared in 2014, and, therefore, despite being an exclusive competence of the Government of the Generalitat, since 2014, the Government of the..., the government's compromise that preceded them, has therefore been zero and we have kept zero_euros destined for this. So much so that the contributions of families, together, have gone from being a third, when the contribution of the Government of Entesa was 1,800_euros per square, to costing 83_percent of the total price of the square. That said, bearing in mind that this abandonment on the part of the Government of the municipal schools has led to the reduction – even, limitation – of the possibility of these students, of many students, to access this decisive stage, which is their ability to respect the recovery of co-responsibility in the financing of this service, and to what extent they intend to guarantee their sustainability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.58.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Counselor of Teaching responds, Mr. Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.59.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, this government's capture is, on the basis of its assumptions, to re-engage directly in the co-responsibility with municipalities and families in the financing of public places from zero to three.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.60.0	To answer the question, the return of Congresswoman Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.61.0	Well, counselor, I'm glad to hear those words, at least we have this predisposition. I'd say the same thing I gave my partner before, we'd go on... we'd go on and follow whatever it takes. And in this sense, therefore, I wanted to remind him of two questions: this Parliament a year ago, in April 2017, approved a motion which I presented myself in which, among many other things, proposed that the Government present a map of the offer of the bressol schools, of the lars of existing children, so as to assess which one was its own sufficiency, to analyse also the inequalities existing in the territory, and so on, in order to promote proper planning. Obviously, in collaboration with the assemblies, and this with two objectives: a first, which was to move towards the universalization of this fundamental educational stage and, obviously, also, therefore, to increase the public places of zero-three and increase the number of children, of socially disadvantaged families who do not have access or, in any case, to ensure that many more of them have access to this educational stage. Therefore, I would invite you – it seems to me that it would be a good starting point – to recover this motion and to guarantee us, therefore, to compromise 'in addition to their commitments. And, above all, in the second place, I wanted to ask you for something else on behalf of my group, which is that I am pleased with the Catalan municipalities that have been supporting this public service in their spaces. He knows perfectly well the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which obliges the Generality to return this debt, and, in this sense, I want to ask him, on the margins of the appeal that you have filed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.62.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.63.0	...is committed before this Parliament to completing with this... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.64.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.65.0	This government's commitment is not only for the future, to return to full and active participation in the co-responsibility in the financing of zero-three places, it is also to participate on the side of that municipal in the planning that you are doing, and we will recover the approved motion, obviously, as it cannot otherwise be. And the compromise is, also, with the Association of Municipis and the Federation of Municipis working together as, for a song, hard to practice the feeling to which you make it, and that we have submitted a recourse to the Supreme to make it cash, because there are various feelings that do not say the same, and therefore we want to know what we will finally force the feelings. But if they force us, we want to talk to all the municipalities, to those who have made legal appeals and to those who have not, to all the municipalities that have supported zero-three education, to speak as we can to make up for the past, to a proposal that we would prefer to have been of the future, and that, therefore, the compensation of the past was a job in the future. But let's talk about it, we'll reach consensus with the Association of Municipis, with the Federation of Municipis. We will explain it to the parliamentary groups, we will listen to what the parliamentary groups have to tell us, but I insist, in the message that I would like, on behalf of the Government, to make it clear today, is that the Government feels absolutely responsible to the municipal world and to the families of the sustenance, the financing and the planning of the zero-three. And that the government will do it, it will do it hard as it pleases, and it will do it at the expense of the assemblies in which it responds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.66.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the price of university degrees]] [[310-00004/12]] The government's last question is about the price of university degrees, and the formula Mrs. Elisenda Alamany, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.67.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, March 12, June, close to 34,000 students were tested for university access. We ask them if the Government of the Generality intends to lower the price of university degrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.68.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply Maria Àngels Chacón, Business and Coneixement Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.69.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman... well, I've mentioned it a little before. We're very sensitive, very sensitive to the situation of the students. Just knowing that I would occupy this council I took very good care of, apart from the social sensitivities that a person may have, of reading reports like that of the Bofill Foundation, as well as some articles Being a university student today, which implies... In soc very and very conscious. We are also aware of the reptes that universities hold in order to position themselves at the global level and to face the reptes of knowledge, which, I repeat, at the international level we also have. Of all this sensitivity we are very and very conscious, but we will have to manage it, and we will have to manage it with resources. We'll do folds, we'll discuss folds, because it's not just about asking for cuts. We have to see where we're going with this extra finance, I'd say. So we also need to provide universities with sufficient resources so that they can carry out some of the investment plans for the teacher's regularization plans, etc., but we will end up talking about resources. We'll have to find ourselves talking about management, and that's what I'm counting on you to work folds. Work folds in which we stop putting pieces, and talk about a system..., a national pact for stable research universities, a stable framework for all these challenges that we will face. But sensibility, knowledge, the need that obviously, therefore, act progressively in the reduction of taxes, we have it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.70.0	Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.71.0	Yes; miri, in 2012, the decree Wert, applauded for the Catalan government, opened a wide fanship over the price of university degrees. So, the head of universities, who is sitting here, Mr. Antoni Castellà, who is a deputy in this chamber, decided that Catalonia..., that the Catalan university would have the most caring university degrees from all over the State, and the highest in all Europe. The economic crisis managed by the government of the best was against the universities. There was a breakdown of funding to universities, which has made the Catalan university under the state and European middle school in public investment in universities, but it has also encouraged the precariousness of the faculty – two of every five teachers now hold a one-year contract and cover less than EUR 500 per month. And there was also a 67_per_cent increase in university fees. A student who today..., a student who today wants to enroll in a Catalan university knows that he will pay more or less a median of 2,100_€ per year. There have been six years, six years of that fateful decision, and six years that the governments of the Generality have changed this bad policy; a bad policy that has caused many students to not be able to access these higher studies or to mortgage for years to be able to pay them. Therefore, now is the time to improve university policy, to reduce this 30_per_cent, which is the compromise of this Parliament of university taxes, and to improve university funding. We believe that Catalonia deserves a debate on the country's universities and that resources are being used for these universities, because they are authentic centres of knowledge and not just titers. We want this debate to do the public institutions, because if we don't, we will either be donated or imposed. Counselor, there is a new society that has suffered, in the first person, exhaustion of the system and it is up to us, and it forces us to build a new era; a new era where we can discuss what is the model of university we want for our country. We believe that university is the pillar of progress that can be built at this new time. And I would appreciate it if today we could get out with the compromise that came into this Parliament to lower the price of the materials and to be able to start this new era with this pillar of the progress that university is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.72.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.73.0	Totally fine. We totally agree with what we want. I said before... execute... [[For technical reasons, a few words of the Council's intervention were not recorded.]] And create the national pact for universities and research. This is structural reform. And I said that I wanted to make her agree, that we would make her agree, but I also said that we need to analyse resources. Conceptually they might agree, it's just that I'd miss it. So little sensitivity predicts we have? But we're talking about resources. We're talking about resources too, how we generate them. We're talking about what system we want to equip for these universities. In all this we will have to lower and we will have to lower the detail, because all we have to do is say that, obviously, we all agree that we would like lower university taxes, higher funding, but we will have to look for resources to do it and we will have to look for which system we have to, as I said, adapt. Apart from that, and we are very concerned, as I said, to give an example, which exits we are now giving to some requests from the new industry, for example, 4.0 we have at the university? How do we equip the professionals needed for these new professions that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.74.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.75.0	...and now they don't exist. They're future challenges they're facing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.76.0	Once the questions to the Government are finished, let's go to the questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the renewal of members of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[317-00003/12]] The first question, the formula the lady Natialia Sánchez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.77.0	Good morning. Good morning, President. Given the urgent need for renewal of the Board of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, could you guarantee that this renewal will not be the result of a match agreement and, therefore, the result of a fall split?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.78.0	President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.79.0	President. Member, I can assure you that this Parliament will indeed discuss and address this issue as it has always done. And so, obviously, this will be discussed among all of us and approved, as it could not be... among all the parliamentary groups. [[The president gives the word to Natalia Sánchez Dipp.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.80.0	Well, president, I don't think you've made it clear or guaranteed that this renewal can be made or not, whether it will be the result of an agreement between the government parties. In fact, what I am asking you concretely is whether the renewal of the government council is done for two thirds of the chamber, thus ensuring the division of the governance of the country's public media. And so, if this renewal takes into account the demands coming from far away from the workers and workers of the Audiovisual Media Corporation, that is to form part of this governance with proposals that have already been put on the table. So, I insist, it's not a matter of debate and approval, huh? , fruit of agreement between the parties of Government, but what we ask is that it is possible to approve the fruit of an agreement that has the support of the two thirds of the chamber, as at least, and, therefore, that we advance towards an independent, professional and shared governance with the workers and workers of the audiovisual media. Therefore, I understand that with your answer you have not made our doubt clear to us. [[The President gives the word to the President of the Generality.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.81.0	I refer to the current legislation, and we will follow the procedures that have been followed so far. If we go to a more substantive issue, which seems to me to be the one who is also calling for the question, as to guarantee this neutrality, impartiality, involvement of the workers in the management and model, I can say that, naturally, the will of this Government is precisely this. The will of this government is that the professionals, in all spheres – and you were now putting on television, the public media, we could also talk about the movements... –, they are in charge of pushing the professionalism, independence and transparency forward, so their different spheres of action. So, what more would we like than models like Anglo-Saxons? This is where we should go. When we also say, like government policy, that we put people in the centre of our policies, we also want these people to have access to the most plural, democratic and critical media we can have. And, therefore, this government will age because this is possible, through the election of its members, through the control action that can be done, and naturally answer their questions. But this is the philosophy of foundations that this government has. I think this is the interesting debate, and not the formalities on how we will choose certain representatives, which are perfectly delimited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.82.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the creation of a dialog table in Catalonia and how to approach the dialog in Catalonia and with the Government of the State]] [[317-00004/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr Xavier Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.83.0	Good morning, Mr. President. When last week we met you and I, I made him a proposal, a proposal to unravel the situation we were living in, which was the articulation of a table for the dialect in Catalonia. In fact, the government spokesman, Mrs. Artadi, said that she saw it with good eyes, if I don't recall it badly, and I would like to ask you how you think that at this new stage we are opening, a new stage marked for the exit of 155, but also for the formation of a new government in the State, should face both the dialogue with the government of the State and the internal dialogue in Catalonia. [[The President gives the word to the President of the Generality.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.84.0	Member, actually, this was one of the themes of our conversation, but it wasn't just a topic that came out of our conversation: it was precisely a very central topic in all the conversations that we could have with the different groups that came to the Palau de la Generalitat, this need for dialogue not only with the Government of the State, but also internally. In this sense, I also seem particularly interested in the meeting that I held with the unions, which I was asked to reactivate that permanent agreement, huh? I think that this is a need for the Catalan society to share, and therefore, not only from a political table, I think that also with the unions, I think that the initiative also at the time of the President of the Parliament, therefore, posed on the table... We have at these moments... the Catalan society is demanding all of us to talk, to talk, and I welcome its proposal. [[The president gives the word to Xavier Domènech Sampere.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.85.0	Thank you for the answer, but I think we should do more. Basically because you will take responsibility for representing the entire people of Catalonia in the beginning of this dialogue with the Government of the State. And you will not only assume this responsibility: collectively, in this Parliament, we should assume this responsibility for the internal and the dialogue with the Government of the State. A dialog that makes us all stronger and stronger, a dialog that allows us to recover bilaterality, a dialog that effectively allows us to talk about you in the State. And I think, modestly, that you can only talk about yourself in the State if you talk about everyone, not just the government or the majority of Parliament. And, therefore, I believe that an organization should be set up in the same Parliament of Catalonia; it is to say, not just a platform, another platform, some troubadours, some meetings, but an organization in the same Parliament of Catalonia, formed both for the combination of political forces of this chamber – all the combination of political forces of this chamber – as for all those entities that have signified themselves in the proposal, with different positions in relation to the conflict, with different and different positions in relation to the conflict, and also with exit proposals. I believe that only by taking on this collective responsibility in this Parliament and that you also take on this proposal as President of the Government of Catalonia can we speak of a real dialogue both internally and externally. On the other hand, what we are experiencing is one more exercise of constant debates that we are reproducing in this Parliament in symbolic episodes, episodes of different nature, and we do not face how we are to unlock the situation and what proposal you have each to unlock the current and future situation. And I left 'em a recommendation on the day, today, by Don Quixote. Cervantes also said: "Trust in time, which usually gives a sweet way out to bitter difficulties. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.86.0	Thank you, Congressman. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.87.0	Yeah, I think we'll talk about Don Quixote some other time, today. If we come to the conclusion that this agreement, this group, helps us all to keep this debate, for my band delighted to participate. Somehow, I understand that these debates are the debates that the Catalonian Parliament has to do in itself. That is why we are here, because among all, in plenary sessions, in our committees, we have this capacity to debate. But if we believe that this group is more concrete, then, perhaps, it will not remain for us. Also respects the external debate that we have with the State, the State is not only the Government of the State, the State wants to say many things. And the State also wants to say, therefore, the parliamentary groups that there are in the Congress. I am very happy to be able to meet Mr. Pablo Iglesias, who will come to Barcelona, and I think it will be a very profitable meeting. For us, everything that can be bridged with the State, and especially with the Republicans of the State, therefore, for us is very interesting, because it helps us to explain our Catalan project as well and to hear better its project for Spain. From this point of view, open, therefore, to this initiative. Let's talk, let's get this straight, they understand that Parliament should do a lot of this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.88.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on institutional initiatives for internal consensus]] [[317-00002/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr. Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.89.0	Thank you, President. President, without leaving the register of the company Xavier Domènech, we risk, in the end, that among all of us we will do everything, and I would like to focus, if I may, on his responsibility as President. And, therefore, we are talking these days a lot about the relationship between the Government of the Generality and the Government of Spain, about this negotiation between Catalan institutions and Spanish institutions, but, from our point of view, people of the effort we must make internally. We feel with concern demonstrations on the part of the Government of Catalonia on the return to a unilateral path, which we consider to have, had and could continue to have unabated costs, in any case. We believe that it is another path that I can take, but it is a path that requires a broad consensus in this chamber, a minimum consensus of two thirds, of ninety Members of this chamber, if we want to make changes to our institutional system. And that is why, President, I would like to address you and ask you – to congratulate you on the initiative to re-establish parliamentary groups as a first step towards preparing this dialogue with the State – if, from the point of view of the necessary internal consensus, you are willing to undertake institutional initiatives as President in this direction. [[The president gives the word to the president to the generality.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.90.0	Mr President, I also thank him, so that somehow we broke a cold, distant relationship, a relationship to which he had brought us the application of 155, right? I think that the virtue of the meetings that we held in the Palau de la Généralita, in a way, show this word that we so much like to say, the "capteniment of this government in the sense of offering this more extended so as to be able to talk about everything with everyone. I repeat, insistently, that it is not just dialog, but, I think, in my opinion, that it is dialog take risks. If it's not hard to think... The other day a company told me: "It's that what we have to imagine in this room, for example, here in Parliament, is that we have a great elephant. It is here that there is a great elephant, that we do not see, or that we do not want to see, that it is the elephant of the right of self-determination. The great question of Catalonia is this. Jo, at the meeting I will have with Mr. Pedro Sánchez, naturally I will have to talk to him about how we resolve the right to self-determination in Catalonia. That's the question. Why don't we keep talking? It's just that I'd miss it. But it is that we have a project, a project that pulls out of the self-determination referendum of October 1, a reference that recognizes the political value of the declaration of independence of October 27, and a project that aims, in a democratic and peaceful way, to reach the Catalan Republic, to make it effective. This is our project. I understand that there are other projects on the table; for example, the Economy Circle project, which seemed to me – and I expressed it to the entrepreneur – a brave project, because at least they put a project on the table. What you're asking me and I'm allowing me to answer now, and then I won't have time, I..., but it's to say: what's the PSOE project? Who is the project that the Spanish socialists have to solve this question? That's my question too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.91.0	Mr. Iceta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.92.0	President, you may, if I may, abuse to know that I will answer it. [[Rialles.]] But I'd like to say a few things very quickly. One. You say the big elephant is the right of self-determination. Allow me to disagree: the great elephant is if two thirds of this chamber are in agreement on something to move forward. That's the... [[Greetings.]] Second question I wanted to tell you. You hang on to October 1st... as a generator of a democratic mandate. We don't give him that value. And it's that we give more, respectfully, to you, to the institution and to all the Catalans, particularly to which they participated: a majority in favour of independence, not October 1, not to the 2017 elections, not to 2015, not to the 9 November 2014 consultation. Therefore, we say to him: the great elephant, indeed, that two thirds of this chamber is in agreement on where to advance with better self-government and more finance. And you're telling me, what's our full route? So end up with a combined reform of the Constitution and the Statute that may subtly refer to the people. [[Greetings. The President gives the word to the President of the Generality.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.93.0	Perfect. So we already have another proposal on the table, if that's it. Let's see what, in concrete terms, the detail is. This is a proposal; we have the proposal of the Catalan Republic; the Cercle d'Economia is putting another proposal on the table. Well, these are the proposals that we are debating, it is that this country needs to debate these proposals! I agree that we are doing this debate. And I follow it insisting: the day I get the arguments on behalf of those who want to continue to Spain, solid arguments and, in my opinion...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.94.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.95.0	... – yes – strong as I can share this position, so we'll talk about it. But, I mean... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.96.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generality how to focus the dialogue with the Government of the State and what to expect]] [[317-00006/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.97.0	Thank you very much, President. Our question is clear, it's simple, and it will allow him to finish the question, probably, that Mr. Iceta was doing; it's: how does the dialog focus and what does it expect, from this dialogue with the State, and how does the meeting with Pedro Sánchez prepare? And here he'll let us make our contribution. We have to be the kings of the dial; that's what Oriol Junqueras once gave us. How many times have we heard him talk about the need to always talk to everyone, and talk to those who least want to listen to us? How many times have we asked from this chamber to resolve this conflict with dial, with a table in the front? How many? Thousands. Now we have the table. We do not have the feeling that we are still in conditions, that it is an opportunity to resolve the conflict in dialogue; but we have the table, and we have to be. We must be able to denounce the repression by looking at the State in the eyes; to denounce its violence, but also the retaliation of rights and freedoms that amplify democracy; to tell the State that it is already well that the ultra-righteous camp free for our streets. We have to be because we always win at the polls, and their answer cannot be violence, if it is still considered a democratic state. We must be because we are a massive, transversal movement that grows and that will continue to grow, and that will not give up, and that will not be rendered unthankful of aggressions and unthankful of threats. We have to be because democracy always wins, and this time it will win again. We have to be because ours is a project of paul and urns, of civics and of votes, a political project that we can defend everywhere, a project designed to improve everyone's life. Because today's republic is the only way to make a freer, more netting and a tighter society. It's the path that marks the 1st of October and the way it guides us every day. Because, if anyone has to lower their heads, I'm sure we don't have to be ourselves, our institutions, or the people who defended the polls before the violence. Because where we have put citizen mobilization, electoral programs, parliamentary victories and ballot boxes, the State has put threats, rape and repression there. Today, men of pau, men of dialog, are unjustly imprisoned, and they must not give up anything, speak of everything, but not give up anything...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.98.0	Mr. Sabrià, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.99.0	...because, if we did, we'd give up his fight, too. [[The President gives the word to the President of the Generality.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.100.0	[[The President of the Generalitat began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ... that's a question – that's a question. You see, I can't almost add to it any more, in the sense that I fully share it, it couldn't be any other way, that reflection. But maybe I can help explain to the chamber, too, the point at which we find ourselves in negotiations with the President of the Spanish Government to hold the meeting and how we want to focus it. As you know, after a few inter-channels, therefore, a few messages, Mr. Pedro Sánchez came into contact with me to bring forward what could have been this joint meeting. We decided, and in this sense I agreed, that we both didn't want a photo meeting, a meeting that you only serve to take a picture of. And from this point of view, we agreed to have two teams to negotiate what might be the content of this meeting: as you know, on behalf of the Spanish Government, Minister Meritxell Batet, on behalf of the Catalan Government, Constellera Artadi, who are advancing – who are advancing – and we already have a three-day proposal, from the beginning of July, so that we can have this meeting, right? And we're moving forward on the contents, too. But it's obvious that we're going to this meeting, first, with the will that there's a second and a third meeting. To me, that seems like a very important message. We want to be here not just to get together. When I was also talking to Deputy Xavier Domènech, I think that this dialect if instead of making it conjunctural the structural fessim – that is what normally happens in any civilised country, that is debating things, if it's talking, politics makes..., it's talking about politics – so, for us, that's the way we think we should go. Therefore, we do not see that this happens only for a meeting with the Spanish Government. We want to hold many meetings with the Spanish Government in order to negotiate the elephant, if I may, Mr. Miquel Iceta. I mean, we need to talk about a lot of things. It is possible and reasonable to think that in a first meeting the Spanish Government will expose its legitimate starting point, and we will expose our starting point. Does that have to stop us from talking? Can this stop us from getting to some other type of agreement? No, we'll keep getting together and keep trying to find the glider. I, I insist, feel questioned for Catalan society to seek it in a frantic manner, this agreement. And, therefore, it will not remain for us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.101.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the king's visit to Catalonia]] [[317-00005/12]] It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.102.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable President Torra, in the first place, let 'em know that if we were to live in a normal state of law, such as lime, would not close or ask this question to you, but would close him to the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Jordi Sánchez, who is unjustly in prison. Our parliamentary group will never fail to denounce the fact, if necessary, that the reality, the normality of Catalonia is that the repression continues, despite, indeed, a change of government in the Spanish State. The repression we see with our political prisoners: in the Jordi Turull or Josep Rull, in Junqueras, in Forn, in Romeva, the Bassa, the Forcadell – President Forcadell – in Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Cuixart. Also with the political exiles we have: President Puigdemont, Clara Ponsatí, Lluís Puig, Meritxell Serrat, Marta Rovira, Anna Gabriel, Toni Comín. The reality of the repression that we also live mayors persecuted for the prosecution, masters, mechanics, artists, musicians, you will function of the Generalitat de Catalunya. The reality is that this repression does not spoil the hard crisis, the hard aluminosis of the Spanish State, the hard state crisis in the Spanish State; a repression of the State against Catalonia, against democracy, which was well-off, which was authorized by the Spanish king on October 3rd, corejando y corejando l'« a pósos. The result of this repression, Spain and the king can no longer go for the world giving lessons of democracy, because it is no longer credible. And that's why we ask him, since he announced that he wants to come to Catalonia, what is the capture of the president and the government in the king's visit to Catalonia. This king who abdicated from the Catalans on October 3rd, renouncing to make the constitutional role that surrounds him, and are the least valued institution for all Catalans and Catalans, the least valued, where 60_percent of Catalans lay a zero: a zero to the king and a zero to the monarchy. No gesture, no apology, since the 3rd of October: only the use of force, more pressure, more exile, more repression. In Catalonia it is clear that there is discomfort with the monarch, a discomfort that we will not forget, and then broke the 3rd of October. That the Catalans are like subjects and that they call us a fix. We, together for Catalonia, just want to say that the 1st of October we fought for our rights and our freedoms and that they are never neutral defending freedom of expression...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.103.0	Mr. Batet, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.104.0	...the civil and political rights of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[The President gives the word to the President of the Generality.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.105.0	Deputy and Companions – and I am addressing the Republican majority of Parliament – I think that, indeed, the arrival of the king, seems to be this divender, in Catalonia, demands a country response from this country. Why more than the anecdotal episode of a coming now, so, this day, actually, what is structural, what is actually going on is the situation that you perfectly describe what is going on in this country, all the facts that have happened in this country since September, with exiles, with political prisoners, with indiscriminate repression, that actually many mayors are patenting, isn't it? Okay. From all this we have not listened to a word of the king, as if you did not pass anything. As if in this country you're not going through anything, are you? And above all, the king of October 3rd, with a speech that many, many that we listened to live, so we understood that the king of Spain was no longer at that time, at that very moment, the king of many Catalans. From this point of view, too, I know, to you and to the chamber, that this morning, with President Mas, President Puigdemont and myself, we have sent a letter to the king, to the Royal House, explaining precisely this, what is happening in this country. And it can't be that there's no king's pronouncement on this question. It cannot be that the king did not'marry to the people of Catalonia, to all Catalans, explaining, recognizing, commenting, expressing what happened—what happened—because the king of Spain, on October 3, made a speech like that. Sometimes she's a manifesto, so no one, right? I think, in this chamber, no one can imagine that Mr. Cameron has sent police to stun Scottish voters in the referendum. I don't think anyone could have imagined that, huh? So I don't think anyone could have imagined that the Queen of England ever made a speech like the King of Spain did, huh? And, therefore, we ask you in this letter, to the king, what reflections – what reflections – that you have in mind what is happening in Catalonia. And I want, this late, that I will also inaugurate the pavilion with which the Government of Catalonia contributes to the Olympic games..., I also think insist on this speech. We want all the fate of the world to the tarragonins and sportsmen who will participate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.106.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.107.0	...in the Mediterranean Games, but the king... the king has to talk.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.108.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on how to deal with the social fracture]] [[317-00001/12]] It is now the turn, to ask your question, of Mr Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.109.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Torra, the last monitoring session that took place in this Parliament was on 6 September last year, just before you violated the rights of millions of Catalans. And the worst part is that they were in the lighthouse. The worst part is they weren't even serious. But what was not of lighthouse is the social fracture that you have generated. And my question is very clear, Mr Torra: how do you, as President of the Generalitat, think to work to reverse the social fracture we have in our land? Thank you. [[The President gives the word to the President of the Generality.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.110.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. From the start, inviting her to come to the Palau de la Generalitat. [[Greetings.]] That was my offer. And he knew me hard, because it was that all the groups from the chamber came, and he knew me hard because you weren't exactly the one who came, just for the voters you represent. Because I also want to explain to their voters, through you, what we think. That's why I learned especially hard that the only group in the chamber that we didn't come to talk about, that you didn't come in, I think, in this general climate that we're working..., that it's difficult, because we're coming from where we came from, but we're working with an intention to lower this chasm. We're doing it. And the only group – the only group – of the chamber that will not see us, that will not see the President of the Generality, to the Palau of the Generality, Generality of all, are precisely you. [[The president gives the word to Inés Arrimadas García.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.111.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Will you give me lessons in dialogue when you have just said that you do not even want to coincide with the king in a public act? You to me? [[Greetings.]] But, Mr. Torra... who asks the king to apologize and you have not apologized for anything! But are you going to give lessons in dialogue? And as far as my voters are concerned, I know what you think of my voters, Mr Torra, and you know all of Europe and all of Catalonia. I say to him – he doesn't answer the question – how do you feel about the social conflict we have in Catalonia? You deny it. Only those who only look at half Catalonia, can deny the conflict between Catalans. Because you only see the Catalans wearing a yellow lace. What are you going to try to cover it up, ignore it as your supremacist articles? I say to you: you have fractured society because you have broken the democratic framework that protected us all. Because you have replaced symbols of all, by symbols that exclude millions of Catalans in the Generalitat, Mr. Torra. You distinguish between Catalans and Spaniards who live in Catalonia. You have broken something that was cohesive, which was coexistence in Catalonia. And you declare a person not grateful to the party that has declared... that has won the elections, to the head of state. You said "bridges with the state and it turns out you don't want to see the head of state. Do you see the incongruity, Mr. Torra? Is it believed that you will always be forgiven? I say to you..., we are so concerned about the social fracture that we have called for in this Parliament for a specific full to regain coexistence, with three proposals, Mr Torra, very easy: to respect the framework of coexistence – no one has to give up his ideas, but to deploy them illegally – second, to condemn all the violence – take advantage of this minute and a half that remains for him to do what his adviser has not done, please, that is to condemn the violence of the CoR that prevented an act to Cervantes... [[Greetings.]] We strongly condemn any aggression suffered by anyone who already carries a yellow link, whether it is an independent media... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, we did. You, and I'll bet whatever you want, that you're going to be unable to condemn the violence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.112.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.113.0	...of the CoR. Do it, think about it, because it is up to you to live together in Catalonia. [[Greetings. The President gives the word to the President of the Generality.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.114.0	Congresswoman... there was one... the councilwoman said, there was a beautiful picture in this debate and in Parliament, which is the picture of all of you with a copy of El Quijote de la Mancha. And, as the counselor said, I hope everyone read it, I'll give it to you for sure. Jo... it was one of my young lady's great readings. I with El Quijote enjoyed, enjoyed with few books. I consider the Quixote almost as symbolic as carrying the groceries, because the best of Cervantes is also an expression of freedom. I remember a little too all his history, his trajectory. Remember what you say... what you say, too, Mr Cervantes when he gets up to Barcelona Don Quixote, huh? , « Courtesy file, truth? And here's the counselor who... And you say to me: "Condemn, condemn. I condemn any act of violence, but I condemn you that we have political prisoners! [[Greetings.]] I've condemned political prisoners! I condemn our exiles! We're condemned to have exiles, because this part, too, of the elephant in this room. So that we do not solve the issue of the freedom of our companies and friends, colleagues, honest and honorable politicians who are in prison, as we see in all European countries... In all European countries it will result that no one who is accused will be extradited, in their own right. And then what will happen to Spain's justice? How can you justify Spain's justice when it will turn out that Europe will indeed have done justice and, in change, not Spain? I condemn...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.115.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.116.0	And I agree that we're still talking about this, naturally.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.117.0	Once the control session is over, we pass to the next point of the order of the day, which are the interrogations. [[He asked the Government about political and social consensus around the great themes of the country]] [[300-00001/12]] And let's start with the question to the government about political and social consensus around the great themes of the country, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The presentation is made by Mrs. Eva Granados. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, ask them if they have to get out of the hemicicle to do it in silence, quickly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.118.0	Thank you, President. President, councillors, deputies and deputies, is the first inquiry after new months, is the first of the legislature. Many things have happened to our home, also to the rest of Spain in these last months and, especially, in the last weeks. This time we do not want to talk about the dialogue – which was very much discussed at the control session – needed between the two governments – President Torra was speaking about it, too, the president of my parliamentary group – but we want to talk about and focus the first question on the demand for consensus-building in Catalonia and the necessary political and social consensus on the important issues of the country, because we believe that there has been a great deal of effort in Catalonia and among the Catalans. What happened? In these moments, we have passed the time of gestures. You already carry a few governments, you've already met your executive council, today we've had the first control session... we want to talk about institutional normality, even though there are some parliamentary groups that don't want to place you in this chamber. And what we say to them is: "You have power. And we ask ourselves: "Do they have the power to do what? What do we want to do with the execution board? Now it's management time. And we, in this inquiry, want to ask them what they think they're doing and what they think they're doing. Not for a few days, the Economic Circle held a session where the different parliamentary groups were present. I was in that session and I came out with a little decedent, because we still had the feeling that we don't even share the diagnosis of our country's situation. And, of course, the first one we'd like to know is: between you, who wears the singing voice, who wins? We need to be clear between you. Because, depending on the press wheels, depending on the statements, depending on the counselor or the counselor who intervened, so, they talk about disobedience, they talk about dialog, and it's not exactly the same. The same President Torra in this chamber has not yet made clear whether he intends to respect the law or not. We know..., the president of my group, Miquel Iceta, said a moment ago: "There is no mandate, there is no republic. President Puigdemont said on October 26th: "We have nothing, we have no structures of state, we do not have the Mosses, we have no economic and no mediator. The late Member also said: "We are not independent because there has not been a majority of Catalans who have declared themselves in favour of independence. And maybe the place in this case we can put it, ex-adviser Ponsatí put it, when he said, "We played poker and went "headlight". Therefore, as we have seen, not on our part but on your part, what we would like to know is what happens to the organs that say they want to organize: what happens to the assembly of elects, what happens to the council of the Republic; what does it exist, does it not exist? It's a supplantation for us. And we're also worried that you're in the government with a gesticulation race. We saw him at the control session yesterday. The Group of Republics and the Group of Joints for Catalonia asked the same question to the same Government and the same Councillor. I don't know if there's two governments in a government. And we have also seen in the governance structure that Mr. Aragones and Mrs. Artadi have the same figure replicated, to one committee and the other office, but in the end we are speaking exactly of the same. I don't know if we have two governments in a government that's called provisional. We need, with this inquiry, to clarify it to us, to clarify between you, why, if you have the power, the power why? Because we have the feeling that either they don't know where they're going, or they don't know how to do it, or they're fooling us with a statement yes, a statement no. And we'd like to know which of the two is the good, the good statement, whether it's the dialog or whether it's the disobedience. Because what seems to us... president, I don't have the clock here and I don't know how long I've been and everything. I don't know. I'm saying to organize my intervention, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.119.0	It's my mark. I pray to the servants if they can solve it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.120.0	Yeah? Okay. No, no, I'm saying that because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.121.0	In any case, I'll let you know; not pateixi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.122.0	...I did, but... okay. He told Mr. Aragones that he is the one who will answer my question: we have the feeling..., and the truth is that we want it to be dissolved in the fronts, that there are no fronts, and now what we see is that we may be buried between those who want, those who want to find the solution, and those who see or want to live in the conflict. And here he did sweep, huh? , this hemicicle. Today we saw it at the control session; it looks like those who want to live from the confrontation, who are in the independence and non-independence banner, and those who want to solve it. We would be pleased if this community of interests that we see between Ciutadans and Junts for Catalonia were not a majority in our country, and that there was a large majority of those who want to find a solution to the conflict, to the problem, because now there seems to be a bloc, and here we could have the people of Ciutadans, the people of Junts for Catalonia and the people of Puigdemont, who have come to feed this supposed period of exceptionality, and we want to eat those who want to help solve the problem. We have said this many times: we see the mistakes and we look at not making the same ones. Unilaterality does not take place and outside the law there has only been a national and social retreat. Let's not win those who think that against Rajoy is living better, huh? Let's look at the Mirall, we don't like what we see, we see the mistakes. And, please, as if they don't like what they see at the Mirall – us, neither – leave the rear-view mirror. They're carrying the whole control session, they're carrying everything we've got on the warrant, and it looks like the parliamentary and government initiatives are also putting down the rearview mirror. We invite you to look forward, to look at finding a solution, to overcome this phase of Spain's irreformable: Spain has changed, Spain has a government that wants to dialogue, and you are still anchored in that Spain that did not want to be reformed. Look, we've wasted time; we've been in this country for five years. Each one says that for different reasons, but we have a country on the waiting list. Even in consensual themes. I relied on the motions and the laws that we had agreed in this Parliament, and that the government, during the time when I could throw things away, did not throw them away. We ask you to recover those laws that we have agreed on, to recover those fears that we all agreed on, and to put a thread to the needle, to govern, to manage. And we are talking about such important issues as the protection of minors, gender-based violence, professional training, schools in Bressol... – today, at the control session we have talked about, about schools in Bressol, also about university fees – the guaranteed income of citizens... We have many fears that we have agreed, that this Parliament has spoken in favour of it unanimously, and that you, when you were in the Government, did not pull them forward. So, in this country that we have on the waiting list, and even in those unanimous agreements, please..., that the school dividers who are still in barracks, that the fifteen-thousand citizens who expect a guaranteed income from citizenship, those citizens who wait for ninety-five days to get to see 'without a specialist doctor, or that one_of_each_three dependents that at the joint of Spain is dependent– it is – it is Catalan..., so that all these people see in this government that begins to walk that which must find solutions for each of their problems. Miquel Iceta said it in his intervention and we will not tire of saying it: you have a parliamentary majority, you do not have a social majority. In fact, Mr. Torra is president for a vote. And I think it will be good that I remember every time I want to speak on behalf of all the Catalans that he was president only for a vote and that, therefore, when you make every statement you think about the conjunction of Catalonia and not just in this very small parliamentary majority, that it is not a social majority. And, therefore, we're in place of you representing all of us when you speak for all of us. Here in our Parliament we have established a democratic armor because important laws cannot be reformed with a small majority. And we're talking about the law of two thirds. At these times, we ask you that those majorities that are needed to make an electoral reform, to reform the Statute, to play the Council of Statutory Guarantees, the Union of Accounts or the Union of Heavyweights, which are these qualified majorities, make them serve the great themes of the country, which is not the law and which is not the essential majority. And, therefore, we ask them to respect the standards, for this democratic armor that we have established here in our Parliament, and that I do not go back to what happened during this late. There has been much talk of the elephant in this session of control; there have been various similes of the elephant. I think the one that broke late, which was very..., and President Torra says it's the right of self-determination, and I think the elephant is also the breach of trust between us, of consensus that had worked in this country since the eighties, and that you broke that late last, it will cost more to pull them forward. Today I'm doing it with three levels of proposal... – I'm only thirty_seconds; I'm going to do it on the second side – but we're talking about different levels. It is obvious that we will not solve this breach of confidence that was produced late; we will need time, we will need a lot of dialogue and a lot of reciprocity between ourselves and a lot of trust, and we will work the distension to look back at each other with confidence. But they do have work to do as the government does, they do have work to work from consensus on country issues, on important issues, on socio-economic issues, on more institutional issues, and obviously...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.123.0	Mrs. Eva Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.124.0	... also in themes of self-government model. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.125.0	Reply by the Vice President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.126.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Councillors, Councillors, Mrs Granados, we will continue to look at the rear-view mirror while there are exiled and engaged companies. The condition for leaving the rear-view mirror is the freedom and free return of people who cannot be insured in this room for a political issue. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, to us more than anyone we would like to leave this rearview mirror, we would like to stop looking at it, because it obviously causes personal pain, but it also causes social pain, because it has an affect on feelings, on identifications from a very important part of our society. And the clearest example is that who should be answering this question would be Vice President Junqueras and not myself. You said: "It's been a while. Yeah, it's been eight months from 155. And this government isn't repairing the effects. Councillor Chakir El Homrani has been doing this, bringing up to date, for example, a whole series of contracts in the field of the third sector that had been paralyzed. Or he has also set himself in the field of Teaching, in the field of Salvation, in the field of Culture, in the field of Territories, in many spheres of government. So we're catching up. Because 155... when you were talking about gestures, 155 wasn't a gesture, it was a tangible reality that illegitimately changed a government, that forced the call for elections, that didn't produce the expected result that they were looking for some of its drivers, because there were certain electoral results. You ask: "What is the object of this government? So the object of this government is the Catalan Republic. It is the project that we defend and that we defend in agreement with our electoral program, of the two political formations that have given light to this government, and which, moreover, was explained in President Torra's investiture speech. Obviously, how do we want to do that? So we want to do it with a great deal of consensus. And we want to do it with a large majority. And we want to do so, the changes that must be made in the realm of sovereignty, of which are the jurisdictions in a country, which can be done, as is the case in advanced democracies: how is it done or how can it be done in Quebec respect Canada or Scotland respect the United Kingdom. Certainly, when states have come to defend their legitimacy in the polls, in these two cases they have won. Therefore, perhaps, even so, for those who defend the continuity of Catalonia in the Spanish State would not be a bad way out. In any case, this government is a single you see, this government has a single project, which is the project that unites us, which is the project to pull this project forward, this Republican project. You said, "He didn't send you for this. My question is: "Is there a mandate for the legitimacy of the Spanish Constitution in Catalonia now? Because, if we look at who the election results are, we look at who the responses of the Catalan society have been in many areas, also in the electoral field in the last elections, the parties defending the constitutional status of Catalonia are a minority. In fact, we have a statue, which is that of 2010, which has not been referred to by the people of Catalonia; a statue that came out of this chamber with the support of more than two thirds. Therefore, we are the first to defend the consensus that is enjoined in Catalonia, but we also ask everyone to be the first to defend them outside, because we cannot ask for consensus in Catalonia, and when they are later to defend themselves in front of the State, there are some who are the first to come down from the consensus, because then I want to say that someone has two rights of successful veto. And I think that, if we have to be honest in the necessary dialog that we need to open from now on, if we have to be honest in the negotiating lives that are to be opened after, we can agree that, if we have to make big consensus in Catalonia, then these cannot be altered by majorities outside of Catalonia. We have to negotiate, we have to go with an open mind, and that is clear, but these consensuses cannot be altered, right? Clearly, because, for example, you refer to all laws that are pending; laws that have been approved for this chamber. I'll put in a few... that after that, it seems to me that there will be an inquiry from another group to Councilwoman Artadi, won't there? We can begin with the laws that have been approved with the vote of the Socialist Party to the Parliament of Catalonia that have been suspended by appeals of the Spanish Government to the Constitutional Court and that the current Spanish Government, of the Socialist Party, could withdraw the appeal. You can start here. And I would have the whole sense of the world that when the Socialist Party votes for the Parliament of Catalonia, it is when the Socialist Party is part of the Government of the State that it defends it. And it refers to concerns that are urgent, urgent and necessary, in Catalonia, from a long time ago: in the area of salvation, of the reduction of the waiting lists, that have been reduced, but that we are still too long to be able to reduce them to what would be reasonable; in the area of guaranteed income, that we will have to deploy it and it is a challenge, obviously, to deploy it, and in many other areas. But to do this we will need sovereignty and resources – sovereignty and resources –; that what can be decided here remains respected, and resources financed to make it possible. Now it seems that the xifra is two-thirds. I think two thirds are not necessary because a government pulls forward, if not, ask Pedro Sánchez. I would also like to think that Pedro Sánchez will not wait two-thirds to repeal the labour reform, or to change, therefore, the later pension reform he denounced, or in other things, right? So, we're the first ones who want to build consensus. We are the first to establish this Catalonian dialect, and also Catalonia with the world, and also, obviously, with the Spanish State. And we understand that the agreements on what happens here and what can happen to the state must be referendums for the citizenry. Because we're coming from where we're coming from. And we come..., and here you must hear that we are bound..., the 1st of October binds us, and, therefore, we are not going to do..., which is, where the 1st of October voted, to change it because we don't know very well what was granted in a wake. No, no, that is to say, the solutions or proposals that can be reached in relation to the sovereignty of Catalonia must be voted on by the people of Catalonia, the citizens of Catalonia. In relation to the state government's dialogue, it must be possible to talk about everything. And, therefore, the right to self-determination is not interchanable – it is not intercanviable – for better in rolling stock or for better in financing; it is not. And if anyone thinks it is, they'll be wrong, because there's going to be a latent problem that's going to exist and that sooner or later we need to be able to solve. And we understand that it has to be resolved with the vote of the citizenry, which is the way... And if this vote is large, better than better, much better, but it has to be resolved with the vote and only with the vote. We've had some announcements in the past few days, for example, haven't we? , like Mr Zapatero – yes, Mr Zapatero – who has returned, let's say, to say that we have to recover those questions from the Statute that the Constitutional Court annulled the year 2010 – to what he did not do, right? Therefore, in any case – I said the other day in an interview with the SER – "at good times, green sleeves, eh? To come, therefore, to ask what is now done what he did not do. In any case, what we believe is that there are many opposites in front of this country that need to be addressed from the dialog, from the internal dialog. In fact, that is respect for the mark of this dialect from the Parliament of Catalonia and its decisions is one of the commitments that we all would have to make in order to face it. And the government has decided to go this way and we'll have plenty of opportunities. We will have many opportunities in the different laws that we have to deploy and in the different laws that we want to carry in this room, because I believe that the backs we share independently of ideology, regardless of whose idea of Catalonia's relationship with the State that can have each, and that all are legitimate, right? Therefore, we, open to consensus, open to work with all parliamentary groups. We'd love for you to be like that. There are some groups that are not yet participating, nor that are in the converses of previous explorations; we will work because this can be changed. The rest of the groups have been involved in these early conversations... and some, despite the fact that we have found disagreement, so, in any case, it's a first step to move forward. President Torra, in the investiture debate, makes reference to the great debates of the country, which must be brought forward and which we also want with civic participation. And, therefore, it will also be an opportunity because I participate not only in the diversity that we represent in this Parliament, but also in the diversity that is expressed in the social organizations, in the civic organizations of our country. So, we're open to talking to everyone about everything. And when we do sisterhood with the state government, we ask that we can talk about everything. And when we take part in the parliamentary groups of the Parliament of Catalonia, we need to be able to talk about everything. Dialog without conditions and without waivers. We do not demand them to give up their plans; we do not ask ourselves to give up. And in any case, I will then continue with this debate, listening to its three areas of concrete proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.127.0	Thank you, Vice President. It's the turn of the line, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.128.0	Thank you. And thank you for your answer to the vice president, too. To see, what does it mean to be a republic? What do you mean? Do you mean to change the institutional architecture of our country? Because if that's what you need, you need third parties. It's that easy. Why, of course, what does it mean to be a republic? What do Republicans do, those who do prayers? It's just, of course, you didn't just hear it. I don't think your people understand, do they? I mean, we've already had a lot of debates and I still don't know. And I'm listening to Mr. Torra, I'm listening to the press wheels on the wallet, I've been listening to you now... what does it mean to be a republic? Sectoral policies, of course, mostly approve of laws, we know that. We're going to approve the vocational training, we're still waiting; we're going to approve that we're going to lower university fees, we don't see it. We are not talking about this, which also, because we want to incorporate different levels of agreement, but what does it mean to be a republic? You have come to the government, you have the majority of the parliament to make government. They say: "We want to make a republic. It's not clear to me, and I don't think it's clear to anyone exactly what they're talking about. Because either they disobey, that's what happened late in the past year, or they respect our standards of self-government and, therefore, they respect the majorities necessary to make the institutional changes that you want to promote. But they won't be the ones you want to promote. You'll have yours, the rest of the groups will have ours, and we'll have to come to terms, because that's it, politics, not generating more problems for society, not raising more society, but trying to find the lowest common denominator that generates consensus or qualified majorities needed to bring about institutional change. And since you've come to the government with an election campaign where you say things that don't depend on you, I think you're a little out of touch now with the full route to see what you're offering or what you want to offer to Catalans. And as we have voted for citizenship and it is up to us to oppose it, to clarify what kind of government we have to make opposition and what they will do, I would like to have the Vice-President of the Government come here today to address the House of Commons and the citizenry and answer the question: what does it mean to be a republic? When we change the institutional norms, the institutional architecture of our country requires a number of votes, and you have sixty-six, and from sixty-six to ninety-six there is a dialect, there is politics, there is agreement. And what I want to know is whether you are willing to do your job, which is not to break the Statute, as they did on September 6 and 7, which is not to organize an illegal referendum or a party of the citizenry, or as you would like to say, but which did not mean re at institutional level. This is what we want to clarify with this question, and we do this with a constructive attitude, we do it from the will to move forward like the country, because many things have broken down. You said, "We'll have the rear-view mirror set up while there is... We also want the courts to be as good as before, and everyone's responsibilities to be clarified. And we've said it forty times, forty times a thousand times that we don't like temporary detention; we've said it many times. But apart from that, you now have the responsibility to govern this country, and you would do well to keep this from the separation of powers, which is one of the features of the right state, and let the courts do their job, and if they think they are not respecting their rights, do all the resources from the defenses, and don't sweep institutions and don't sweep speeches. I remember an interview with Oriol Junqueras – now I don't know if it was the diary. It's – and he said clearly: "Let's separate one thing from the other. The dialog must be possible beyond the procedural situation of people who are in prison now and who are being prosecuted. Therefore, they pay attention to those who say that they are the legitimate representatives of the Government of Catalonia. Separate his work, his responsibility, and put thread to the needle with which he touches here. Because making a republic doesn't know what it is. Reforming the Statute is clear, which are the rules of the game, and need two thirds. And, look, you haven't been pulling anything. You said you downloaded the health waiting list. Do you know how much? A 0.04. This is what managed to lower the list of health care waiters as long as they ruled. And therefore, we need consensus, we need better self-government, and that is why we also need to do politics. And we also need all the sectoral policies that have been agreed upon in the past legislature to be able to move forward with this. We have the feeling – and I think the city council sees it – that the thirty-three days of Governor Torra, if we compare them to the days of Governor Sánchez, do not pass the quota test. It's obvious that the president's initiatives...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.129.0	Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.130.0	I'll leave it here, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.131.0	Mr. Vice President, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.132.0	Thank you very much, President. President, councillors, deputy... I don't know if we're talking at the same frequency. I don't think so. And so, when we come from extended positions, so it's hard to find the frequency we're talking about. And first, maybe, we need to make this approach. So, let's make an effort. You were talking about three levels of proposal. I understand you're going to be in the next seat and we won't have it now, we haven't had the opportunity yet. In any case, we'll approach the motion, I'm not convinced..., this is a matter for the parliamentary groups, but I'm convinced that the parliamentary groups that support the government, so the motion that you present it will work carefully. You insisted a lot, didn't you? , in the content of the Republican project. The Republican project that we defend is a project of rights for everyone, with institutions that are in the service of the citizenry, based on individual self-determination, so that each can pull their own life project forward and with collective self-determination, too. Then, this must be able to implement as we do... – and I explained it before – as it is in advanced democracies. And, therefore, if there is a proposal for a dialogue, a negotiation with the State that allows this recognition of the right to self-determination, this project will be able to implement how it is..., so how other political projects such as yours can be carried out. Deia, I was wondering if the Republicans were doing any good. I guess there's only a few of them in a fan. Anyway, so it's different, isn't it? I don't know what it meant – I don't know what it meant. In any case, the republican forces are diverse in confessions and in options of consciousness. And he was asking for the two thirds of... Refers to two thirds of the Statute. Yes, the problem is that the Statute, the later modification of the Statute was not done for two thirds, it was done for twelve magistrates of the TC, in 2010. And the government of the moment did nothing, the government of the state of the moment. Res– res. And now, eight years later, Mr. Zapatero comes out and says, "Look, it's what I didn't do now that we might have to do. Well, they say, "It's never late, but maybe, man, maybe this time, let's say, because a lot of things have happened. Stop going from sixty-six to ninety-six, so, willing to talk to it – to talk to it. The PSC in this very rostrum... Mr. Iceta had defended an agreed consultation. It can be a good approach – it can be a good approach. We could start here. And you're going to say that they don't petition the freedom of prisoners and exiles because there's a separation of powers in the state. So, look, we have the feeling that with respect to independence there is no separation of powers, because the president of the General Council of the Judiciary comes out and says that the ultimate reason for justice in the Spanish State is the unit of Spain, not the right state, not the rights of the citizens; the unit of the State. A president of the General Council of the Judiciary who continues, for sure. There is no separation of powers when our companies are in pre-trial detention, which is not provisional, because of a complaint—on the basis of a complaint—from a State Attorney General—that the State Attorney General is appointed by the Government, and despite the fact that he has to defend public interest, but sometimes defends only the interest of the State Government—in that he does a construction of an alleged crime of rebellion widely discussed by judges and extensively discussed in the international jurisdictions that have intervened and discussed extensively by the academic community. So, separation of powers... What kind of separation is there in this ping-pong between the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior, and the judge Llarena, to see who is responsible for the placement of prisoners in pre-trial detention, who seemed that everyone wants to get this problem out of hand? In any case, you, therefore, feel proud of the Sánchez government. Sounds perfect to us. It's logical, isn't it? He's giving it support. And he was talking about the thirty-three days of Governor Torra. In fact, it's thirty-three days, but in reality, it's a few less, because to conform the government we took a few. Mr. Sánchez did not have any problems with the government's conformation because someone, in contravention of the law, has vetoed the appointment of ministers. We've found each other. In any case, we're willing to talk about everything, we're willing to. We have so many hopes of talking about everything we ask the government of the state to talk about everything. And we'd be loving your young man, on these three levels of work he was announcing, and that we're about to meet, so we can approach him. The will is to achieve broad consensus, obviously.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.133.0	Vice President, thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government on civil and political rights]] [[300-00008/12]] The next question is about civil and political rights and it is formulated by Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.134.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, Members..., Vice-President, we ask you this question precisely about civil and political rights and, in fact, I think that, in reality, it is quite related to the previous question and to the answers that you yourself were giving. Still, let me make a little initial parentheses, if it seems to me, because... well, now too, the motion of censure is beginning at the Badalona Assembly and, as I say, from here on out, I want to give all the support to the Dolors Sabater, the mayor; to the Oriol Lladó; to the Alex Mañas, and to all the people of the Badalona government, as I can see, that they are doing to deal with the most xenophobic right there is in this country, which is Mr. García Albiol and the People's Party. So, with the least... [[applause]] Well, since we're talking about rights, since we're talking about progress, I think it was good to do it here too. That said, today is not a good day, indeed, for human rights. This morning, say so, or this..., the night before, go, see, we knew how the United States had decided, or has decided, go, to abandon the United Nations Human Rights Committee, an absolutely worrying decision, an absolutely erroneous decision, as at least from our criteria, and that is certainly bad news. And that was, of course, the same day he was giving his hand to the king of Spain – the same day. The United States abandoned the Human Rights Committee while meeting with King Philip. It is more, the same day that he is reunited with King Philip VI, the United States locked in cages the children, the children of immigrant people, who came up and created their southern border with Mexico. This is a violation of human rights, too. And that happened with the connivance and applause and with all the cheer you deserve, and I won't criticize it, a one-way visit to the United States. But it was the same day that these pictures of children and children locked in cages came to the United States. Therefore, these are not good times for human rights, surely, from the world; they are not. But it is true, therefore, that we..., and let me focus on what we are dealing with, also, that it is Catalonia, and that it is the violation of human rights in our country. And to speak of the violation of human rights in our country, of the fundamental rights, of political rights, of civil rights, we cannot do this without saying and without beginning by recalling that Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez 246 days ago are in prison; that Oriol Junqueras and Quim Forn 229 days ago are unjustly in prison; that Mr Raúl Romeva, Mr Josep Rull and Mr Dolors Bassa, Mr Jordi Turull, 121 days ago are in business; or Mrs Carme Forcadell, President of Parliament, 89. Also more than 230 are in exile President Carles Puigdemont, Meritxell Serret, Lluís Puig, Toni Comín, Marta Rovira, Anna Gabriel or Clara Ponsatí. It has also been months since accusations, investigations, prosecutions to hundreds of mayors, governors, mechanics, pallassos, artists, etc. Therefore, we cannot start talking about civil rights or political rights without doing all this. We couldn't do it. These people, some of whom, of course, are still Members of this Parliament, some of whom have not been able to sit for a day in their school, where they were put by the people of Catalonia to defend the rights and interests of the people of Catalonia, are not in Parliament and are in prison. And, therefore, this is a question that we should all have very present, and so much that someone wants to normalize it, so we will never forget political prisoners, and we will never stop until we get their freedom. And all this is done, too, based, in fact, on pacts, on very elementary conventions, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, or, if they are not so pleased with all of them, partly with the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, which also consecrate names of freedom and fundamental rights. Okay. Article 1 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights – Article 1 – says: "All peoples have right to self-determination – all peoples have right to self-determination–. By virtue of this right they freely determine their political status and also seek for their economic, social and cultural development. Well, then, the answer that we have received in this State has followed police repression; it has continued to be spent about 100_million euros to get ships, to send police, to send vans, to send all the tools and all the mechanisms of repression on the part of a people, of the citizens, of the voters who were simply at the door of a school, of a civic centre or of which they were. This has followed the response to the present day to article 1 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. But we could follow, and Article 5, in this case of the Universal Declaration, but it is repeated in all these precepts, so it says that "no one shall be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading punishment or tract. Okay. And this happens while Spain reprehenses on behalf of the European Court of Human Rights which denounces torture, which obliges the Spanish State to compensate the persons who have filed these disputes, these remedies in the European Court of Human Rights. Anys 2018, huh? There is torture – year 2018. And it violates such a basic article of the Declaration of Human Rights as this. Or, if we're talking about degrading treatment, they could also explain to us why the councillors and deputies would be shackled back for hundreds of miles, to bring them to the different prisons, when that never happens. To make scars? For revenge? So, actually, we're talking about rights, human rights, civil rights, political rights. But it doesn't just affect that. Article 19 speaks of freedom of opinion, expression; that this right, says, textually, "including that which you cannot be disturbed because of your own opinions and that of seeking and reproving and disseminating information and ideas by any means, without limits and borders. Well, we find ourselves as different rappers are, today, sentenced to prison. Not only, but also other artists, theatre actors, to insult the Church, in a confessional state, who already carry two court summonses. We have seen the case of the Evaristo, the Insurgency, the Valtònyc, which just a few weeks ago had to be exiled from the country. You really don't worry about them? Because that's not just about whether one is an independentist or not, which is also and above all, because obviously for the independentist it's a deal and for the non-independantist it's another. But it is that we are coming to the limits that who questions the monarchy, who questions the Church, who questions or thinks against a government is finding itself with condemnations..., with condemnations in prison. In Spain, a freemuse association ranquing ranquing that said it was in front of Xina and Iran, year 2017, engaging artists; in front of Xina and Iran, in the repressing ranquing of artists. But they don't know that this affects everyone? If we continue..., the following article talks about the freedom of the right has gathered. They do not need to remind you of the law that bites, that limits or works that it is possible to make ideological archives of demonstrators, that violates the right of defense or the right of security or that, even if you do not carry the ID, it can be stopped and it generates a species of impunity and limbo, so to speak, a fully folded traveler. It's that many rights are being violated, also that of participation in the Government, which is the article following the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, huh? , which says: "Everyone has the right to participate in the government of his country. All right, all right, because it's the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, except here. Because here it's called some advisors, who have all their political rights intact, and they're not allowed to be part of the government. Or here, to Mr. Jordi Turull, who presented his candidacy to be invested president of the Generalitat, that friend of the parliamentary debate takes it. That's... it's natural for us to be stunned, because it doesn't happen anywhere in the world except here in Catalonia. And that's why we today, not just for politics or not, because unfortunately this already affects a lot of other people – it affects society, it affects artists, it affects writers, it affects plays, it affects exhibitions like Arco in Madrid – so we ask, Vice President, before this very serious situation what is the government's willingness to fight and reverse, so all these effects that we are experiencing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.135.0	Thank you, Mr. Moral Gomez. Then, for the answer, the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.136.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Councillors, Members, Member of Parliament Gómez del Moral, we are certainly in a context– not only in Catalonia, but also in the State and we see it in Europe and in other areas of the world– in which the regression of those rights had taken place, that had sunk, that had consolidated, in the sphere of the right, therefore, in the free movement of persons, the rights of freedom of expression, freedom of demonstration, freedom of thought..., there are many news that they are making us see that they are going towards a regression in many of these rights. This week we have had sad examples and have not happened in our country. We have had sad examples before the announcements made to the Interior Minister of the Government of Italy, respect a hundred people of the Gypsy people – therefore, one hundred for an ethnic motive – or the announcement, yesterday, that the United States would abandon the United Nations Human Rights Council, right? Therefore, we are in a context where regression in the protection of human rights, and also of civil and political rights, is a fact. Moreover, it is produced in a context in which digitization, control through which we express to the networks, etcetera, has new instruments. And, therefore, the same way that when mass communication media were born, the same way that when mass literacy was created, they generated us right, and they had to protect themselves from the threats of these rights, now that we are in a process, too, of changing accelerated in the technological and digital sphere, also has to be done. But there are some other... that is, the contexts, the technologies are different, but what's going on has lived in other times, which is to pursue dissent, is to pursue difference and an abuse of power, isn't it? And so, in this sense, as the government stands. There are political forces or ideological sectors that bother you in this debate because obviously this debate does what it does is to bring about a reality that is occurring. And we just need to see today's plethora, where the teaching counselor has been asked about how the teaching department protects the faculty when they are accused of a hate crime for debates that have been promoted in classrooms, right? So, who you bother with this debate, so, you know, it's hard for them to hold on, because it's going to keep them up, because this government is a committed government, and we're going to put the tools that we have in our grasp for the defense of civil and political rights. That is why, in the government's decree of areas, which is the decree that distributes between the different departments the competences of each of them – it is a presidential decree, by President Quim Torra –, placed the defense of civil and political rights in the Department of Vice-President and Economy and History, because they understand that associating the Vice-President of the government with the defense of civil and political rights, therefore, gives a more transversal replete to this issue, which is a priority. For example, in this return of civil and political rights, we have, and surely what we all have in mind and what we all remember and how many we have lived in first person and how we have suffered the consequences also in first person is how the State responded to the 1st October in the form of repression and police actions that some, at the time, said were disproportionate, that they were a disaster, and they even made an inquiry to the then vice president Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría, after they withdrew, but in any case, an unfair action and that actually attacked a number of phonenal rights. And we have other examples, such as the judicialization of many aspects... of the discrepancy. This is the problem: the judicialization of the discrepancy, and how the discrepancy about how a subject can be dealt with in the classroom, without attending to the mechanisms that exist in the same educational community to solve possible problems that may be there, so this is judiciality, under the man of this hate crime that was born, which was incorporated into the criminal law to defend minorities, to defend the collectivities that, given the conditions and their situation of a democratic minority in a society, could be object of discrimination. And we see that now it serves for something else, it serves to attack dissent, it serves to attack the criticism that all public powers are under. I mean, there are things that they say to me, aren't there? Maybe I don't like them, and I don't like people, but that's not why it's a hate crime. So, I understand that one thing is political criticism, and even some criticism you can think is totally excessive, but it's not a hate crime. When this is done in some other collection, uniformed, so there has been..., abusing the presumption of truth that they are supposed to have public officials, some of them have triggered complaints that, in many cases, justice has ended up dismissing. Or the persecution of freedom of expression for crimes of opinion to artists, with letters that some do not like people – people –, some letters that I do not like people, I assure you, but I will defend the right to sing them. How can I please or not an entity that summons an act, but I will defend the right of that entity – and before it has been discussed – like everyone else, to do the acts I consider. Because freedom of expression has value when defenses respect who is thinking of something or who represents an ideological environment that you do not share. And here's when it's worth, freedom of expression; if not, it's very easy, isn't it? Therefore, actions against freedom of expression. Also open cases against governors, mayors... this week declared Mayor Argentona, for example, also on charges of this kind, right? That we are convinced that they will end up being rejected in some of the judicial institutions, but that at the moment their maintenance in time already carries a penalty, at the moment, right? Anxiety, patience for the person who suffers from it. We have also experienced, in these later months, a certain climate of impunity for certain collectivities which, beyond the political protest, which is obviously legitimate, beyond a presence of mobilization in the streets, which there has been, of different signs, and which must be respected and protected by freedom of expression... I insist, too, that a person may not like it; but in some of these cases, and concentrated in extreme right-wing collectivities, has gone from protest to violent acts. And we have, we have some. In fact, between September 8th and September 11th of last year, 139 violent incidents took place in Catalonia at the same time, with political motivation from these groups associated with the extreme right. Of these, eighty-six of these incidents, eighty-six attacks, with a total of one hundred_one victims wounded by different considerations. That's only in the last quarter of last year. We can remember, for example, a protest that ended with incidents before Catalonia Radio – which, of course, today thirty-five years ago and, therefore, we congratulate it, and that for many years more – a rape that ended, before that issue, with left-handed glass. There have been attacks in communication media that someone can associate with an ideology that neither you nor I share, and we also condemn them, and these attacks must also be pursued. Therefore, civil and political rights are a priority for this government. For this reason, as previously stated, in the decree it was, therefore, to attribute to the Vice-President of the Government the promotion of civil and political rights, and for this reason in the decree that structured the Department of the Vice-Presidentship and Economy and History is to create the Office of Civil and Political Rights, an office that, like others that exist in other countries, is to be an altar to collect violations of civil and political rights that can be produced, translated, these, in the follow-up mechanisms that exist in the international sphere, to protect civil and political rights, to convey complaints, complaints, information that can be produced, translated, these, in the follow-up mechanisms that exist in the international sphere, to the protection of the civil and political rights, to the protection of the grievances of the Greeks, to the information that can be generated in this, both in the coordination of the other parts of the Councils, to the other parts of the Government, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council, to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the Council to the And, therefore, this office must be at the service of everyone, of the defense of the civil and political rights of everyone. Now it's created, it's formally created, and so in the next few weeks we'll put it on the line, we'll name its responsible person, the responsible person and, from here on out, we hope that in the new political course we can already have this office fully rendered to give service to all of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.137.0	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. For the replica has the word Lord Gomez of Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.138.0	Thank you, President. Well, you said it, Vice President: actually, many of these things have been done to pursue dissent; that's right, isn't it? You, that I know we share a thing for Joan Fuster... that's what I was saying, right? "There are people who don't like to be spoken, written or thought of Catalan, who are the same people who don't like to be spoken, written or thought of. And this is where we take the risk, actually, like the country, right? , here's where..., in short, we can give to certain speeches that I believe are at risk of institutionalization and that, moreover, this creates a risk, say, or a violation for which it does the protection, precisely, of the fundamental rights, of the civil rights, of the political rights that we are just talking about today. Because sometimes we find that if you don't like that you teach yourself to think or that you teach yourself to be critical, then, at the moment, you have critiques of indoctrination, don't you? At my school, like at least, what I was taught was just learning to learn, right? , and learn to plant the things from another window, and learn that everything can be – effectively, with respect – questionable. But we'll find each other, won't we? When you're thinking about it, it's either guilt or you're accusing yourself of indoctrination. We find ourselves with political proposals, so, for example, if you don't like what is said to the networks, we have made political proposals that they are banning networks in exceptional situations and blocking social networks, for example, in exceptional situations and controlling digital content. Bad practice and worrying, I'd say. If they don't like the press release – for example, we've seen it in a session of control at the Congress of Deputies – then in this case the minister is asked what it might be like to not be able to control the views of the New York Times or the Financial Times, in relation to October 1st? It is to say, yes, to provoke censorship, say, to the international media if it does not like how they explain things. Even so, if they don't like the symbols that hang people free, so the main concern of Catalans is to introduce a law to ban the deep loops; this is the main problem, I understand, right? I mean, therefore, if you don't like the people, simply, pose, pinja, it's manifest, so, what you do is a legislative initiative because it's forbidden in the ways that you don't like. Even we're getting to a point where, if you don't like what the people vote for, what you're proposing is a legislative reform because the independent parties can't be in the Congress of Deputies, and that's how we fix it! – and so let's work it out. So, if you don't like what you're saying, if you don't like what you think, if you don't like what you're posing, if you don't like what you're voting for, we don't like that, that there's a parliamentary group that decides to do everything possible to prevent you from voting for what you want and can have representation, to prevent you from putting in the links you want or that the media can write what they like. Therefore, it is true that we have..., we are at risk, we say, that the violation of human rights, of civil rights, of political rights, is able to institutionalize, with some measures that, as a minimum, in my modest opinion, actually pose to me the highest risks. That is why we welcome your initiative, Vice President, and the entire government, therefore, to set up this office. I would also like to anticipate, therefore, that we are also celebrating the initiative, in this case, of the President of Parliament, to create this committee, also, to study here, in his parliamentary office, in order to be able to address in a comprehensive way all the violation of civil and political rights that we are living in. And let me finish..., as they say "the novel of the process, so look, this week I have rejected a letter from Carme Forcadell, the president; this is the novel of the process, the cards we send to the prison. And I want to share with you a phrase that you're telling me, because I think... well, it helps us to be aware of where we live. He said: "I am aware that I am in prison for defending the sovereignty of Parliament and freedom of expression, for allowing Parliament not to be censored, for complementing my duty as President and Democrat. This helps me to endure the prison, and I only hope to do so with as much dignity as possible, because the dignity of Catalonia is mine. This is the letter from the President of the Parliament. Whoever likes to normalize this situation, I think he's wrong a lot. We will not normalize it, because the violation of rights is so flagrant that we cannot allow it. And in any case, as Carmel said in this letter, "the joy of life and freedom, because freedom is the greatest treasure we have, among all. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.139.0	Thank you very much, Mr Gomez del Moral. To finish this point of the order of the day, has the word again, for the reply, the vice president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.140.0	Thank you very much. Certainly, when Joan Fuster says those words, it's because someone sometimes per language is not the language he's chasing, but it's freedom, isn't it? The freedom of thought. Sometimes the languages or the way we have to express ourselves is the excuse, right? This does not mean that those who speak one language or another are the only ones who have freedom of thought, does not mean that; but when a language has been chased to say certain things, so these also have, obviously, and must be respected. In effect, the Office of Civil Rights and Policies will promote the defence of these rights, obviously by conducting awareness campaigns, establishing mechanisms for their defence, for their promotion; follow-up on whether or not they are vulnerable to these rights and information about their compliment before the institutional bodies they seek. It will do so in coordination, obviously, with other institutions, organizations, bodies and security forces, which are responsible for the defence, also, of this right in the field of its competitions. And, therefore, we are determined to push it forward; we will do so, as I said, in the next few weeks, by structuring it, putting it on the march, naming the responsible people and, therefore, that it is a reality. In fact, it exists in other democracies. In some states it is, therefore, associated with the figure of the Ombudsman; in others it is associated, apart from the figure of the Ombudsman, it is also associated with an office or an area of the Government. And, therefore, in this case we understand that we need to strengthen it and, as I say, in coordination with those who are already working in this area, from their perspective. We've had, in the past few days, nine manifestations of these violations, haven't we? And sometimes he wanted to be equal, didn't he? : it's the same wearing a symbol that you can disagree with..., it seems that it's the same that someone wears a symbol that you can disagree with that if you get it. No, no, I mean, it's very different. We don't equip it, we don't banalize it. I mean, there's no justification. And, daily, so we can all see symbols to ideological manifestations that are not yours and, listen to me, you have to respect them, it can't be any other way. In fact, as I said before, freedom of expression, if it's a right, is why: not for what you like, because then it's not freedom of expression, it's a coincidence of expression. He made reference, the deputy, to a whole series of changes to the laws, too. And what's at stake here is political pluralism, isn't it? Sometimes, he joins the defense of a certain option with that... so... no? , a certain option..., the legal mark is that of this option and, therefore, the legal mark is the topall for political discussion. No, no, the political debate is one, and from here, if there are majorities, it's changing the legal mark, isn't it? And in this case, then, we see how we don't know very well..., well, with an ideological excuse, with a clearly ideological motivation, so we want to put certain topalls, as announced this week, for the presence of representation in the General Courts, which would be an exhibition of..., obviously, political pluralism. In fact, in democracies it does not only matter the rule of majority, which is obviously important, but also political pluralism, and that is what, from my point of view, from the point of view of the Government also, is what, in the framework of the State many times, therefore, has not been respected. In any case, I agree with the Member that we need to create the better of this mechanism. We will put it in motion; obviously we will give consideration to Parliament, as it cannot be in any other way, and we understand that it will be an office for the civil and political rights of everyone; not against one another, but the civil and political rights of everyone. Because when you attack the civil and political rights of the person who disagrees with you ideologically, you are also attacking yours, and that, therefore, is very clear to this government and therefore we will push this mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.141.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[Question to the Government on the legislation of the Parliament annulled and suspended by the Constitutional Court]] [[300-00007/12]] Complete this point of the order of the day, let's move to the fourth point, which is the inquiry to the Government on the regulation of the Parliament annulled and suspended for the Constitutional Court, presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. In order to expose the inquiry, Mr Vidal Aragonese has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.142.0	MPs, parliamentary workers and parliamentary workers, we're having a very literary morning, a lot of human rights, and we'll be allowed by the vice president who does a previa that doesn't have a direct relationship with the inquiry we're going to do. We could sort out some reference to the Quixote, but it would put us in a reality of seeing the CUP as a quixotesque organization, and it's not really what we want to be independent, for that matter. And we opt for another work that is more suitable, although perhaps not very well known, from Catalan literature, such as The Square of the Camèlies; the street of camels, of intense, painful relations and of great patience. Unfortunately, reality is always a lot worse than fiction. To the town of Cornellà de Llobrega we have a street, which is the Camèlies street, where the past you said there was-there was a see, the Jordi, which was taken life. And it's a street where, in the last six years, there have been three people who have decided to take their lives. This does not form part, in any case, of chance, nor so much of unbearable fate. It forms part of a class reality – the fact that the barre de Sant Ildefons is working class and the people there earn their lives or gain their lives come their working strength, not in any other way – and a lack of effective alternatives before the denunciations. So the 135s can have a different view of causes and responsibility, but what we should have very clear, the 135s, is that it can depend on us that there is a factual reality for which we avoid claims that there is no housing alternative; this can be at our hands. The question relates, in any case, to something that would keep the relationship, but which is different from what we have referred to so far: 9 November 2015, the Resolution 1/XI is approved in the Parliament of Catalonia, and this..., I will try not to interpret it and I will proceed to its literal reading of the agreement if. The agreement if established– in fact, establishes for us– : « The Parliament of Catalonia, as the head of the sovereign and as the expression of power constitute, reiterates that this chamber and the process of democratic disconnection of the Spanish State will not be subject to the decisions of the institutions of the Spanish State, in particular of the Constitutional Court, which considers that there is no legitimacy and competence arising from the June 2010 judgment on the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, voted for the people in reference, among other judgments. Since then, November 2015, the reality we have had is that the Constitutional Court has annulled thirty-nine Catalan regulations; indeed, to be more stringent, it has annulled thirty-nine Catalan regulations, different articles. And, for another band, he's suspended a total of 12 regulations. It is to say that the Kingdom of Spain, or rather its organ of constitutional interpretation, has decided, without judgment, that it does not have material effect until twelve regulations. Before moving on to what is our political position with regard to how we value the action that has been taken by the Junts Government in time for the Yes, and in the current JuntsxCat and Esquerra Government, with regard to this resolution, we did think that it was necessary to take a rest on the content of this regulation. Obviously, in two minutes we cannot talk about all the contents that have been suspected or cancelled, but we have simply chosen some small reference to those norms that have two things to manifest: not only the practically non-existent legislative capacity that we have in this Parliament, but also those norms that come to give decent and more bearable life responses for the popular classes have been absolutely obscured by the Constitutional Court. Begin. You're annihilating the laws. From the embrace of immigrant people, a tool so necessary that it fixed a question of minims, that migrants and migrants could preferably know the common language and cohesion, the català. The Constitutional Court annuls it. Effective equality law between men and women. Two very simple questions, such as whether there is a concrete preventive action before the work placement, or, for another band, these equality plans with the intervention of the representatives and representatives of the workers also have concrete actions. The Constitutional Court says that this... understands that it is basic labour law and, therefore, that there is no competence of the Government of Catalonia. With fiscal, administrative and financial measures, where fracking is limited directly, beyond the trinxat we have in the territory, the Constitutional Court considers that it cannot be limited. But not only have social laws been annulled, but those laws that allow us to develop social policies. We are obviously talking about recaptancy and redistribution laws: Decree Law 5/2012 or Law 14/2012, on deposits in banking entities, or Law 12/2014, on nitrogen oxide emissions, imposed for nuclear power. If we skip from the laws annulled to the laws suspected, we would find, first of all, Law 24/2014 and 4/2016, which refer to the emergence in housing and energy poverty and to the risk of residential exclusion, laws that were at the forefront of the not-of-Europe conjunction, up to and including the world, that allow a _second opportunity for families, that accrue disclaimers, that guarantee reallocation, that forced social logging, and that gave to the Administration tools to make mandatory termination of thousands of empty floors. All this absolutely suspicious, that even last week we even allowed ourselves to save lives, human lives, lives, everything we have. Certainly, in relation to this matter, and we're already moving to the councillor. We have eyes and eyes to the Principality that there are red tape coming from an electrical company telling them to change their accountant or that they are left without sub-administration. This is happening now, here, in this country. I also read about climate change, where the Constitutional Court has this obsession with not even allowing a permit per fracking is needed. The universalization law of healthcare, with something as simple as that any person, regardless of his or her administrative situation, is to say, whether or not he or she has work permits or residence permits, he or she has healthcare assistance. This is the reality we've had in the next stage. In fact, even if there is a law that is not suspected, but which has come to be suspected, which is Law 5/2017, from taxes on large commercial establishments, from states in tourist establishments, from radio-tox elements or from sugary beaks and carbon dioxide emissions. To say that it is still technically not suspicious, but there has already been the performance of the Constitutional Court that we assume that unfortunately it will also end with its suspension, and that at the same time it would also allow us to have a much bigger threesome. They always come up with the answer that the box is the box and that there is what there is. And when we go to make regulations that allow the box to be enlarged, plus a redistributive act, what the Constitutional Court says is that it cancels or suspends it. In view of the nullified legislation, between November 2015 and the present, neither the government of Junts per el Si, nor the current government of JuntsxCat and Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya have acted to compliment Resolution 1/XI, in which in a very clear way it is committed to the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia and not to the inquisitive action of the Constitutional Court. Madam Counselor of the Presidency, we will be pleased to know how you reverse this tendency and begin to complete the mandate of that resolution, that what it means in a very clear way, obviously, is that this Parliament of Catalonia exercises its sovereignty and that we do not let it be the Constitutional Court that determines our policies. Or say it in another way, as this Parliament of Catalonia does effective policies for the popular classes and does not let it be the Constitutional Court that maintained the privileges of the status quo. Or even with another perspective. To be very clear that the process of building the republic will go through giving answers to the popular classes and that this will be the way through which we have an opportunity to build the republic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.143.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Aragonese. To answer this question, the Presidency Counsellor, Mrs Elsa Artadi, will speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.144.0	Well, thank you. Thank you, Congressman, I would also like to reiterate on behalf of the Government of the Generality the compromise with the eradication of male violence. Only two days ago, we had to regret, in this case in Badalona – and before the President of the Parliament too, in an ugly way – a new case of male violence. In this case between the pair, the second of this year, but we must add another case in the family, another case at the social level. We have to put an end to this, among all of us. The absolute compromise by the Government of Catalonia. That said, many thanks, Mr. Vidal, for your inquiry. I think... I'm sure we wouldn't agree on some things later, but mostly I'd say yes. We have a serious problem in Catalonia with the Constitutional Court. A court that would have to be an interpreter, arbiter, if you want, of how to apply the Constitution, but that instead, especially in the later years but already, has been a recent tool – a recent tool – not only of competitions but also of will. Because, in the end, the laws we approve in the Parliament of Catalonia, which we approve all political parties in the Parliament of Catalonia, what they do is show the type of country, the type of society, as we want our welfare state. And when it comes to the state of the welfare of the Spanish government, then he intervened. He intervened and said, "Look, this is what you have decided the legitimate representatives of the people of Catalonia that we do not like, because we want another model of society, and we carry it. Plus... - and I don't think I'm going into this. Moreover, the later Governor of the PP converts the Constitutional Court with a jurisdictional court, which even the Venice Commission has to alert them, or is dedicated to interpreting our..., laws, the Rules of our Parliament, putting in danger the rights of passive and active suffrage of our deputies. Before he remembered it, the president of the government also had suspensive power. That's to say, it's not just waiting for the sentence, it's just saying, "Listen to me, I don't like it anymore, and I don't like it right now. That is to say, from the Spanish Execution to the Catalan Legislature, what can and cannot be done. Before you remembered the number of laws..., ninety-seven remedies of unconstitutionality against Catalan laws since the 79's, and, moreover, accelerating in the later years: divided from October 2015. What's the government's commitment to the generality? Firmly committed to what they also approved by the parliamentary groups supporting the Government, together with you, in Resolution 3/XII of this legislature, which urged to legislate and govern so as to restore the laws and social and environmental decrees, which also made reference, approved by the chamber of the last legislature, of the Constitutional Court. And here there is everything, and before there is also reference: there are laws that are suspected, that in this case, the way..., this has to be done on a case-by-case basis, is to update and re-approve, that in some cases we have done it more or less successfully, depending on the subject, or find alternate mechanisms. There are challenged laws; challenged laws, which many are laws that have been approved here with the support of the PSC. The easiest way to..., all these contested laws, which now the Government of the Generality has regained its defence capacity..., is to urge the Spanish Government to withdraw these resources. Quickly. These resources are withdrawn and we no longer have the suspension of these laws. However, it is clear that the Government of the Generality will continue to defend these laws, which, many of them, are social policies, and so you remembered, and I think we all share that it is a motor of change republic. The motor of republical change through the empowerment of the citizenry. Change engine through promoting freedom and equality, these two basic principles that should be to society and that are not there. Then, between this and this, and one of the first tasks entrusted to us by the President of the Generality and what we have talked about in the sessions of the Execution, the few that we have held so far, is to make an act of revision..., which has been all the legislation suspected, suspected cautiously or pending judgment, and the different departments..., and now you know it hard because I will actually speak by the mouth of the other advisors..., what is to be done. One case that seems to us to be of the highest order, is the universalization of healthcare. Here, the Spanish government, through a real decree law decides to limit the rights to persons living in Catalan territories, because they decide to do so, too, for the Spanish territory. In his time, already, Councillor Boi Ruiz donated..., it was they gave instructions from the CatHello that the health centers that integrate the Siscat continue without guaranteeing health coverage. Then, they turn it into an instruction, 8/2015, which, obviously, ends in administered contentions, could not be in any other way. To protect him, Councillor Comín makes the law of universalization of sanitation, which is voted with the support of the PSC, not the PP and Ciutadans, which seems to disagree, and ends with the Constitutional. A Constitutional, again, where Mr Rajoy decides that he does not like the health policies in Catalonia, as is the protection that we decide on the most vulnerable. Why, what's your attitude, Madrid? It's not an attitude of "like at least you have to guarantee all this, that, look, you could have a sense, that everyone, like at least, does this. But it's the other way around. Say, as much as you can guarantee that. And if you, with your resources, with the popular will given to you through the Parliament of Catalonia, want to go further... no, you can't do that, because that generates inequality. This is the rationality of the institutions of the Spanish State. The Vergés Councillor, who I thank who, moreover, from here..., at this moment has already expressed it, on these days that we are already exercising as Councillors, to continue to guarantee this coverage, on the margin that the law is suspected or not, that, recently, obviously, they have suspected it. She has already made this compromise, we also hope – because it would be the fastest way, let's say – that Minister Montón, who seems to want to repeal the royal decree, actually does so. Other areas. We were talking about the climate change law. The law of climate change, which was a pioneer, and which included different forms. It also included, apart from fracking, that we deeply regret that these restrictions are being imposed... Now it seems that the Constitutional is positioning for one place or for the other to different territories. It also included the CO2 tax, a tax that was finalist for a few funds, the climate fund, the wealth of nature, which also seems to me to have been working with you, which records the vehicles according to their contamination, with the principle of who pays for it. This one is now producing the rise... From the Tributes, from the Catalonian Tax Agency, they are working intensely on its implementation, which will not be easy, because the one that you can't drop by the polls, the one that you can't drop by the Constitutional Court, you fall by the practical way, and a hundred vehicles that you have to finish, there are problems to be able to do it. Social Protection Agency, which we have here the adviser responsible for the deployment of the compliment of the law... The suspension has also risen, except in three precepts, which, in reality, we are already exercising in other areas. International relations, the possibility to apply quotas of taxes and a precept that says: "Competences acquired in the future will also be able to assume them through the agency. All this seems that it cannot be done, but, in change, from the department, it is working on the elaboration of the statues of this agency so that it can work again and give it a compliment. Effective equality of men and women, the same case. There's a state policy, when you want to go further, that... you can't do that because it's forbidden. It is forbidden to work in the prevention of sexual attachment in the workplace, it is forbidden to require that there be equality plans, which should be there. Aspects of union responsibility. From the ICD and in collaboration with the different departments, it is working, with the Board of Labor Relations of Catalonia. He's going further, working with the unions. We must see whether, through, and in this we are already working, also, of the Catalan distinction of business excellence, which is to be put into effect, given that the law marks it, in Article 35, and that we are working with Councilwoman Chacón, and, given that it also speaks of measures taken in sexual settlement, plans of equality, etc., if by this way, that it is not the obligation, that it should be, however, at least, to look at businesses, that is to say, which businesses are doing well, and which consumers can vote for, with the few, which went and which did not, also try to work in this direction. The audiovisual tax, which we also have here is the Culture Councillor. A tax that did not have any unconstitutionality, that did not share any of the elements of VAT, that was in line with all European regulations, is decided that it cannot fall because, obviously, this certainly affects businesses, and, on the other hand, the small consumer and the funds to be used for cultural promotion are not so important. There were two problems at the time. First, because money had been collected and it was put up for cultural promotion. Here has already made a great effort, both the ICEC and the Department of Economy to be able to give it an answer, and what is being done from the Department of Culture is working on a new bill that gives it an answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.145.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.146.0	And now, when I touch the next comeback, I continue with the theme of housing, which seems to me that, besides, it's the warmest thing we have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.147.0	It's the turn of Mr. Vidal Aragonès's line.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.148.0	It has not given me time, before, also, to make a deep greeting to which until now it was to the mayor of the city of Badalona, and, for what it is to be, or surely will be from today, the application of 155, or the 155 ruling in this city, and with a majority of government that has already characterized itself sufficiently on what it means, in this plethora of today, for other Members and other Members. On the specific question we raise in this inquiry. You say to us: "compromise firmly. But the firm compromise of the councillor's intervention was only seen in the dialectic land, in the formal land. You make a characterization, in fact, very coincidental of what we believe about the limitation that the Constitutional Court means. In fact, it's not just the Constitutional Court, it's the conjunction of the Spanish state apparatus. But at the same time, they do not tell us how they will make this resolution effective, in a very clear way: before the collision between the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia and the resolutions of the Constitutional Court, we will complete the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia. And, therefore, we will not give a compliment to the resolutions of the Constitutional Court. Talked about the study. Look, the study is very good that they do it, it's a small question, but the study, the UPC, we've already done it. A subgroup of four deputies and four deputies and the technical office have already done the study, with all the laws; twelve pages, of all the laws suspected, of all the laws annulled, of the articles, of the material significance meaning these articles, and, therefore, if you, today, have already proposed a government should not be in the stage of study but in the stage of material reality, of how effective fans these regulations are. Finally, he refers to some specific law, such as that of the Social Protection Agency. The Social Protection Agency is a purely autonomous body. They are so bogus, since the Constitutional Court, that they are capable of partially leaving uneffected an organization that is purely autonomous, that there is nothing, to the regulation of the agency, that it can be understood as delimiting what is the minimum competence over the matter that an autonomous community can have. We ask them: how will the laws that are already nullified become effective? Some more than two years ago. And we ask them again: are they still respecting what the resolutions of the Constitutional Court mean, which means, in fact, that we are not completing that declaration of sovereignty? And then, we talked about the nullified laws, but we should also talk about the suspended laws. After the first meeting of the Government, you have a press round, and they say: "The execution will present allegations and demand the release of the precautionary suspension of the suspended laws. This is very good, but it only means that the Government of the Generality will not settle in the proceedings opened before the Constitutional Court. It is simply a mere procedural position made by the Government of the Generality, as it cannot be in any other way, that the Government, before a law approved by the same Government or approved by the Parliament of Catalonia, therefore, participates in this judicial procedure, but it is a mere procedural position. We, while the only one you raise is this reality of romance in court proceedings, what we tell them is that the Constitutional Court leaves the popular classes without rights. And we ask them: what will they do before these suspensions? And it seems to us from some statement that we have read the last few weeks, where you argue that the way might be to negotiate with the Spanish government. On this, with all due respect, we want to convey the position of the Constituent CUP. There are two things. The first: the problem is not of competition; please, it is of sovereignty. And the second: that will imply a failure of Resolution 1/XI. There's nothing to negotiate, among other things because they don't want to negotiate, which is what we all who are independent are very clear about. And lastly, we are not before a discussion of legality, but a discussion of legitimacy. And we tell them: if they want to continue respecting the legality of the Kingdom of Spain, the Kingdom of Spain, in its international name, or if, for another band, they want to start already to make effective social policies that allow, and this is the way, the construction of the Catalan Republic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.149.0	Thank you, Mr Aragones. It's back now to the reply of Constellera Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.150.0	Well, thank you. Now I don't remember what... you said it was a misappropriation... something that the Constitution and the Spanish Government did... oh, yes, when you were talking about the Social Protection Agency. By way of fact, that of the Cybersecurity Agency, which now turns out to be unconstitutional, on a subject that is not regulated to the Constitution, cybersecurity, donated that is of 78. So, ja..., fi. I think we agree on a few things, not the others. Well, I think allegations, and that's what we understand from the government, are part of this battle. What you don't feel, it seems to us, is directly to give up submitting allegations, with a judge..., for a judicial decision that is going to produce..., that sometimes we win, not the majority, but others do. And, therefore, to give up the different instruments, we will not. Nor will we give up, in the case that it is clear that we are trying to make new regulations, as it is in the case that I was running out of time, which I was explaining, of the case of culture, or of finding the mechanisms to make the application of the law, which is obviously much easier when it comes to us, such as the case of sanitation, that we are the same people who provide the service, than when it comes to third parties. And, therefore, when it comes to third parties to find other mechanisms, but I, the one I tried to explain the other time is, in different cases..., and the problem is that, of course, the fan of suspicious laws, pending sentences, etcetera, is so wide that it doesn't give us time to go in there. I, however, do invite you to continue working together, because... not only you, but also the different groups of the chamber that supported you, because these laws did not approve them together for the Yes and CUP, which some did, but there were also the common ones, in most laws, and there was the PSC, in the vast majority of laws. And, therefore, I invite all the forces to decide what we do with these laws, how do we get them through? It is that this is not a violation of the Government of the Generality's will, it is a violation, it is an invasion of the powers of the Constitutional Court in the Parliament of Catalonia. And here we all have to play. And if you go much further than the departments or have another job done and we have to share it, let's do it! Because the important thing..., if here it is decided, in this chamber, everyone, that it is people's right protectionists, this is what must be done – all of us – and the first ones. Oh, my God, this is absolute. The clearest case is, too, in the area of habitation. In the field of housing..., 24/2015, which, in addition to an initiative, an ILP, which later took over the network, from here the Parliament, the groups that at that time were doing a great job. Obviously, it's the courts. President Puigdemont makes a summit immediately afterwards to build a new law, before the suspected articles, involving the municipalist entities, the Barcelona Assembly, the same promoters; which, moreover, is collected in the Conseil de l'Advocacia de Catalunya to have an endorsement in order to be able to pull forward. It's approved for unanimity here – it's approved for unanimity. But what does the Spanish government decide? That this will put the funding system at risk. It is to say that when in the Parliament of Catalonia all – all, not just some groups or others, but all – decide to protect people, the Spanish government decides to protect the banks. A very similar case – and in this I took part – is that before, too, when you talked about the subject of taxes..., it was that that I suffered a lot, because many of these taxes, when I was at the Directorate General of Taxes..., was a constant barrier; that some have ended up in Europe – which you had commented on « great commercial establishments» – and there we have won, as always, there we have won again. Then what happened to the empty floor tax? It was an imposition that had all the meaning, which, in principle, had been tried to regulate at the state level, through the Law of Local Hisends, and that they decided that... well, that after it was no longer developed on a regular basis, it was not the case that some municipalities made the complement in the IBI, to increase the taxes of the empty floors. He was able to recapture for two years and, obviously, then suspended. Then, what does the Government of the Generality do? In addition to looking for other mechanisms... – and the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability I believe that all three of you have an inquiry from your group, from the common ones, and therefore will extend more – but there..., and I agree with you that the barriers that have been put in place not to make a mandatory reallocation, not to force mediation, to eliminate the possibility of expropriation, this – this – causes us not to get to all cases. And it's a mistake– and it's a mistake–, it's not too much. What do we do? We try to increase..., we increase the housing stock: 28,000 floors, 636 us last year; benefits to the payment of the loggers; 1,152 housings through the months of emergence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.151.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.152.0	Okay. I repeat: it is not enough, it cannot be that there are cases like what you reported before Cornellà when we have twelve thousand empty floors in Catalonia on habitability conditions. Therefore, we continue to move forward, and, obviously, the whole compromise on the part of the Government of the Generality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.153.0	All right. After this inquiry, the session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much. [[The session is suspended at one in the middle and four minutes and is resumed at three in the late and three minutes. He chairs the President of the Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who are assisted by the Secretaries General and the late Mercè Arderiu and Usart.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.154.0	Let us resume the session with the fifth item of the agenda, which is the question to the Government on housing policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. [[Asking the Government about housing policies]] [[300-00002/12]] To explain the question, for a period of two minutes, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.155.0	Hello, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Today is my question to the House of Commons, I'm one of the new Members, and that's where you went preparing it a few days and when the time comes: you have to start just for which you didn't want to start. So I can't help but start by talking about what just happened to Badalona, about which the motion of censure presented by the Socialist Party of Catalonia finally came to fruition, with the support of García Albiol's Popular Party. At the length of my intervention I was going to make some references to the possibilities of agreement that there might be in Madrid now with the government of Mr Sánchez, but I must start – and that is not an inquiry to the government strictly – asking who will be the Socialist Party that we will find in Madrid: the one that offers to return to the universal health guaranteed, acull the Aquarius, or the one that opens the door for entering the government of Badalona the PP of the xenophob García Albiol, deputy of this chamber? [[Greetings.]] So here's a recon to Dolors Sabater, Guanyem Badalona in Comú, Initiative and Left Republican of Catalonia, because they're a very hard year ahead of them, to defend the street what they couldn't do from the joint, because they got them out. As I said, it is our first question as a parliamentary group of the commons. I understand that it is not a surprise that I am going about housing, about the emergence of housing, that the commons are coming, if you please, from time to time, from political responsibilities, political actions, political measures and, above all, resources and assumptions to the Government of the Government of Catalonia to deal with the housing emergence that Catalonia sees. We need a national pact, a country pact to guarantee the right to housing, and that goes on to start thinking about structural policies of public housing, not to put pieces, which is what is being announced at the moment, pieces. There must be a plan of economic activity with resources, with money, not only with loans, but with money in effect, at the disposal of the investment in public housing. We'll make a trip again in the past – we'll take a few –, we'll talk again about Mrs. Artadi, who unfortunately isn't here, because I love how laugh when we are... But the truth is that it's hard to talk about violation of social rights without talking about the time of Mr. But's government, Mr. Mas-Colell and Mrs. Artadi. We'll start with a return to the past, but we'll end with proposals and win, because that's why we're here, too, to make proposals. It has already been mentioned this morning: the intervention is also conditioned by the death in Cornell last week: Jordi, electrician, seen from Cornellà, is a new face of the deaths caused by the denunciations, the retailing and the lack of institutional policy to guarantee the right to housing in Catalonia. The Rose, a while ago, to Reus, posed face to face the victims of the poor energy. He also named Gas Natural, the company that cut off his sub-administration, despite the report of vulnerability, of social rights, that had made the assembly. In this case the same: we also had reports of the vulnerability of the families, and in this case it was Blackstone, with the People's Bank, who completely ignored them, pulled the lawsuit forward and, once again, the judicial services ignored the social rights reports and ordered the execution of the charges. A denunciation, in this case, by default of the logger, where the Mossos intervened. That is why the first demand is that the Government of the Government of Catalonia – and neither is the Councilwoman – that intervention protocols should be updated in cases of denunciation, that they should be updated because they are from 2013 and that we cannot follow with intervention protocols that do not take into account the situations of emergence and vulnerability. In this we, as the government of Catalonia and as the parliament, are also responsible, we ask them to act now. It is one more case of the crisis that Catalonia has seen: 95,000 denunciations since 2008, more than 13,300 only in 2017; every day thirty-six Catalan families lose their homes, two thirds of them are so that they cannot pay for the logger. We live in a deboned Catalonia, and that's why we don't count the invisible denominations, of the people who leave their homes before they finish the contract and make it out, because they can't pay increases of 30 and 40 percent in the logger. More than 45_percent of the families in the metropolitan area spend half of their resources, of their tickets, to pay for housing. This is not sustainable, it creates anxiety, and it needs to be remedied. So the question is: is there any parliamentary force in this Parliament that does not agree with this diagnosis, with this emergency crisis? With the crisis that started with the real estate bubble a few years ago, when the mortgages subprime, when the credits to zero interest, now with the bottle of the logger..., and they see that they feel things again, don't they? , on TV, on the floor: "Oh, but if the logger comes out a lot because... Arrive 't, buy, if it comes out more! Or we'll hear again: "It's because there's little supply, more needs to be built, more needs to be made, because it's the only way to solve the price increase and lack of demand. It sounds, doesn't it? That's what we've heard. Then it will come to: "Well, don't worry, if we give you the 90, the 100_per_cent of what you ask for! And besides, if you want to reform, we'll give it to you too. If the ladies' money is given! If you don't pay any interest! Oh, you don't have stable work? And that the quota is much more than 50 percent of your family tickets? It doesn't matter that you want someone, that your parents want you, that they've been able to buy a piss from the studios for the rest of their lives. All in all, the banks will never take their piss, to your parents, because we know each other, we're friends. That's what we heard, too. And then you see when the time is very fast and you feel it: "We live above our possibilities. So, yes, we're living a new journey in the past, we're living a new prey of people's hair, because it's putting forward the interests of a market and treating habitat as a product of the market, as a product that has to give benefits to businesses. No, it's a right of all people living in Catalonia, the rest of the state and the world. It's a right, it's a fundamental right, and as it is to be protected, it's not to trade. This is why we felt that we were talking about the sources of the real estate sectors that qualified the measure, approved for the Barcelona Assembly, of allocating 30_percent of all the promotions, great real estate promotions, to social housing, which was "a populist barbassada; it is a populist barbassada pose ahead of the interests and the rights of the people of the market negotiations. So the question is, what does the Government of the Government of Catalonia intend to do to deal with this emergency situation? What do the deputies and deputies of this chamber think to do, too? Well, the people of the People's Party already know, what they think they've done, they've already shown it in Madrid, and the cities, too, because they've been doing it for every detail they've done and not to advance in social policies. But to the rest of the groups I also ask a direct question: what do you think you are doing? Yes, yes, assumptions, details, law of denunciation... that you didn't approve? Yes, they did. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, surely; that's why they did them outside the government, to the PP and to you... [[Widow's remorse.]] The forces... but, well, here's an inquiry into the government of this country, huh? The warning. [[Some applause.]] If we are guided by what the Government of the Government of Catalonia has done in the past few years, let's go read, we are prepared, just like the families of Catalonia. Because, while in Catalonia there were nine thousand families, the Generalitat detailed the housing assumption in a 60_per_cent. So one thinks: "No, no, that now that there is a difficult emergence we intervene quickly, resources... No, the other way around: austerity, detail, "now there is no way, "we have problems... And that's because the law of austerity and the law of detail prevailed. We need to see if they continue to prevail, and, I repeat, there are figures in the current government who make us talk about this, make us talk about Mrs. Artadi again, the current Councillor of the Presidency. We'll keep talking about it until it's reversed in the 1,500_million euros of retails they've made. And while we're making a memo to remember how Convergence and Union – which is what PDECAT said before – voted in favour of 2009 of the Law of Express Denunciations... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, it's that we don't have to go back; it's that we're where we are because we come from so far back, we come from the moon. Emergence crises in habitat do not begin two years ago, they begin a long time ago. And now you see when they tell me that the Constitutional blames it, right? We have already spoken this morning: "The Constitution is going through us and suspicious of all laws. And it's true, there's a part of it that's right, like 24/2015, it's true: that the PP government used this law was clearly an exhibition of its own to go against the reversal and defense of social rights. But it's that we have other laws, we have other laws that are not recurred and that can be used to deal with them! We have the Law of the Right in the habitation of 2007, that they do not use it for nothing and that you plan to put many on the benches. When are they gonna do it? Because we have judgments of the High Court of Justice that tell the assemblies that who is to put the fines is the Generality. So they do. What are you waiting for? Many, if they are not available to social loguers, the floors that carry more than two years of emptiness. All this can also be done with a good part of the Llei 24/2015, which remains in force, as for example it is not possible to call anyone if there is no housing alternative for this person. Or the Law 4/2016, which is only resorted to in eight articles, from which the suspension of three has risen. Oh, come on, there's a lot to do. I stop using "everything's over, everything's suspicious, because it's not true; a little rigor, too. They have legislation to act and to make a plan against the emergence to habitat. They're showing the joints, that they're the ones who've been giving their faces all this time, when the generality has been out of shape, out of profile, to say the least, or looking at other places and other priorities. There is a law and there are resources, they have to be put forward. I have a lot of proposals, I keep them for the second intervention, but I do want to finish, quite clearly, by making a call, asking them to summon this national pact of state, that we all work to face the emergence with a plan of shock, but also in the medium and long term. And if they do, because if they want to, people of the common will find us. Yes, they will find us demanding and knowledgeable. Don't give us anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.156.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. To answer the question, the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.157.0	Mr President, honourable Member, good afternoon to all of you. While I have spoken before answering an oral question from Mr Toni Morral, I would like to take advantage of this first intervention from the Faristol to express the honor it represents for me to address this chamber, the Parliament of Catalonia, which is the head of the people's sovereignty, as a member of the Government. And I am very aware of the exceptional situation we are living in, a situation which, therefore, involves political prisoners and exiles, and I would particularly like to point out Councillor Rull, which I consider to be a continuation of his government action. I wanted to take advantage of this first intervention because you are aware of this awareness of the exceptional situation. I'm also a freshman, huh? , it's my first question, and I like that it's a question about habitating. The department that encapsulates it, the Department of Territory and Sustainability, has recovered, we could say, the skills on housing, and we want this recovery of skills, therefore, to be a tip of the policies that we develop from this department. And so, since the government, one of the first press rounds we did, the vice president and myself, also referred to housing policies. And, therefore, to note that the first oral question put by the Junts Group for Catalonia was precisely about housing policies. Therefore, we give them the highest priority. I noticed it at this morning's control session: this is a priority of the government, and also of the department that encapsulates it, to continue working on social housing policies. And in this sense the action of the Government of the Generality in the matter of social housing is intended to base, in order to guide on three strategic objectives, three very basic objectives, to which we have also added a derivative of one of which I will now mention. The first objective, as it cannot otherwise be, is precisely the increase in the social housing stock. We have what we have, the fruit of the policies accumulated over many years, but it's an insufficient sense of doubt, and we need to make hands and hands to increase it. The sectoral territorial housing plan, which is pending approval, is the guide for promoting and financing the construction of protected housing, increasing tanteig and retraction operations, mobilising the unemployed private park. Therefore, the first major objective: to increase the public park; we would say that it is the great or the main ingredient of the reception that we have as a government in order to be able to face the problem of housing. A complex recipe, however, I insist, this increment of the public park is, to be sure, its main ingredient. The second great guide to this will to build housing policies is precisely the concertation with the private sector to increase this park, huh? The increase of the public park is financing or promotion of its own; the second point is the concertation with the private sector. For us it is very important, therefore, to agree with the sector on a whole set of measures, subsidies, subsidies, which also allows for an increase in the housing stock. The third would be the answer before the emergence of denunciations. You have thought about it, this is a drama we have with the country, this last year thirty-thousand, and we have to respond; we have to respond with the strengthening of public mechanisms for the award of housing to people and families in a situation of residential exclusion. And the fourth objective I gave them, the derivative of this last point – it survived, huh? , but we give it a lot of importance; in fact, these last few days I have not been talking about strength there where I have been, in the communication media and there where I have been able to do it – that is all you have to see with a Catalan LAU, a law of Catalan urban leases; that, in fact, this is a mandate we have as a government, derived from a law approved by this Parliament in an additional provision – if I have not remembered it, the sisena – of Law 4/16. It was said that in a definite time frame we had to actually draft and process a law of Catalan urban leases, with the objective, among others..., a clear objective, which is to increase, to increase the minimum period of leases, which we have now fixed in three years. A period that at the time was fixed, the result of a modification of the Spanish LAU, so as to increase the number of habitats that pass to the lloger park, but now, at a time of high prices, therefore, it is clearly insufficient, because to finish the contract of three years, if you are at a high time, logically, the property that you do – unless you have a very high social sensitivity – is to finish that contract to increase the price. And, therefore, it is an invisible denunciation. It is, indeed, an issue that we must resolve. And the will is, effectively, to have a Catalan LAU. Therefore, I also ask myself whether we can agree..., you asked for consent in certain matters, this is one: to be able to agree to be able to process this Catalan LAU with as much celerity as possible. We have other lives, too, so that we can focus very quickly on this matter, which is reforming the Spanish LAU. And, therefore, to be able to reform the Spanish LAU – which this would obviously do through the Congress of Deputies – we could do through the parliamentary groups. Or I also turn to, if you think it is appropriate and we agree – if we agree – that it was a proposal of the same Parliament that we could, therefore, raise to the Congress of Deputies. Sense dubte is a topic that we have to address, that we have to face, because it is an immediate need to be able to increase this period, this minimum duration of the contracts of lloger. The first of the objectives, the increase of the public housing park. I insist, we have what we have, a few thousand in own management, those we have agreed with financial entities, and our intention is to continue to increase it in the measure that we actually have of financing. I want to remember that the financing to be able, therefore, to promote public park, even though we have the competitions, goes from the transfers from the State. The transfers from the State come in the form of the Housing Plan. And this housing plan, which for a few years we haven't had, now we're underdotted– underdotted–, very underdotted, huh? We have more or less expected to operate around EUR 50 million per year for four years, and that is clearly insufficient, huh? In other times we had not come to have more than double. And, therefore, there is an under-dottation that, in a sense of doubt, will condition us at the time to have sufficient resources to promote, to be able to make public promotion of housing of lloger, which is what we need, huh? And, therefore, there is, yes, a first complaint: the Housing Plan is underdotted. Now that there is a new government in the State, I hope that this can be reconsidered and that we can not only increase the economic endowment, which is very important, but also other mechanisms that we had, that were in the Housing Plan and that were eliminated by magic. One was the famous Efficiency Fund, huh? , which allowed us, in Catalonia, to obtain the resources that other autonomous communities did not spend; they did not spend, because they were not effective enough at the time of doing so or because their market situation was different from that of Catalonia. We have obtained a lot of resources through the Efficiency or Efficiency Fund, and now this has disappeared, so that what is not spent will go back to the state's assumptions, not in terms of housing. Therefore, also to commit the Government of the State, the new Government of the State, to recover this figure of the Efficiency Fund, because sense of doubt, in Catalonia, we will use it. But, on the margins of this Housing Plan, we also obviously have resources that are propitious to the Català del Sòl Institute, which are presupposed resources of the Government of the Generality, or those we have recently presented. I insist: the vice president and myself, last week, we presented a line of credit with 140_million euros, which are not few, for public and private promoters, to develop, to promote, eh? , housing, social logger housing buildings. This line of credit must be used to finance the construction of at least a thousand new habitats in the 152 municipalities of major demand, demand..., of which we call accredited demand. Nor, therefore, should we focus on making official protection habitat where we do not have a tense market situation. Also, in the same line of increase of the housing park, we announced a line of help, which is true that it is finance, but we pay the return, so it is presuppositional, it is not just a credit – it is not just a credit – it is not wrong. No, no, no, we'll get everything back, huh? Last week... the only one we don't return is the interests, obviously, but the main one is back. Therefore, it is not just a claim. Last week they announced this line of help, 110_million so that joint ventures and entities in the third sector can acquire habitats through the storm and retraction, which is a very powerful route. We've taken advantage of it a lot. In fact, we are the only ones who have regulated it, the way of the storm and retreat, so, say, great owners: financial entities or reversal funds, Blackstone is one, for example, and we have bought up to a thousand habitats, almost a thousand_cent, huh? , where we carry the..., go, ever since we activated it. And what we found is that, effectively, third-sector joint ventures and entities can't take advantage of this. All right, a 110-million line of credit so that they can do it. There is no doubt that these are measures that tend to increase this housing stock, which is, I insist, the main ingredient in the complex recipe to address the problem of housing. I suppose I'll be able to go into the reply with more detail in more fears than you've mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.158.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now it's Mrs. Segovia's return to the line. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.159.0	All right. To Councilman Calvet I thank some of the things he has commented, specifically that he could have entered into concrete proposals. I also brought a few concrete proposals, and many of them have to do with what you have already commented on. I wanted to start with the subject of the reform of the LAU, and of the Catalan LAU. The Catalan LAU is important, but right now the game is playing in Madrid, playing at the Congress of Deputies, and playing now, with the change of government, with a new correlation of forces. And that's where this Parliament and the government have to go to demand this modification of the LAU. Not only by extending the duration of the loguers, I insist, not only, because this is what we do because the drama isn't every three years, it's every five years. It is necessary to intervene in the regulation of the price between contracts, and it is necessary to intervene in the tax exemptions of the Societies. There's a lot more to do there than just extend the duration of the loggers. Meanwhile, we are working on this Catalan LAU, which we hope will not be a new toast to the sun, the cannon meat of the Constitutional Court, because we must also take this into account. There are competitions that rule in Madrid, and that's where we have to do things. Here we can go with them, but, meanwhile, let's not let the opportunity pass. There's a resource issue, there's a topic of increasing investment. The investment is now at 0.02 of GDP; the European level is 1.5_per_cent. And besides, exactly, and as you said, we need to move on to the official protection habitat of logger. Everything that has been done so far since the Generality of Catalonia, from many gatherings, such as the Barcelona Assembly at the time of the socialist government and the government of the Lord Trias, is for sale. These floors become private property and become market after twenty years. It's what's happening now. If 'lsha asked too – the other day asked the Mayor of Barcelona – extending the duration of the protection of protected floors. Fifty years, or indefinite, or until it is, because, if not, what they're doing is subsidizing the market, jumping after twenty years that they've bought on some very good conditions, and jumping at the expense of the market. And I call, I insist, resources and also regulation, the 30_per_cent regulation. Measures such as these were in the 2007 Habitat Law. It was you, with the same law, who came in and took all this, measures that were between the Law of the Right to Housing. I'm just saying one thing. Do you know who is asking for the meetings, are you presenting motions saying that you follow, please, the example of Barcelona? The Republican Left Group, the Republican Group. If the joints are asking for it, why can't the Generality regulate it, instead of letting the joints go, depending on its strength correlation and its ability to face up to the real estate lobby what they do for their own sake and risk? Ruler, rule and allow, and give a lawmark for this. There are many more things to do. Sanctions on empty floors. Execute the authority to impose sanctions and issue them to financial entities that have empty floors and do not have them at their disposal. It's not just buying, it's fine if they don't make them available after two years. Because they are bound by the law, a law that is not repeated. We have the Social Emergencies Table under-funded. There are more than sixty victims of gender-based violence who are expecting housing to begin to recover and to cope with the situation of violence suffered by them, their children and their daughters. What answer are we giving? He's not giving an answer, he's getting together and he can't. And with the lines that you have announced, apart from being small, financially speaking, and I can only say that it is to transfer another time to the joints and to the entities of the sector to charge it and give the answer. It's a generality competition. Resources may be sought from the State, but resources must be put in place from here, and the space where they are to be dealt with must be focused, but above all it must be regulated. It has to be regulated for public housing. And that's what we'll find, not just giving resources and breaking pieces. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.160.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's the counselor's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.161.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, I'm sure we wouldn't just agree because you're running some sort of puzzles and concepts that I think are a lot of the past, frankly, huh? And he handles it in a way he doesn't share, absolutely, doesn't he? Because the sales housing policies and the housing policies, for example, of remodeling barrels, have made a point. Or is it that the remodeling of barrels of Sant Cosme, del Prat, de Governador, de Via Trajana, de Sud-Oest del Besòs, de Salipota, d'Espronceda, d'Arraona, de..., fi, of so many barrels of our metropolitan area or of cities with Súria or with Tarragona were made by magic art? Did they do it for magic? They cost millions, thousands of millions of euros. And there have been thousands of remodeled habitats. And that doesn't seem to count. It seems that the policies that have taken place at the length of the story, I insist, also in purchase and also in remodeling of barrels not counted for nothing. And that was done, and that was done by someone. The government of the generality has done it. And, therefore, I do not underestimate what has been done far from the story, because it has been done, and much. And now we need to focus – and now we need to focus – on the recovery of the public park of logger habitats. All the opportunities that we have at these times to allocate, therefore, resources of the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia or of the Incasòl, or all the opportunities that we have to be able to make public promotion the fem in order to lodge. And we've also passed on this lead to the gatherings that still fan, that fan with the funding of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Oh, it's clear, it looks like these money's coming out of the no-res. This money also derives from the regulation made by the Generalitat de Catalunya. It's all done and it's done well. There has also been a law, for example, to impose a tax on empty habitats, and this has been done by the Government of the Generality. And we are receiving, therefore, a lot of money– 18, last year, 12, with what we carry from year– to the financial entities, to the great tenors, from a certain number of empty habitats. They're money that we reinvest in those strategic lines that I've been talking about before. Therefore, we have done and will continue to do with the formula that had been mentioned before: the increase of the public park, the concertation with the private sector, the answer before the emergence of the denunciations. Concertation with the private sector is very important. We do not pretend to have frontist attitudes, we pretend to have concertation attitudes, because the privates, if it is properly encouraged, can also enter the promotion of habitats to lloger. And we have liked, for example, that the measure that was initially approved, that is not approved, the Mayor Colau at the Barcelona Assembly to reserve the 30_percent of the consolidated urban soils, eh? , which is difficult legally, to official protection, we were pleased that, for example, we had spoken before the Barcelona Habitat Consortium; a consortium that is the instrument of which we have been endowed so as to be able to speak and to debate any housing policy that is being done to the city of Barcelona. And it didn't happen – and it didn't. We find ourselves, by surprise, on the table without the ability to evaluate it. Actually, at this hour, we haven't been able to evaluate it in its entirety. And yes, indeed, this proposal, even though the music sounds good, because it is ultimately in favour of increasing the public park of habitats, so it raises legal, technical, economic and above all it raises the need for us to be able to talk ahead of the issues before we find them on the table. And raise another very important question. Because the problem, the problem of housing in Barcelona is not exclusively from Barcelona, it is from the metropolitan area of Barcelona. And, therefore, regulate exclusively in Barcelona when you have the Hospitallet, Badalona, Santa Coloma, Sant Adrià or Sant Cugat del Vallès, which have the same problem, turns out, if not, peculiar, especially considering that the same president of the metropolitan area is the mayor of Barcelona. Therefore, this had to be thought of as another brand. We, in any case, are prepared to talk to him, to reach out to him, to agree on concrete measures on housing policy. So much so that what we are trying to do is to complete the approval process of the Catalonian Housing Sectoral Territorial Plan, which we have agreed, that we have approved it if there has not been the intervention of the State on October 27, and then, from this approval of this Sectoral Territorial Plan, we can reactivate, in effect, the National Habitation Pact. From all this, from all this, we want to involve all the members, all the parliamentary groups and the whole sector, and, therefore, to which we already have constituted, we will convene the Council Counsellor of Habitatage, precisely to talk about the timing in which the approval of the territorial plan and the reactivation of the national pact will be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.162.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the situation of the business fabric]] [[300-00003/12]] Let us now turn to the next question, in this case an inquiry on the situation of the business fabric, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. There's a word from Mrs. Teresa Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.163.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor Chacón and members of the Department of Enterprise and Coneixement, look, today I am pleased to be able to address the Councillor of Enterprise in order to be able to talk about the business fabric in Catalonia. I am a person who firmly believes in the strength and impact of this activity on the territory, but above all – above all – on the people, they understand that it is a very important ability to generate wealth and occupation; ultimately, to bless. If I may, I will pick up the words of President Torra, still sharing that the task of his department will be key so as to promote the good reaction of the Catalan economy, which has demonstrated the strength of our fabric produced at the length of these years, and, ultimately, of the people who make it possible: the entrepreneurs, the workers and also the entrepreneurs. The impact on business activity in Catalonia has very recently been a tool of political and ill-intentioned mass debate, so as to seek disclaimer arguments against the development of the independence process in our home; a difficult irresponsibility on the part of some Spanish, but also Catalan, policies that have used the discourse of por and social and economic alarm, putting into play the well-being of many people, unacceptable facts and improbable of a supposedly democratic state of the 21st century. Look, I'll tell you this: hearing our business model is not a political question but a question of the model of society we want to live in. For some time now they have been telling us and repeating us continuously – that the data tell us the opposite, as I will explain later – that the independence process has stopped the reversal in Catalonia and that it is the main reason for which many companies are leaving our country. It must be acknowledged that they have made a great deal of effort to install this report to create social alarm, from my point of view with a huge irresponsibility, that if they really end up doing something wrong, it is not the policies of this chamber or the policies of government, but it is very, very people of Catalonia, and in this case it does not distinguish their vote, in this case the citizens are all the same. By the way, reality is another. The increase in the number of active enterprises has accelerated in the last three years. We have passed two elections to Parliament, where the sovereignist and independentist forces have won; we have passed an October 1st that we will never forget; we have passed elections to the Spanish State, and even a recent motion of censure; a scene that some have taken advantage of to raise fears and instability in the economic, and certainly also social, sphere. In reality, there has been a scene created for those who have not seen their political expectations met at the democratic polls. In the face of a subject with so much impact on society and the economy, not only in Catalonia, because the economy is global, I believe that by responsibility and dignity we need to take great care when we are told what we are saying about our business structure, economic engine, creator of wealth, because we need to go beyond this demagicity and frivolity to think that we are talking about jobs, personal projects and people's well-being. But, look, this song is already repeated since 2012, and I think it's time to put the numbers on the table, advise, and clarify what, how and when. Counselor Chacón, you've got a key department for this country's society. Catalonia concentrates the highest percentage of active enterprises in the Spanish State, 18.5_per_cent, two points and a half per envelope of the Madrid Community, which remains in 16_per_cent. This is the latest published data for the Directorate, Central Director of Enterprise, which is drawn up by the INE. And it also indicates that we have a total of 608,981 businesses, an exhibition more of the entrepreneurial character of our country. A growth that is not given at the same pace in Spain: since 2014, the total volume of companies with Spain has increased by 5.2, when Catalonia was 5.6. This entrepreneurial dynamism is reflected in all the data: small, medium-sized and large enterprises. Obviously, this has a direct effect on our GDP. The latest revision indicates an increase of 3.4_per_cent, over 2.5 of the euro area, European Union, and 3.1 of the Spanish State. This growth is also driven in good part by industry, where its volume of trade has increased by over 7.5_per_cent compared to the previous year. They are positive and encouraging data towards the recovery of the economy and the consolidation of the occupation for the people who live and work in Catalonia, whatever their origin is and what their vote is. It is worth highlighting, and we have not been overlooked, the famous Royal decree law 15/2017, of urgent measures – and I say in the castle – in the matter of the mobility of economic operators within the Spanish territory – a long title that surely amasses a great irresponsibility of the ancient Spanish Government; I hope that the new Government will take it into consideration – so as to facilitate some Marxist enterprises, by swallowing their heads to other places. His own but not the work units. It is true that this has created a speech of uncertainty and, above all, of mistrust – it is clear that it was the one that claimed this royal decree law; what has not been explained is that no displacements have been generated from the operating units – and it has created an incorrect image that the companies are tanking here and going to open in another place, but that they have not actually been affected, by luck, the places of work. But despite this attempt and these irresponsible actions on the part of the former Spanish Government, Catalonia is and must continue to be an attractive place for investment, also for foreign investment. Yesterday we saw an announcement from a German company, Covestro, which made an investment of 200_million euros to the Tarragona area. And that's got to keep working like this. He will advise, we deduce, we understand, that somewhere you have to see the pocket developed for your department, but also for public bodies as can be Action or even for coordination with the chambers of commerce of our home. I would like to note that in order to maintain these data it is obvious that there has been economic activity in different sectors, it would not be possible to explain in another way, with particular relevance to the industrial issue, that it has entailed the elaboration of the National Pact for Industry, an ambitious pact in which there is the Generality, trade unions, business organisations and universities, among other political agents, in order to invest a total of 1,844_million by 2020. Good news for the sector at our house. And I don't want to forget today the entrepreneurial activity in Catalonia, which is in an 8.03_per_cent over this same activity..., the Spanish medium is 6.19 and the European one, 7.86. Therefore, good news also in our teixit. So, counsel, respect these data, how does your department value the current situation of business in Catalonia? I hope I can develop it now. And I take advantage that I'm there to leave a reflection on this faristol. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, it is very dangerous to make a mockery of the economic issue in our home, because it affects all the people who live and work in Catalonia. This supposes to touch on the foundational pillar of our country's social and economic development, and puts at risk the working places, therefore, the expectations and illusions of many families. It is important that all our applications strive to boost the business fabric activity, protect it from all departments and help it in the better number of services – also taking advantage of the presence of other advisors – and the infrastructure needed for its establishment and development. A responsible government should not do another thing. And I invite all parliamentary groups to make constructive contributions so as to support at the highest level the competitiveness of the enterprise in our home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.164.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pallarès. To answer the question, on behalf of the Government, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Maria Ángels Chacón, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.165.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies..., deputy, on these few days I have taken possession of the councillor's office I have already had different interviews, meetings, with socioeconomic agents, with companies, and everyone asks, "What is the full route, what is the situation, what is the strategy that will follow this department from now on, for what it does to the Department of Enterprise." And they ask when it's a fact that we have this 20 percent of industrial GDP, we're a very industrialised economy, and they're getting rid of all these interferences that's been going on – the Member didn't do anything about it – they ask what's going to happen. I like to give them some thought, and it's... let's talk about this decree again, shall we? This instability, more than the political context has been less stable, this economic instability is not real, or, if not, it is not all the real that has sometimes been meant to move. Let's start with this decree. Before October 1, growth, all the foreign investment objective indicators, exports, industrial GDP, followed, therefore, had a very positive index. From this decree, he begins a journey of his social – of his social, that not of productive centers–, and it is true, has had effects, there have been enterprises that have changed his social. Let us remember and clarify a little which is the effect of this decree that facilitated the transfer of its corporate socials, allowing these to be transferred without the necessary agreement of the board of shareholders, but only to hold the agreement of the board of directors. Therefore, it was easy, inviting companies to leave. Businesses have moved, they've moved all the time. Before he gave a few data: the year 2015, there were three thousand companies that left Catalonia, two thousand that were registered in Catalonia. From this transfer there has always been, but with this regulation what we do is put a captivator or an accelerator to which this one has fled. What's the excuse? Well, we can imagine; they are obviously political criteria, which they have nothing to do with, and now I will comment on, with the economic reality of our country. On one side we have the decree, all the pressure we have tried to do at the political level, at the media level, and on the other side what do we have? So, mirin, lords, lords, the Financial Times declares us as the best area to invest all over southern Europe for populations of more than 4_million inhabitants for the years 2018-2019. Financial Times. I think it's a very solvent and weak entity that can be manipulated politically. Why do we learn how to better invest from all over southern Europe? So why, as much as they want to love it, as much as they want to mislead it, our industry is solid and diverse. We have the whole set of value chains in the production sector, we have local talent, local talent coming from universities, vocational training centres, training centres for business schools, schools. We have talent. And that's why – I'll refer to it later – many of the investments announced in these past months have been linked to the technology sector. We have local talent and we have international talent, because our start-ups ecosystem, for example, to give them data, 23_percent of the workers are foreign; 14_percent of the founders of these start-ups are foreign. Speaking of the start-ups system, another time, also, more, an international recognizance holds in Barcelona the five- or three-year rendezvous – depending on what was the last year that was observed – where to invest in start-ups. Who is another of the actions we have that value businesses at the time of investing in Catalonia? Technological and knowledge infrastructure centres, centres such as Tecnio, research centres, the supercomputer Mare Nostrum, the synchro, the Catalan Institute of Photonics, and many others; they are country infrastructures, infrastructures that differentiate us qualitatively. We have the connectivity that gives us Barcelona airport, where companies, this year 2018, is expected to increase their flight offer by 13_per_cent. We have an excellent geostrategic position, with the two ports – Barcelona and Tarragona – more important. And we have events... we're a world-wide event referent, like the Mobile World Congress. Therefore, competitiveness, qualified talent and quality of local industry and suppliers. For all this, for all these reasons that are not a fan of the night and in which the Government of the Generality has worked years and years, which are the result of a strategy developed during all these years, some multinationals start to settle here more and more, but with a particularity, so I think it's very interesting, and it's that some of the businesses start to settle here. This makes it special here..., that makes its findings, its multinational meetings, it weaves català, it weaves..., workers and acts Catalans also have a position at the time of deciding reversions and locations. He said: "These are the reasons for which companies are investing here. But it is that, beyond these objective criteria – and that I fully subscribe to what the honourable Member has said – they are doing wrong – they are doing wrong – they are doing wrong – this intention. I may have some political performance, but I ask, please, that we always think about our product fabric, about the workers and workers who, beyond all this magic, want their job place to remain stable and their company to continue positioning in the day-to-day. Deia: "There is a later strategy that makes us competitive. And then there are indicators, there are indicators that can't be missed. The first is the export record. Whether you like it or not, it's an objective xifra: this past year has exceeded 70,000_million exports and has increased the number of regular exporting companies, which record for five years as a result, surpassing the dissit_ thousand enterprises. Catalan regular exporting enterprises, with a 33,8_percent of total exporting enterprises throughout the State, lead the export chain. High-tech Catalan exports, which are very interesting – therefore, we are not only a competitive country for which it takes, but also for innovation and qualification – they grow in a 9_per_cent year-on-year; an increase of more than €100,300_million. For sectors, metallurgy, automotive, the chemical sector are the most important. The European Union concentrates a 64,9_per_cent of these exports. Therefore, exports in value-added sectors and exports to Europe. Another indicator we have is foreign investment. Some data have also been given today – we have commented on them for a while – and we want to put in value and comment on some aspects that I think are worth evaluating. The data we have commented on in this report are the data from the exports of the projects worked from Action, from the Trade & Investment Agency, from Action, and this past year we re-recorded projects and employment records created for these projects. And there are so many, and so many indicators, that, objectively, as much as they tend to store, we will not tire of repeating: our economy is alive, our economy competes globally and our economy demonstrates this 20_percent of industrial GDP– 20_percent of industrial GDP– that we already have, which is the year 2020 for the European Union, is what we now have in Catalonia; we want to keep growing. All this is objective data, it is the result that we are now collecting, the fruit of strategies, the fruit of the work of many months, of many years. And what's the full route we have from now on? So this whole route we have marked and we have consensus among all, because all political forces, all socio-economic agents with recognized representativeness, signed the National Pact for Industry. And this National Pact for Industry is working on the six axes that really matter to day-to-day businesses and on which it focuses and will focus the strategy of this department, such as the issue of employment and competitiveness, the issue of business size and finance, occupation, new technologies and digitisation, infrastructure and energy, and the circular economy and sustainability. We have the full path marked, we have to execute it. We have the shares, we have..., we have to agree on the assumption. We have the indicators. This National Pact for Industry, when some forces told us that last year we didn't do anything, this pact was completed with more than 75 per cent. A pact, I repeat, agreed to by everyone, and we all have to take on our own, because that's how it was done at the time. This is the full road and this is the tool that, whatever the political colour of the Government there is in this country, whatever the political preference, the National Pact for Industry is the tool that must position our industrial fabric following the indicators that we have obtained so far, that we have been achieved until now, and that we have been involved in a productive and competitive economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.166.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Chacon. To make now the reply has the word of Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.167.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Chacón, thank you very much for the data, for the work, for the full route and obviously we would be – we would be – at his side. Look, I feel proud for the work done, because what he said is that there were already many things started, but I also have to say today, I have to express thanks and gratitude to all those councillors, councillors, president, vice presidents, president of the Parliament, whether you are ready or in exile, who have certainly brought you many of their responsibilities as a government, because today we can start folding this new full road. But we continue, today we talk about entrepreneurs, we talk about business fabric, we talk about jobs, we talk about work, about welfare, about personal projects, about the development of a society, about a country of our own, about the country we are building folds. The consolidation and business growth in Catalonia has led to the fifty-six_months continuous chain of annual taxes to the lower end of the year, since July 2013. The data are undoubtedly good, according to the advice of the College of Economists, Mr Xavier Segura, right? In fact, and comparing the data from May of the year passed to January, we can observe thirty-thousand unemployed fewer registered in Catalonia, i.e., a 7.5_per_cent less. The service sector, as we are used to, is the one that has experienced a stronger downfall, in absolute terms of 4,071 people; in relative terms this is a 1.4, but in industry this is a 1.8. And that's a very important fact, Counselor, because we all know that industry is a sector that can bring – and, in fact, brings it – much added value, and, above all, a very clear tendency that contracts tend to be indefinite. Optimism and industrial investment tend to go together, especially when entrepreneurs don't see new time and trust the place where they have to invest. Undoubtedly, this is the climate we need to maintain and preserve; they are not just words, the past year has closed with a total of an increase of 12_per_cent in industrial investment. And even the political tension of the past late, the Catalan industry's guidelines are once again optimistic and mark an expected increase of 13.4_per_cent, following the spring survey of the Labour Observers, which supposes to double the investments that are previewed at the last barometer of the Generality. The survey, this very survey of the observer, also brings good news for small and medium-sized enterprises; a very important texture to our country, and it seems that, for the forecasts, they expect to grow a 15.8_per_cent for this year. Therefore, against all the announcements of disasters and calamities that had to pass us, 2017 we can say that it was a good year for the economy and business dynamism. They can always be better, obviously. We must always work to improve, but we have been better prepared especially if we are prepared for the necessary tools that a country like ours generates, and that unfortunately does not have to come back. In conclusion, the data is good, but we can never lower the guard thinking we have to count on the 8_per_cent less resources we generate and from which we cannot dispose. Someday we solved this fiscal deficit, I'm not convinced, because our job is to work for Catalonia and for all Catalans and Catalans. We have to walk, yes, with caution. But, despite everything, the country is moving forward, because we have a product and industrial fabric that is enormously competitive to face these difficulties, and a government that is not yielding and will not yield, that is, without any doubt, the reflection of the strength of the people who conform our country. The ones we have responsibilities from the government, but also from the parliament, so that we will have no choice but to build false reports to keep our country's main economic engines active. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.168.0	Thank you, Mrs. Pallarès. To finish with the reply has the word Àngels Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.169.0	Thank you, President. There's one thing... because it's said many and many times these four-thousand companies that have left, but there's one that's very important to me and that hasn't been said enough, it hasn't been said enough these past few days, and it's: Catalonia has 8,642 foreign businesses – 8,642 foreign businesses. Inclusive companies with a 50_percent foreign capital with an establishment in Catalonia, regardless of where its social base is. Okay. So 8,642 foreign businesses in Catalonia. Where are these companies coming from? These companies are from Germany, France, United States, Italy, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Denmark, Japan and others. That there are these eight thousand businesses that have not practically moved us, and for me it is an example and a referent that we need to remember, because if we are attracted to these businesses, I mean, as I said before, to many and many things. How do we capture these investments? How do we keep picking them up? One of them is the External Offices of Action. These dangerous offices you've seen for some, too. Look, these offices, which are forty, that this year will be celebrated in the thirty years of activity, there are a total of forty-two people and for each euro of expenditure in these offices there is a return of 95,3. And for every job in the Catalonia Trade & Investment department, there are already 100_two jobs associated with investment projects. Therefore, we have the tools, we have the strategy, and from here what is waiting for us this year 2018? So let's hope to continue with the results we've been having this past year 2017. In fact, they began to advertise, before they began to think about it, later on, investments linked to the technological field. For us it is very important: we are in a global context where disruptive technological innovation will mark many of the elements of the competitiveness of our companies and the fact that companies like Amazon, Criteo, Jabil, Boehringer, Hempel, Roche, have announced investments in Catalonia, many of them, as I say, linked to the technological sector, want to say a lot and many things. It means that we are not only taught to be a productive territory, but also a territory where there is knowledge, where there is innovation. So, more than focusing on debates, repeating figures than animating, so, this catastrophic speech, we..., said before the Member, all this has a series of repercussions; repercussions on the product fabric, on growth and on the places of work. I invite you, all those who have gone abroad to work – almost – with a certain degree of satisfaction. To work because..., to turn this trend and to work because our businesses really are international, which is what we want. Therefore, Members, Members, the place to continue to consolidate this fabric and help us build this model of country with all and every one of its instruments and mechanisms to grow. Because it wasn't just about the process – it wasn't just about the process – here it was about, like bans, occupation, competitiveness. There was talk about the size of businesses and their financing. There's been talk of formation. One of the most important challenges we have is the demand that companies, professionals, have for the offer that there is both at the level of university degrees and in the formative cycles. Because we have a deficit, that's a problem. There are new professional profiles that will need to be created and adapted. Promoting, sensitizing all companies of this new industrial revolution that is already industry 4.0. There's also been talk of infrastructure and energy. Some infrastructures that, if we do not demand them folded, take on competitiveness in our product fabric, not just the Mediterranean Corridor, so many investments promised that then remain in nothing. And we talk about circular economy and sustainability, because we have a strategy, we have a strategy of governance, we seek consensus, we position our product fabric, because we want a sustainable and inclusive productive economy – sustainable and inclusive – because it is the guarantee of resources so that we can then apply social policies and work places, which is our objective end. Therefore, with this will to add to me, to seek consensus, to seek them all, positioning our companies, our product fabric, to the work tables where we work these elements that give competitiveness to our companies – a lot of pepper; our catalized fabric is in more than 95_percent of peppers–, we will be at your side. And we would very much like all political forces to contribute to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.170.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Chacón. [[Interview with the Government on the social dimension of culture]] [[300-00004/12]] Finished this item on the agenda, the item set is the question to the Government on the social dimension of culture, presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. To expose the inquiry, French Congressman Ten has the word for two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.171.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor, deputy, deputies, deputies, very late. Today, June 20, the eve of the summer solstice, today we take spring and mark the pace in the summer, and the days passed, and the days passed, too, in prison and exile. Tomorrow is Music Day, a very cultural day in Catalonia, a very popular day. And that song of the great Jaume Sisa of the Nit de Sant Joan, of the not least great Dagoll Dagom : « Spring to the Lord is, goodbye, goodbye; goodbye, tell him. I'm opening up at this cliff, and I'd get a nude in my throat and I wouldn't be able to say anything more if you didn't make an element of the hole that fills my head and color, the hole of solidarity. Who would have told me that today the pages of Tortellà, Garrotxa, Girona's comarchi, all Catalonia, follow already the gilded computer, the blat groc, and in grog dances. Who told me that today would carry the hole, and the pit, the soul, thinking of so much, so much injustice. Thinking about those who aren't there, now and here; thinking about those who aren't, now and here. And as it goes from culture, I'll mention Councilman Puig. But I also think of the Jordis, mechanics, retirees, pallassos, singers, mayors, mayors, exiles, prisoners and now also castlers. Let us say 'no', let us say 'no'. Councillor Laura Borràs..., today let me ask her, deputies and deputies, let me, in the name of culture, ask them all and everyone, and it is that if culture does not ask us, it does not have enough strength. But I do not want to reflect on this type of question, which is precisely what the creators propose to us; creators who, from their indispensable situation, have suffered from the detail, the economic intervention, 155, the exasperation, the focus of the central government and the precariousness of work. They will agree with me, all of you, that culture is done by the citizenry, the collectivities, the artists, thinkers, writers, while the politicians, they will advise, on which we must reason, surely, it is cultural policies. Councillor Laura Borràs, while we have the esteemed Councillor Lluís Puig, I would like to share with you, and I am sure that we would agree, that having access to culture is a fundamental right of all citizens, and everyone, with any income and from any territory, should have free and unhindered access. All of it. And that, therefore, we must keep the appropriate conditions and the relevant actions so that this access is possible and does not, in any case, allow it to be excluded. That's the bone spring. Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: "All persons have the right to participate freely in the cultural life of the community. I would like you to advise that today we can see what social dimension your culture will have to lead, what social benefits it will have to have culture and if the culture that is encouraged from the Administration is necessary to provide for a return to society as well. Let's talk to him, ask about these issues. Now as now, both the social return and the social benefit of culture is not only an obligation; it should also be a compromise. From Juntas to Cat we are clear, because we believe that policies and cultural projects facilitate the transfer to society of the true sense of culture; a sense of culture that is nothing other than that of the formation of the lives of the people and their collectivities. I would be surprised to see more general, conceptual and theoretical considerations about culture. We would be happy, she would advise, that in sketches of five programs, activities, sections, from Palau March, she will be encouraged, intervened or helped, to seek the maximum of social benefits. If culture is one of the basic pillars, it will, above all, be because of the social dimension we attribute to it. The institutions, when they fan culture, must incorporate in their DNA a social dimension understood as a public good. Because we're here for the public good. From the Administration we must stimulate curiosity, taste to learn, as we must promote the social integration of all citizens and their better life, and then we have named "culture as a tool of social ascent, or rather, to say it in a simpler way, "culture to live more fully. Say it differently. The best social policy is cultural, it's the best transformative reversal. Jordi Cabré said it, and I'm sure we would agree that this transformative reversal is a subset of the great transformations that from a Republican point of view we have to start working on and from which President Torra spoke; a transformation that brings so much good to us that culture and education is always looking at the eyes: there is no school, institute, university faculty, no culture, no culture without educational centers. We contribute to social change with culture. I'm asking you how we have to keep going. You already recognized that this must not be the time for great equipment. We'd agree. It is the moment of social benefits, of social rights as a motor of change republic. The phrase is from President Torra: social rights as a motor of change republic. Freedom and culture. Culture with the personal growth tool, but also social, and, consequently, economic. Culture, one of the great republican values that Catalonia must take as a priority. I repeat, the value of culture is in the formation of the lives and people and their collectivities, of the citizenry, which takes advantage of the culture and the critical sense that this gives it. Powered citizenship; an eminently republican value. In terms of language, libraries, cinema, theatre, dance, for children, for adolescents, for disadvantaged groups, for those who are absent from the culture administered; in terms of music, art, thought, and all disciplines and materials, what programs will we have in Catalonia that focus culture as a tool of social cohesion? Culture, to our society, is more extensive than the culture administered. How do we get to the maximum possible audience and users? Expanding the public is a continuous challenge for all cultural managers, also from the local administration. It's important. How can we help them? I'm done, deputies and deputies. Counselor, how many goals to resume after the unworthy malaise of 155? You, to transform, as you said a while ago, carried the letters to where the letters cost them to be. Also El Quixote. Interesting. Few people would deny that the shared public space is a great social and cultural field of action for the future of the lives of the people who occupy it. What is so republican for athenaeums, libraries, couples, places, theaters, auditors... councillor, deputies and deputies, let's think big. Culture, as well as the social salutation of the citizenry. The Lord estu, in the spring, takes them back, takes them back. Keep going. Follow. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.172.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Ten. Next, to answer the question, has the word Culture Advisor, Laura Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.173.0	President – he is acting as President – honourable advisers, deputies, Parliament staff, who I am very happy to back off, very late everyone. Mr. Deputy Ten, thank you very much for your introduction and especially for your words to Councilman Lluís Puig, to whom I also want to dedicate my response to his inquiry. Why ask me, ask us about the social dimension of culture, and already advance it, before answering the concrete questions that it raises, that it is precisely because of the essentially social function that plays the culture that, as you have said, is reflected in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but also by UNESCO, but also by the Council of Europe, and also, naturally, in the State of Catalonia, which contains parallel statements, such as the article that you read, and which show the place of culture in development and social cohesion, as well as its role in deepening democracy and in the participation of citizens in the public sphere. And it will allow me today, which is International Refugee Day, and since this morning we have enjoyed this beautiful image of seeing a book as extraordinary as El Quixote to the Parliament benches, a profiti e citi Cervantes, which when up in Barcelona described it as the flower of the beautiful cities of the world, and, just to leave her hospital capacity, makes her say to her knight: "Home of the brave, of the foreign shelter, unique in place and beauty, example of loyalty, revenge of the offended, of its inhabitants delicacies, of the archives of the courtesy and of the poor hospital. And now, yes, I return to your inquiry, because the objective of placing the focus on the social dimension of bad culture is to invest in getting a citizenship that you have already named, be empowered, critical, and, therefore, free. As Seyla Benhabib claims, in a formulation I share, the concept of citizenship is based on collective identity, political and social participation, and political and social rights. I therefore believe that when we talk about the social return of women's culture, we refer to the effect or impact of culture in the form of cultural productions, cultural policies, cultural institutions, and, of course, investment in culture, which allows us to track and understand the way in which culture transforms the society that participates in it. In this line, therefore, we can say that it is already a general trend in the cultural policies of the reference countries, the consideration of culture as a public good of community character that cannot be assessed or encouraged only in strictly economic or statistical terms, but it can be recognized that culture possesses a series of values that are at the basis of its social consideration. The colleague, university professor, philosopher and friend Xavier Antich spoke of these values. He calls them, precisely, he says, "value of existence; that is, the fact that the people can benefit directly or indirectly from the fact that there are cultural benefits, concert cycles, theatre works, conferences, exhibitions, libraries, etc. He also speaks of a value of prestige; more than anything else, these offers, which generate this cultural prestige, for the precise identification of the existence of these cultural assets and the social and economic development – the work, for example, very valuable, that the Consortium does for Linguistic Normalization; think that there are more than a hundred_ thousand linguistic pairs, which allow to practice the language through conversation and the integration of people migrated to our country, among many other things that are due to the end. Professor Antich also speaks of a value that is fundamental: that of cohesion. Cohesion in the measure that the expansion of culture and its universal access and joy encourage the integration of diversity. With measures that, for example, in the cultural policies of the Government are translated into, for example, the fact that public aid incorporates social cohesion as a determining element, as the indicator, precisely. Or the gene indicator, because it's already producing parity policies. And that there are also indicators that help us to score the grant bases of the OSIC or the ICC. The latest data from the ICC tells us that the year 2017 favored the compliment of the parity already offered to us in the field of audiovisual only in one year, precisely because of the fact of incorporating this indicator into public aids. But there are many more..., many more projects or more areas of application of this cohesion value: the programs«Approximate culture, for example, to facilitate this access of families and people with disabilities to culture; Scene 25, when the target, in this case, are young; the Municipi Reader, which is an initiative that articulates, of one band, the registrars of Culture, of the other, the schools and, therefore, teachers but also pairs, and all actors of cultural institutions, such as libraries, libraries, amenities, etc.; the plans of social inclusion of factories, of the centres of creation, of the centers, of the civic centers; the days of association of artistic media, such as the assembly, the assembly, etc. But there is also, and you have highlighted, an essential value, the educational value of culture, in the measure that contributes to intellectual development and aesthetic sensitivities, and that there are examples of policies that have developed from the Department of Culture, that we will continue to drive, as now all social programs, the TNC, the Lliure, the Catalan Letters Institution... You have not mentioned some: "Letters to the classrooms, for example. But there are many others: « Young letters, « Great letters, « Letters to prisoners, « Letters to salvation, « Letters to the TNC, « Letters to the FGC... Therefore, this will is absolutely inclusive, cohesive and also educational. And, finally, the symbolic and heritage value that is evident in the review of any cultural activity that we promote. For me, culture, as Gadamer would say, in a statement that I fully subscribe to, "is the realm of everything that is more when we share it. Share to be more. And to share it is necessary to deploy a dual cultural policy: that of universal access, that of the citizenry, to culture, but also a policy of emancipation that makes the claim of the right to the non-exclusion of the bow of the cultural vessel. An intensive policy of generic cultural literacy must be made that allows the full enjoyment of the rights that are already declared. Because the appearance, in principle, democratizer of total accessibility holds that the symbolic dimension of art is only manifested by who owns the media to decrypt it. There is not enough to offer, you have to give the tools because this understanding is produced. That's why the work we're going to have with Councilman Bargalló to go from hand to hand, between Culture and Teaching, is almost..., they're some phone communication vessels for the country. The social return of culture is what allows the physical and symbolic access walls to be broken. And it's not just, as you said, an obligation, but I already confirm it right now that it's a firm commitment to this council and this government. Today more than ever, and soon we will be able to announce new measures of respect, because we have the full awareness that culture is and must be one of the main balls of the Republic, of the well-being of everyone. And, therefore, we will hear culture, and very prominently, as a form of civic participation. The social context confirms the strength of an active civic citizenry, which has made a use of culture which is an enormous element of cohesion, and which adds to our country's project, which is inclusive. Finally, I could have named a very long rastellera – I bring it all here, after you can see it – but I wouldn't want to make a single use of the list, but I wanted to make a point of the fact that yesterday he left us the crooked master and writer Manuel Pérez Bonfill. Go in honor of him one of the answers he gave to the last interview he gave. He said to the question of what things the fan feels more alive, he answered: "Read. I read continuously, because culture creates the world. We will also try to create the world through culture. And I finish with Pedrolo – we are celebrating the centenary of Pedrolo. He said: "We must defend, with all the consequences, a culture tired of living in parentheses. So we'll defend her, because to do so is to defend ourselves from barbarism, ignorance, and also from bad faith. And betting for culture is investing in the present, but especially in the future of a country through its people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.174.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Borràs. Then, for the reply, he has the word for five minutes more the deputy... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Give up the reply. [[Asking the Government about the health model]] [[300-00005/12]] Then, we would finally give this item on the agenda, and move to the next item, on the eighth item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the health model presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. In order to explain the question, the Member Jorge Soler has the word for two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.175.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, President, Members, Members, Councillors and Councillors, and especially Councillor Vergés. First of all, to congratulate her on her appointment, I did it in private, but today our recognition, therefore, in public. As you see, Ciutadans' first question is about the health system, the second, will be done by Mrs Sierra, about conciliation, precisely because we want to focus on who our priorities are, and therefore, more than just to congratulate her, we would like to ask her for dedication and involvement in the health system. Basically, because when, well, we knew it was you who would be the counselor grabbed some of us supposing that by surprise. You have come to the council for merit, for merit; for republican merit, to be, therefore, what the very honorable President says, for the last hundred_metres, to jump, right? For when you need it, I suppose, for the... well, for breaking decisions. I don't believe so much in yours, obviously, knowledge of the health system, or so much alone on the one hand, because you haven't been there. Therefore, with this prudence to know that you are here for this merit, to tell you, we believe that much interest for the health system did not hold the previous legislature either. The last parliamentary term, well, as ex-counsellor Ponsatí said, was to be used to play poker, but, well, the health system already knows that it is not. And, therefore, the first question is this. We know that you mail like this, in which you say that you read them that you submit, at the minute or they will be suspected to the Constitutional Court and that, therefore, you cannot consider yourself "tight to make them read. When you introduce us to any law here in Parliament, will it be for the same reason? Will it be expected that the Constitution will suspend it, and will it therefore be a beacon, or will it devote time to the health system? You especially know, more than that, that it was the one that closed the Health Committee, in July, you in July, decided that the opposition was disturbing in this Parliament, that our proposals were very much stuck, that the appearances would be oblivious and that we would go to incorporate them into this legislature. So you're going back, Counselor, to shut down the Health Commission? Well, yes, it's true that I had the feeling that you shut down the Health Commission by order of Mr. Comin. Therefore, perhaps the blame was not yours, and therefore we would like to know whether this legislature will operate the Health Commission on a regular and regular basis. I saw her, in fact, the other day also at 3/24, in an interview with Mr Grasset, where you, I think that distressedly, came to claim that the workers of the health system were cremated because of 155. I understand that you may not know the health care system in depth, but I think that a small part of it was to know who detailed the unders of the professionals, who were you with Convergence, who closed the primary care centers – you were the chairman of the committee when we brought the proposals to ask you that it is backwards in these details... Therefore, certainly listening to this, you should know that this has been in the health care system for a long time and that it is a problem. So I'm surprised, huh? , this self-critical spirit, basically because it is a government in this case continuous to the two of Republican Left. And when I get to this point, I'd like to add two more questions. I'll read the Sessions Diary. Mrs. Inés Arrimadas is now addressing the very Honourable President of the Generalitat i li deia: "Do you know that there are 160,000 people in Catalonia, independence and non-independence, who are waiting for an operation in public health? I kept asking the president: "What is going to happen this summer? Will You Hire Substitutes? Are you going to recover a hundred per cent of the OPR? Well, Mr. President, you know that, to the same as the President of the last legislature, when Mrs. Arrimadas asked her a question about the health system..., she simply did not answer. We think because, so... we know what he was for. He didn't answer either. The question is simple: will there be substitutes? Yes or no? Will professionals charge the cent_per_cent of their payments again? Yes or no? You insist on that because you'll have all the time you need, huh? , to work and to land the health care system; obviously, it is not us or myself who will spend it this time. Now, you, we believe that from Esquerra Republicana has some promises, many of them..., I forgive, I rectify, "Many, not all, absolutely incomplete for the Lord Comín, and I would like to know if this, as the person of Esquerra, as I said, arrived for the republican merit, will continue them. For example, will we have a heliport from the Arnau de Vilanova de Lleida? The nursing prescription, which is resolvable in two weeks, that the Lord Comín has stood before the demonstration, I think that at the beginning of 2015, at the beginning of the legislature... Will you fix this theme? The theme of the Vallès, of the General of Catalonia, all the waiting list there. Will you make a new Trueta in Girona? Will you remember the gironi? Maybe he'll go to Tarragona when he promised a new Joan XXIII hospital? Or maybe you'll stay in Barcelona? Will you make a new Valley of Hebron? All are promises of the Republican Left, of the government that you, therefore, continue. And continuing, more incomplete promises: the goals of the waiting lists. Mirin. The other day I was aware, for the tweet of a Member who still doesn't know, but I told her that I would know her at the committee, it's said Jennifer Díaz..., there was a tweet that said: "Hello, Ciutadans. Souls! I read this tweet of souls and said: "Ostres, that... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, thank you, that's the greeting. Miri, therefore, "anims! Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Jenn? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, well... you were talking about the waiting list, and it seemed that, well, the people were, I don't know, basically propaganda that they were there. And the professionals answered him. I could have answered it; actually, I already did. I said, "We'll talk about this to the Health Commission when I get started. I don't know when it'll start, but while I'm doing it here at the Faristol. He was challenged professionally. One goddess – and the information, in this case, that was giving TV3 in relation to the tweet you were encouraging about waiting lists –: "It has been deplorable, ask all those people who are Roman if managing it is a success. Reducing rights to statistical data, hiding patience, is an act of cynicism and proof of dehumanization. Basically, Counselor, for whom Mrs. Enjoined the very honorable President asked, is that this is the surgical waiting list we have in Catalonia. And as you can see, it's practically the same as the previous year, where you ruled, the previous year where you also ruled. And surprisingly worse than the last years of the worst crisis. And if that's more like it – like it's always a life to be compared – then in this case with communities, that's Catalonia and that's the middle of the other provinces. It's that we're much worse here than the rest of Spain. To finish this first part, tell him – with or without souls – that official waiting lists have a lot of makeup; they're lists..., they look like ghost lists, and they don't correspond to reality. And that's what the patients know, that's what the professionals who work in the health care system know, maybe even Mrs Jenny knows now, that's what she sends to us. And it's just... [[remorse of the voice]] – I'm sorry, "Jenn –, I want to audit the waiting lists – a topic that we brought here, and you will remember, I brought it personally – because these data are not in line with reality, counselor, they are not in line. And I'll show you some data, some data, to finish this first part of the inquiry. Divenres passed a middle-aged patient to his headmaster in Santa Coloma. And he came in with a severe abdominal pain; a few weeks ago he was consulting for this pain and his doctor gave him an ultrasound, tested him, and decided to send him to the doctor, the specialist. Do you know what the waiting list is for this patient that you're selling to Santa Coloma is programmed to digest? Do you know what it is? Miri, according to the paper of this scheduled patient, I insist, you sell to Santa Coloma, New Months; New Months to be visited to Santa Coloma at the specialized care center for digestion – a barrage, eh? Do you know that they say their official data to respect? So look, here I have them, extrete the diumenge: the later published to the respect says that to be visited the digest to the Hospital Foundation of the Sant Esperit, fifty-seven days, not up to two_months. Counselor, we obviously have a problem, and on the second side, so I'll show you some more respect. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.176.0	Thank you, Congressman. He'll advise when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.177.0	Thank you, President; deputies, deputies, Jenn... [[The councilwoman's laughing.]] Well, it's not the first time I've been in this Faristol, but it's the first time I've ever known as the Councillor of Salut and I don't want to give up recognition for Councillor Comín, first and foremost, and obviously also for whom she presided over this chamber, Mrs. Carme Forcadell, President Carme Forcadell, and for the rest of the members of the government, deputies and deputies who are denied their political rights, if they continue to deny themselves today and, moreover, if they deny themselves on one side of this chamber insistently. Thanks to all of them, therefore, and especially to Toni Comín advisor. I'm also in this faristol for the first time not like the deputy and the ones you know me well..., because I'll share more of the Health Committee, won't I? The country with a lot of people who are deputies, and we've been company for many years, and you know about this house, that it's not my house, it's not the house of deputies and deputies, but it's the house of everyone. And you know that. And when Mr. Jorge Soler, whom I thank for the inquiry, asks for dedication and involvement, I say yes, that I have always tried to keep him as a deputy and that I have left my escho to keep dedication and involvement as a health counselor, as close as I am to a council that is very big, that is complex and that I also have a lot of respect for, because since I entered this house, I am working on these issues. Now, if you mean my merit is republican, so, frankly, I feel very proud. I am very proud to have a Republican merit, to be representing the citizenry in this Parliament as I have done, and to be a Health Counsellor today. And I will not talk about my merits in the health sector or in health care. I've always wanted to put this look on the city. The sector knows me very well and knows that with respect to many professionals who are at all levels of the health sector and above all those managers, the people who order the sector from many areas, also from the institutions of Catalonia, also know me very well. And they also know that I have struggled for salvation and for the right to salvation in this country from the street, and visiting CAPs and visiting hospitals and listening to people. So, I'm very happy to be here as the Health Counselor. We never know the things that can come out of us or the things that can come out of us in an inquiry that says about the health model and says, "What is he going to talk to me about today? because the health model is very broad and complex, but they obviously know that I will respond to the citizenry. As far as the Health Commission is concerned, it is up to Parliament's sovereignty to set it up. It's not about the Health Counselor. And, for your peace of mind, I'm telling you to come and see, on the 29th, I'll be on the Health Commission to appear before the Members and Members of the Commission to explain the axes of the legislature, to be able to show the objectives we have, and I'll meet with all the parliamentary groups, which I think has already been asked beforehand, before, so that I can explain it and so that we can find ourselves on the Health Commission and that everyone can know more or less about where the lines go. And, yes, I said that the professionals were affected – they were affected. At the moment I said that the affect of professionals in our country was only for 155. Maybe he didn't listen to me well. I said: "The professionals of this sector, after having endured years of economic crisis and obviously detailing resources and having given the call, to be honest, before the citizenship of this country prioritizing what is health care, have had to hold on to seven_months of 155. Seven_months in which this country has not been allowed to take political initiative; seven_months in which what they have brought is a paralysis to the Administration, twenty-five thousand sworn declarations that the Health Department has had to make – imagine the bureaucracy that is all this – to acquire diagnostic equipment, medical instruments and medicines, above all to say that we did not spend these money or projects of references or colors – seems to be that in colors either. They stopped investing about 25_million euros, they stopped projects that we had also entered here in Parliament, such as the Public Health Agency, and also the Order of Infirm Prescription. That it costs a lot of consensus in this country when it is consensus to move forward, that it is acquired here, but that we always end up encountering those barriers, that the Spanish State has regulations that are much more restrictive than they allow us to move forward. Therefore, we will continue to struggle for the infirm prescription, we will see now what scenes come up so that we can put it back on the table. But what is clear is that we will not carry the consensus of this country and that we will prioritize it first and foremost. Therefore, who says that 155 has not harmed the citizens and professionals of this country, literally lies – literally lies. Because the country has been through and because I saw it in the rubble that I had of the workers and the workers of the department that day, when I went into the department, and said, "Thank you. This will be followed by a political initiative. There'll finally be someone to answer. Because you literally, when you signed 155 with the People's Party and the PSC, and gave the Health Department's keys to Minister Dolors Montserrat and Montserrat, you literally left him inactive. Do not answer, you had to ask permission to make administrative advice, you had to explain the order of the day and, above that, they would make it convenient there when they were not of his gratitude. So, you were talking to me about what Councilman Comín had done and I told him yes, that I will continue with the pocket. We will continue to drive the National Primary Care and Community Health Strategy, which will bring together this fifty advisor's professionals to present all the work done in working groups, which was talked to by Camfic and AIFICC, with whom I was able to speak the other day. And that, obviously, for what you do to the waiting lists, that you've talked about a lot, and that I also consider important, because before you were in this room I'd asked a lot of times about waiting lists, and I have a few things to say that I think they're important. For the makeup I gave of the waiting lists, I think there are different Members and Members here who have fought a lot. Possibly if the Health Department's winnings were to be made up, we wouldn't have the graphic here, so pretty, that you say we're the first autonomous community on waiting lists. And I'd like to ask him what criteria the other autonomous communities hold in waiting lists. And I have no wish to compare myself to other autonomous communities, but that they have the same transparency as here. We have also struggled from this room to keep the Health Department..., and we have succeeded in publishing the monthly data and, therefore, the sizes that can be made from the hospital centers do not cause a gap, when the sizes are semi-annual or are annual and, therefore, month by month we have the data. A lot of money was made available to us that put a lot of emphasis on reducing waiting time, because it's not just the volume of patients – and we don't have to translate it just into that – just as it's the hope of these patients and how long they're waiting. And I certainly don't think I can do it – and I don't think anyone who works in the Health Department or in the Cat-Health sector – to hide the people's patience, or to reduce the numbers. But the figures we ask for and we have asked for from this Parliament precisely to get better. And the better we've done – that they've come forward during the last few months – with this plate of rock, which was equipped, which has reduced it by 43_per_cent on the first visit to the specialist. And, like you said, it's very important. And you have put the case of this person who has to go to the digest: it's very important the first visit to the specialist, not just the waiting for surgery..., 40_per_cent for diagnostic testing – because the waiting, when you don't know what you have, is very distressing. And more proactively and transparently towards the city. In this, he worked a lot, because he fought from home too. Because the citizenry and each of these people who are waiting for them deserve to know more or less how long they will be there, for what reason they are there and keep all the information, not as they spent years back, that this information could not have it. It's been a long time, now we've got it, we've got months to month. I don't want to cut it down, but when we're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.178.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.179.0	Then I'll keep going, okay?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.180.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's the congressman's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.181.0	Well, many thanks again, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor, for all of you, too. Still lucky that you came to the council, that I remember that I think that with very similar words, therefore, Mr. Comin also came to us, when he also spoke of his dedication, his merit, and, well, to the fact that we do not fall back. I think I remember, too, and he reminded me a lot of that, so he also asked a lot, didn't he? , which calls a concretion to the interrogations because, if not, it is lost. And I remember one time, I don't know if I was joking or serious, I said to him, "If you wanted, counselor, I'd give you some tests and it'd be easier, basically because it might have been a lot easier if I put in a test type question to answer us, well, to the questions, because they were dichotomous. "You will be charged... or "Is it a priority for you that our workers cover 100_per_cent of DPOs? Yes or no? ; « Will this be a substitute? Yes or no? - No, no, no, no, Yeah, we can talk a lot and we've had big speakers here, but it's a lot easier than that. And you're talking to me about patience and really, so I appreciate having a counselor also involved in people's patience. You say I'm not talking about the surgical list, so I think it's right, let's go. Let's talk about diagnostic tests, let's talk about other visits, if you like. And I will continue for Santa Coloma, basically also because I wanted to give thanks also to the platform of "Santako say enough, in this case to talk to her about a patient who has to go to the uroleg. Do you know how late it is in Santa Coloma to visit the urology specialist? Six_months, advise– six_months. Do you know how many days he gives his middle-class web page? Sixty-five. And exactly the same for the trauma: six months is what the patients triage to schedule, fifty-seven to the trauma to Santa Coloma. You're talking about patience. So much for patience... well, we can talk about it enough. Miri, the other day, we met a lady, also middle-aged, with herring discs, with a lot of lumbar pain. His meth at Reus was treating him, so, with anti-inflammatory drugs, with narcotics, with anxiolytics... He explained to us, in addition, that he wakes up on the night of the intense pains, I think he carries gabapentin... A very great pain. Lady with kids, now she's out of work. Imagine's, isn't it? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You talk about patience; we talk about patience. You said: "I did not talk to you about the surgical list; I will talk to you about another list: the pain clinic. Do you know how long it will take this lady to be visited at the Hospital Sant Joan, in Reus? So look, here I have a list – not official, certainly, because the officer is not public, but the unofficial I have it –: pain clinic, last week's sayings were scheduled for March 13, 2019. That's pathetic, huh? Having a lady throwing up at night, raised from pain, from low work, that's patience. As patiently as he is, he will advise..., and change of territory and 'go to the Slugges de Llobregat, because we have there another lord of fifty-one years, that his drift to the trauma due to a great pain of the shoulder, and tell us, moreover, that he has pain and functional limitation; he is also low, neither went to work. You know, counselor, how much are you trigating to visit this patient in Slugges de Llobregat? So here I have the citation paper, counselor. [[the orator shows it to the chamber]] - bleached, obviously, huh? , to anonymize it –: set_months, set_months to visit this patient. Do you know how many official data you publish? Fifty days. Here I have it. [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] It's diumenge bullshit. Fifty days, fifty days, according to official data. Set_messions. Well, you were also talking to me about evidence. So of tests we can return... Arnau de Vilanova: do you know how late they are to do a cervical spine CT without contrast? One hundred and twenty days when you're a patient, thirty-three days when you read official data. And the same for an electromyogram: fifty-seven days for one thing, one hundred and twenty-seven when you're a patient. Counsel, I want you to be very involved in this legislature, I want you to get the funding, I want you to fight to pay the health workers you're looking for, I want you to be able to hire replacements so that this summer we're not collapsing and I won't have to come here another time to say: "Conseller, we have the health system in collapsing. He will advise, I wish to involve himself in the absolute transparency of the waiting list, because it is obvious that when the data is so different, then we have a problem. You know that the last legislature we asked for an audit, you know that we have presented an integral law for the list of waits, when Esquerra Republicana, Mr Comín, asked to stay...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.182.0	Mr. Soler, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.183.0	And I'm done, Mr. President, saying that I want this year and this legislature not to be an issue for you, and we can also talk about the waiting list. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.184.0	He'll advise when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.185.0	Thank you, President. We can continue with the lists, because I didn't say at all that I didn't want to talk about the surgical intervention lists. And, obviously, procedures were prioritized, because there were those procedures that had a longer waiting time, it was a shoal, it was resourced, there were better ones and, obviously – obviously – as always, there are many better ones to do. And so, I see we're on the side of this. I don't think it's exactly right to bring concrete examples here, okay? , without being able to talk about the complexity of the system. And I'm sure... and I don't want to say anything about it here, and therefore, about all this patience that you have put me on the table and I can share it, and it's clear that this advice, but not just me, but all my team and all the people who have been working for it for a long time, will be loving to improve everything that is the hope lists not just surgical, but also, as you said, access the specialist and diagnostic tests. That is why audits have also been set up, because they also worked from the Parliament because there may be these audits. That's why they look at the hospitals, that's why they look at the health region level as they can improve the circuits. And what has happened, apart from the transparency in my greeting, is that with this proactive management, well managing the skins and driving even better in the clinical management, what you see, after the audits, is that the whole team, the professionals and the hospital management are much more involved in this management of the lists, which I am glad about, because it forms part of the struggle of many people. I'd like to ask you how long you think you have to wait for someone who doesn't have the luck of keeping the papers in order, who may not have a home and you'd leave her out of the health care system. [[Greetings.]] Because this exists. Because we wanted to protect the universality of salvation by law, because when you ask a question about the health model I say that it is a public and universal health model, because it is a basic characteristic and pillar of our health system, and I say to you: why after the Royal Decree of 2012 you, your party, Ciutadans, came to this Parliament and made us a reason that it was: "to review the criteria for granting Catalan health cards, so that the Catalogue of health services to which foreign citizens who reside in Catalonia are entitled – so that they would recognize that they reside in Catalonia and that, therefore, they should have or should have given the condition in and of citizens, but that they are irregularly – "to limit themselves to these things. Urgencies do; it was not the case that we died at the gates of hospitals. Embarrassments yes, by fate – by fate. And add something that does not add to the royal decree, which says: "Well, those things of public salvation that in the end could infect the others, perhaps we also pose them. So that is not to guarantee the right to salvation, that you do, and that here in the Parliament of Catalonia, with a majority consensus of the forces, except for the "no" of the People's Party and its abstention, we are fighting for a universal health system. This is fighting for the right to salvation. And I also want to say to him: since the Spanish Government is prepared to withdraw the royal decree, I also say that it respects the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia, and what must be done is to withdraw the appeal to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I hope that you will vacate Madrid, Mr. Villegas, who was presenting this motion in 2013, and tell them that yes, that they repeal the royal decree, and that yes, that above all they pass the appeal of the TC to the Law of Universalization of the salvation that we approved here in Catalonia. Make it clear that not only will this councillor, but many deputies who are in this chamber, we will fight for a better system. Therefore, here we will find ourselves, we will talk about the week you see, and, please – please – do not play with the salvation of the citizens. I assure you well – I assure you well – that I will never do it and will always fight to have a better greeting for everyone, private cases and the complex system, which is complex, in general. I, above all, to take into account...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.186.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.187.0	...the professionals who have been fighting and who continue to fight in this country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.188.0	The next question is about the reconciliation of the old differences in the lives of families with infants between zero and three years, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Question to the Government on the reconciliation of the old differences in the lives of families with infants between the ages of zero and three]] [[300-00006/12]] Ms Sonia Sierra, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, made the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.189.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, guests. He congratulates all of us counselors, counselors, and very uncertain. I would like to give them the opportunity, to all the advisers who come out today to speak – now only two remain – since Mrs. Borràs did not want to condemn the fact that you do not want one of the most experts in Cervantes to speak of Cervantes in a public university, I would ask the rest of the advisers who do condemn me. Because Mrs. Borràs has given us lessons, with her usual supremacism..., she does by the fact that, as we are from Ciutadans, we have not read El Quixot. [[Greetings.]] Oh, my God! But it's advice that I see that I don't have a... because then there's a deputy from the Republican Left who's proud to be a great reader of an author and puts a quote in his mouth that's not from him, but from another author, and then there's a counselor and gives him the reason. Talk to your deputies, madame will advise, and leave them in Ciutadans, that we are having a very good time talking about Cervantes, I can assure you. [[Greetings.]] But we already know that the supremacists, the totalitarians, hate culture. [[remorse of the voice]] – I am delighted that the people are gifted by all·ludida, because I have not quoted anyone –, we already know that the totalitarians hate culture: they prevented a French lord... Because you are sent back to El Quixot and give this famous quote of « file of courtesy and hostel of foreigners. Very well; therefore Barcelona, because of the CDR and the CUP, a few weeks ago it was neither a courtesy file nor a shelter for foreigners, because they prevented a lord who came from France from talking about Cervantes, because they hated culture. And don't worry: today, this late, there's an act that's called Barcelona, cultural capital and what do they do? Boycott. And what do they do? The only one they know how to do: to signify, to signify our companies, directors of the Barcelona Assembly: Mrs. Marilén Barceló, Mr. Jaume Collboni and Mrs. Ángels Esteller. Please tell your friends to stop checking out our companies, stop boycotting cultural acts. We respect culture and respect the right of assembly and freedom of expression. [[Greetings.]] Well, we came here today to talk about conciliation, and last week... [[Widow's remorse.]] I'd ask them for a little education and respect; I know it costs them, but see if they can try. Last week we presented the Law of Citizens of conciliation, equality and support to families, surely one of the most modern laws registered at the Congress, because we seem more to the Spanish that you see, to the Spanish that is already here, than not to this black Spanish that they want to sell us and of which you are authentic representatives. We defended freedom and we defended equality. And this law of the City, this law of the Taronja, makes us more free and equal, because if we can reconcile more free, and if all families can take their children to school in Bressol, whatever their economic situation is, we are more equal, than it is currently not in Catalonia. Because if we want to be like Sweden we have to do the things that Sweden does. Citizens have already achieved in these general assumptions of the State a thousand euros per year to pay for the school Bressol, but we want to go more there. We want this, which is a presuppositional game that depends on the negotiation of each presupposition, to be a right; that is, we want to convert the presuppositional parties into rights. Because we want an educated model that starts when you need it and ends at the end of your life, which is obviously not the Junts model for Catalonia and the Republican Left. Because you always say that when you manage everything you do very well, unlike when the Government of Spain manages it, then everything does very badly. Well, let's see how they managed education from zero to three years with exclusive competence to the Generalitat de Catalunya. From 2009 to 2013, funding in education was reduced to half from zero to three years, and from 2014– as Mrs. Niubó reminded us – this goes to zero_euros. That is to say, four years later, the money the Generalitat has allocated to teaching from zero to three years is zero_euro. A generality that, as I recall, has more political than any other autonomous community; in this they are authentic champions, in political syllables: we have around four hundred. This is more than the ones in the Basque Country and Madrid folded; it's more than twice as many of each of these autonomous communities. And, of course, we already know what political syringuites want: they want them – and here we have a few examples – to place their friends and be able to continue with the process. That's why we're also the autonomous community with higher and better paid charges: we have around two hundred higher charges that cover more than the President of Spain; we have some advisors, all of you, that cover more than the President of Spain and much more than the Spanish ministers, and we have a President of the General that charges more than twice as much as..., or almost twice as much – I forgive – as the President of Spain. I suppose because they give in fact that it is harder to govern the Republic of Matrix than not a country of truth. Well, with the money from the top ranks and a downside -- I don't say much, do I? , but a bit of a downside – of the councillors and the president of the Generality we would have a very good budgetary departure to finance the schools in Bressol. Obviously, this is not Junts' line of action for Catalonia and the Republican Left, unlike Mrs. Arrimadas, that she has indeed renounced the self and all the privileges of being head of the opposition. The one who didn't give up Mrs. Arrimadas, or all of her team, is making heads of the opposition. And we are the voice of all those Catalans who want to continue feeling Catalans, Spaniards and Europeans. We are the voice of all those Catalans who want to continue feeling the locomotive of Spain, that Catalonia has returned to being the locomotive of Spain; but without jumping the laws, without breaking everything that unites us and, above all, without turning our family and friends into strangers. Okay. It is obvious that conciliation, as much as advertising campaigns, is not a special interest of the Junts Government for Catalonia, of Republican Esquerra, as it is not the teaching. Why was the first presuppositional game you've made, extra, the first measure of your government? Back to finance the bressol schools? No, no, Twenty million extras on TV3 because they continue to be a massive propaganda machine. Okay. Let's go to the second measure, that maybe we have opportunities here. Second measure. What have they done? Returning the extra pay to the Catalan teacher, who cares so much? Remember, they're the only professionals in all of Spain who haven't recovered them yet. Is that his second measure? No, man, no; the second measure is to reopen the separatist embassies to skip the laws. Okay. You assume, we've seen it many times, of radical democracy. Start to prove it. They make a reference, but a reference of truth, about which they have skills; not an illegal reference to end up accused of disobedience, not: a reference to what they have skills. Before they said they were convinced that there was a full consensus about the education model, even though the elections won them Ciutadans, that we do not exactly agree with their education model. Okay. Let's ask the families: what do they want money to be spent on, TV3 or Bressol school? To the separatist embassies or to the bressol schools? Ask, Mr. Counselor, ask all families that have left no public square at the school in Bressol to what they want the money to be spent on, if on TV3, if on their own syringuites or if on the school in Bressol. Let's see now how governments can address the needs associated with childhood. There are three great models. In the first place, paid paternity and maternity permits that to the most advanced countries tended to be the same, which is what Ciutadans asks. And, in fact, we've already gotten three weeks of foreign fatherhood and now we want, by law, up to thirty-four weeks of maternity and fatherhood. Secondly, the subsidies and tax deductions to families with infants to go to school in Bressol. We have already said that we have achieved a thousand euros in these general assumptions of the State, and secondly, education or childcare services. This is the model for which the Government of the Generality chooses, but what do they do? Since there's no money, then we go back, we're so much worse than it was years ago. Two years ago we were the second autonomous community with more infants than two years of schooling, now we are the sisena. While all the rest of the autonomous communities have improved, Catalonia has not only not improved, but it has stagnated and we have gone back. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Bargalló, I looked at the dice, and in two years I assure you it is. That we've looked at the data. That we prepare our interventions before we leave, and I can assure you that it is so, and Mrs. Ruiz, in the previous legislature could not deny me. Well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.190.0	Mrs. Sierra, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.191.0	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.192.0	Yeah? Are you sure?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.193.0	What are they gonna do? Will they fight because the money of all Catalans is dedicated to the schools of Bressol or to jumping the laws? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.194.0	Come on in, counselor. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.195.0	President, thank you. Counselors, counselor, deputies and deputies..., deputy Sierra, miri, has had a great ability to surprise me. I think I'm getting a little worried, because I don't know how to focus the answer. And I'm telling you... I'm not going to spend three, two and a half and three minutes talking about other things that aren't conciliation, like he did; nor will I talk about who he recommends reading Kant and doesn't know his title, which cases we've seen all over the place. I think that what we came to discuss and what we came to talk about is conciliation – conciliation. And I had prepared myself, because I understood that we were discussing this, the perspective that we are working on from the workplace, the perspective that we are working on from the realm of family policies, the perspective that we are working on from the realm of equality. Even though I had done an exercise, which is... how I understood that we had made a branch debate about a proposal we submitted to Congress, I had done the exercise to look at his proposal and see what it was about. That I don't find it logical, huh? , because I think there is no need here to discuss proposals that are brought to the Congress ; but well, here every one of them. But, of course, if we have spent three minutes talking about other things, then what we said is, "One of the most modern laws that have been presented to Congress. Well, modesty doesn't have to be. I read taronja. I didn't know the laws had color; but, well, no problem. Then we were making sums of numbers that no one explained. He explained how we would finance all the schools without doing, then, a very logical explanation. Well, they talked about "xiringuites, separatist embassies, but conciliation didn't talk about it. I'm really worried. He's only spoken a zero-three school stonette. I also say: "We do not share the perspective. The perspective of conciliation is much broader than zero-three, it is linked to how we rationalize time to society. Interestingly, the proposal is made by the parliamentary group and the party that did not sign the hourly reform that was agreed between political parties, unions, employers and weave. But it doesn't matter. The perspective is much broader. The perspective is family politics. The perspective is labor policies. The perspective is politics of equality. Because we also have to hear where we come from, and we come from overcoming the split of the patriarchal family model, we come from the intense incorporation of the woman into the labor market. And from here on out, the type of response that we need to generate is not the type of response that we end up reproducing gender perspectives; that, then, we can already discuss. But from all this, from these first elements that I'm placing him, he didn't tell me anything. And I'm worried, the truth – I'm worried. From here, I'll explain how we put it and then we'll have the opportunity to discuss it, more than I do comment on the only concrete aspect of what you've talked about about conciliation – already, we say, went much further there –: bressol schools, zero-three. This morning, there were two questions in the government's control, which was answered by Councillor Bargalló, respecting how we face this government the reality of the schools in Bressol. I think it's very clear. I think he has explained that he will generate a working group with the Federation of Municipalities and with the Catalan Association of Municipalities, with which the only thing I can recommend is that I talk to his representatives in the municipal federations and that they are waiting for us to change this reality in the municipalities of this country. From here, how do we plant it? Equality policies, family policies and measures of the world of work with reconciliation with work and personal life, because it is not only familiar, it is personal. From here, I will explain to you the most important axes that we plant from the department and, globally, from the Government of the Generality. Around which are equal policies, work in terms of equality: in companies introduce time flexibility, holidays and permits to be able to reconcile; adaptation of the day – adaptation of the day – and all this not only directed to the seas, but to the parents, because, if not, we run the risk of reproducing the inequalities that we want to face. The comment that there is a working group to the Council of Labour Relations, which has recommendations in the matter of collective bargaining at the time of dealing with the aspects of conciliation in the agreed collections, that tool that we have for the daily life of the work, that aspect that we absolutely have to face. I'm also commenting on it... because I read and looked at the law they present to Congress, which I don't know why we have to debate it here, I say. I'm also telling you that we don't have the same perspective on parental leave and maternity leave. For us, they are equal, irrevocable and non-transferable, because, if not, what we generate is to reproduce gender inequalities. I'm also commenting on this, because I've been looking at the law for which they present this inquiry and what they haven't spoken about, apart from saying that it's a taronja law and that it's the most modern law that has been presented to the Spanish State in all the times of world time. Other aspects: family policies. So I'll explain it to you. We are working around a project that takes shape... with many gains, indeed, and that we think that we can respond to a reality and that it is a type of project that is also working in other areas of Central Europe, and that is what we call children's homes. We've had enough of the decree, and we didn't get to throw it, Constellera Bassa, at... because it was over 155. And what it wants is to generate mechanisms of flexibility in the care of infants between zero and six years. It does not make zero-three, but zero-sis years, which goes with a model of alternative to children's lars, which in countries with Germany, with France, work very well, or with Belgium. Why? Because they give an alternative and especially very related to territorial realities, because they depend on the size of the municipalities, therefore, the reality of children's homes is not correct. And apart from the fact that the children's homes have to be planted a lot more beyond leaving the child, but it's the educated model... and we're working with respect. We think it can be a good proposal and we hope, in short, that we can present the decree respecting this. Then, about the hourly reform, aspects that have been achieved, such as the closing of trades to the new ones. It seems silly, but this helps, indeed, to conciliation; it helps to rationalize the hours we have in the world of work, in the educational system... We also talk to the Department of Education to see how we can encourage out-of-school activities in the hours at the middle of school, at dinnertime, how we can rationalize out-of-school activities at the first hour of late. These are aspects that need to be helped by conciliation and are aspects that are linked and that go beyond the zero-three that you have raised. From here, there are other measures in family matter. There is first attention at child development and early care centres; there are guidance and support services for families, the SOAF; socio-educational intervention services; support for families through economic services; recognition and benefits for families named and single-maritime – I don't know why we never remember single-maritimes and I think it's important. It is in this context that what we want is, from a global strategy, to face a reality that is complex and that we have many elements of due all folded, because it is still on the role of the woman in which conciliation is centered. And either we have a global perspective between all the circles or we won't get out of it. I basically wanted to explain all this to her. I don't think I answer his question, it's a funny little question, but since he didn't tell me much about conciliation, I wanted to explain what I think is a conciliation debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.196.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[The Culture Counsellor asks to speak.]] Yes, Counselor..., say. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In any case, we do one thing, counsel: when the whole question ends, then ask me the word, yes? [[Sonia Sierra Infante asks to speak.]] Deputy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.197.0	The truth is, I wasn't surprised that you didn't answer anything about my inquiry. He didn't really listen to what he said, he brought a written thing, and that's what he read, and here we stayed. He also says that the law of the City has been read that, by the way, I have only praised him, I did not intend to make a debate, but that is not even true, because he says that no one talks about single-parent families... That's what I'm talking about. Even that's a lie, but it's the same. You say the laws don't have color. Home, all governments have colors. You, in fact, show that its color is the cave. Then, concrete questions, because it was very clear the title of my intervention, was: reconciliation with families who have children from zero to three years. It is scandalous that in four years they have devoted zero_euros to education from zero to three years. So, do you think of investing in zero-to-three-year education? Yes or no? There's gonna be a presupposition game, which is what they haven't done in the last four years? Yes or no? We'll make a move because that's what we can do, as we did in the previous legislature, by the way, and they didn't do it to us. Then, you say that equality is very important for reconciliation. Clear! But it's precisely when a pair has to stop bringing their children to school, they can't bring them for an economic issue, which is what happens in Catalonia, because as you dedicate zero_euros to education from zero to three years, child education in this first band, families can't afford it because they've pushed the prices. He's still carrying the joints and the families. When one of the two people in the pair, in the case of heterosexual couples, can't take the kids to school and stay home, who is normally? The woman. That is why his zero-euro policies in child education are against reconciliation and against equality between men and women, which is why we are fighting. And you can fill your mouth with anything you want. They can invent words – certainly, with a considerable lack of knowledge of etymology and lattice, as they say « monomarentals, because it doesn't belong to the father, it's the same, that's another debate –, they can invent words to make them more feminist, but it's that the movement is proving itself going, and what is demonstrated is with measures of truth, it's devoting money to education from zero to three years, which is what they haven't done so far, because they've been spending money in the Diplomat, in the separatist communities, in jumping the laws, and in their affairs, but they haven't spent money on what really matters, which is education from zero to three years. An education that, according to all international studies, is fundamental, because precisely at this stage, and precisely in the creatures of disadvantaged economic environments, is very important. And who exactly are the creatures that aren't there? Those of the disadvantaged economic environment, because of their policies. And that makes us a society less just, less egalitarian and less cohesive. Because international studies in education, when they talk about social cohesion and the education system, they don't talk about linguistic immersion, as they want us to believe. What are they talking about? The quality of the system, the fairness of the system and the equality of opportunities. If some children can go to school because their families can pay for it and others can't pay for it, we have a society that is less fair and less egalitarian; that is, less cohesive. Their policies are against conciliation, against equality between men and women and against social cohesion. Then we also have the subject of, related to equality, the profession of children's education, which we know is a very feminized profession, and they work in poor working conditions. We now have the same auxiliaries that do not arrive at four hundred euros for four hours of work. What do you think you're doing with respect? Because you fill your mouth than if there is something more important than choosing them are the masters. That's a lot of laughter when they haven't recovered the extra payments or when Catalan schools get cold. But it's the same, you say that. What do you think you're doing? Think of betting on school pairs? Think about investing in school pairs? What about an educator who has a classroom with twenty creatures, and one of them is a driver or has a personality disorder? What if a creature comes up with a doll or a stripe? Will anyone think about this educator? No, because you have them in poor working conditions, with lack of funding. That is to say, no longer filling his mouth with propaganda, really working for policies of reconciliation, equality between men and women, and social cohesion in the education system. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.198.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.199.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor, we were now talking to Councillor Bargalló that I don't think we've been certain in whose person this question was answered, because the subject is basically zero school three years ago, it's not..., it's bressol schools. It's fine, but it's not conciliation itself. Tell him that the financing of the Bressol schools, which I think the councillor has already found this morning..., I think he did not understand the message that I wanted to get him: to ask his representatives to the Federation of Municipis and the Catalan Association of Municipis to explain to him how the working group went, but I would say that, from representatives, they do not have many. The other element is that... because, as a minimum, they could explain to him that in the financing of the Bressol schools there are also the deputies. And that also goes so far as not to have representatives in these municipalist circles. Also, remind him that, without being a philosopher, I do not know a philosopher, nor..., but tell him a reality that is a very concrete given and that will allow him to hear why we are talking about single-maritime families. Because 93 percent of families have a parent, that parent is seas – 93 percent. So, I think it's worth being curated with language and placing it in language. Another aspect: you told me of all respect for equality. And, of course, I have been told by a person representing a parliamentary group that has a proposal on its agenda, proposal 102, we are talking about how to help the autonomous seas to reconcile. And, of course, if our plan is to help the autonomous seas to reconcile, we have a plan to reproduce the healing tasks that are clear. And for me, this isn't equal, it's anything less equal. And I think I'm gonna have to put it down, too. Just as I find the debate on the Bressol school very good, I think the right person to hold it is Councilman Bargalló and is already, but if we talk about conciliation, conciliation goes far beyond zero to three. It's just that it's a lot more out there. And if we don't have this global perspective, we don't talk about conciliation, we talk about other things. And I didn't say that every game can't have the color it wants, historically, say... what I said is that the laws don't have colors. I think it's important to know: laws don't have colors, laws respond to the need of citizens and citizens, and that's what we need to do. Beyond that..., I continue to raise it: if for you the solution to conciliation is only in the field of Bressol school from zero to three years, we do not start from the same starting point or start from the same vision of reality. That's all, I mean, they're elements that we have to take into account, they're different models, there's not much more to say. We don't want to reinforce the traditional genere roles. The proposal involves transferable maternity and paternal leave that you have – since I want to discuss conciliation – is this: it is reinforcing traditional gender roles. Well, as a matter of fact, we have to put it, since they tell us everything about conciliation, only based on the aspect of the school Bressol, which I think has received good news, why has he asked: will there be funding? It's just that Councilman Bargallo took it back this morning. It's hard for me to waste time before two questions, because apart from two questions we have answered this reality. All right, all right, And I think that we also need an exercise, and an exercise that I think would go well with all of us, that is that if we really want to move forward in an area where we all have a lot of deures, that it is in the area of conciliation, that we need to rethink their non-enrollment in the Pact for Hourly Reform, and that they bring together economic agents, with social agents, with entities, with political forces, to make this work of foundations, that we know that it is much more complex than a concrete measure, but that we know that it will be the work of foundations that truly will help us to overcome the current mark of equality and reconciliation is not a gift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.200.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[The Culture Counsellor asks to speak.]] Yes, Counselor, now yes; he asked for the word per...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.201.0	Yes, President. I asked for the word for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.202.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.203.0	To Mrs Sierra, I did not feel well about the beginning of her intervention, but I did feel clearly the "supremacist" word. He called me a supremacist. It seems to me that it is very difficult to use words, therefore, with incorrect use. I have sought the meaning of the word supremacist. Supremacism is an ultra-right current linked to racist ideologies that advocate for the domination of white or western man over all ethnicities, and for the strict separation of populations by skin color, religion, origin, culture, etc., and is prone to xenophobic discourses. Now that they know what the word "supremacism" means, because ignorance can be apologizing for the bad faith portrayed more to whom it is used.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.204.0	Consellera Borràs...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.205.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.206.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]] We're still on the order of the day. The goal is... (Founding voice.) Yes, Mrs. Sierra, why ask me the word? (Founding voice) Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.207.0	Okay. The truth is that when it's given by the fact that just because we're City MPs we haven't read The Quixote, this is a supremeist show, and sign... (Remove from you.) And sign a manifesto in which it speaks of my peers, of the pairs of Charles, of the Inés Arrimadas, of the same Inés, as involuntary instruments of linguistic colonization, if this is not supremacism they will already explain to me what it is. People aren't instruments, Mrs. Borràs. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.208.0	We're still on the order of the day. [[Question to the Government on refugees]] [[300-00009/12]] The aim is to ask the Government about refugees, carried out by the Republican Parliamentary Group. In his name, has the word the deputy Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.209.0	President... Deputies, deputies, councillor, World Refugee Day, today, June 20th, and we know this week, this same week we have known the nine data: 68.5 million refugees in the world. The same week we saw Trump's images literally locked in cages, as if we were a zoo, children, children who were separated at that very moment from their parents and their mothers. The same week the head of State, the king, met Trump. The same king that a few months earlier went to Saudi Arabia to negotiate with arms, to make commissions, in fact, arms come, weapons that serve nothing but to make war. The same week we saw more than a thousand people enter the southern border of the Spanish State. Some of these, by the way, have arrived in six buses to the city of Barcelona. The same month as the Aquarius. To thank the Spanish Government from here for the swift action, but to remember that there are many and many fears pending to solve yet, to dignify a little the lives of the people who have already arrived, but also to deal with the effects of all those people who come. And it's that the questions that we have to make all the folds and all the folds are many. First, in origin; in origin, because wars..., wars continue more than ever, wars of which we are also complicit. We are complicit as citizens, but also as the system, through, for example, our banks, which invest in weapons; our companies, our builders. We are accomplices of the family; we are also accomplices of the poor, which forces many people to make an economic migration, which on these people are neither considered nor refugees; of displacement, mainly in matters of theft, in matters of technology. We are also accomplices, our system, of the climate change; of the violation of human rights. Then, once all these people have to leave their country – not by taste, they have to leave – take a trip. A journey, a journey, a journey in which we are also very complicit in any of the things that happen to you in this journey. Our businesses, for example, invest a lot – a lot – of money at the border, externalising them or putting them mortal in our own territory. Our own companies, including Catalan companies, such as CaixaBank, which through Indra place the entire surveillance system in these tanks. Or the company Dragados, that places the concerts of the Spanish State and Mig Europe. Or like our aviation companies... a lot of these aviation companies... that repeatedly win public contests for deportation flights. An example is Air Europa. Or as we leave people locked up years and years in refugee camps at the gates of Europe. Certainly, the border of the Spanish State is the most deadly, the most dangerous of the world. One_of_each_twenty-nine people trying to create this border, one_of_each_twenty-nine die in intent, one_of_each_twenty-nine. It's that it's a sifra..., well, no... – one_of_each_twenty-nine. On the border to Libya..., in Italy, in this case, it is one_of_each_thirty-seven people. And if the mortality rate is not so high, for example, in Turkey with Greece, it is only for one question, because we have already taken care that these people do not intend or pass through, through treaties, millionaire treaties in which Europe has to pay, for example, 6,000_million euros, let us remember, to Turkey to outsource its border. Well, the achillida quotas. Collide quotas, incomplete for most of the countries of the European Union; Spain or the Spanish State at the forefront of all. There is an 85_percent of the combined shares to complete. Of the asylum requests, two_of_each_three, 65_percent of these asylum requests, are denied; people who probably already carry one year, two years here, who are among the asylum system; people who are working because they have the right to work, who have the right to live and who suddenly take them away, because they deny the asylum. They get them out of this system and they're left without a thing, they're left without a right to work and, therefore, without the power to do it, and they go into the migration path. The migration route we all know is, at least, three years of proving that you live in this country to be able to access the labor market, to be able to access the regularization of your papers, in short. And, therefore, for these three years we don't give them any solution to do... Those who have managed to get there, because, of course, we fuck them out of their country, we keep them from going as far as we can and above, when they get here, if we let them in, we criminalize them. As is the case, for example, of keeping them, keeping them in the Rambles of Barcelona. People who have had to leave their homes, not because they wanted only because they have been expelled from their homes; people who have had to create a desert accompanied by mafia, lose all the money they had in the butxaca; people who have had to create the Strait of Gibraltar with a plastic boat; people who have seen the death of companions and companions who sailed with them to the plastic boat, people who surely have locked them in a CIE, who have probably returned to their home and returned to the same path and who, when they were able to get out, the only way left, the legal way left is to make a sales trip through the streets of the cities, and criminals. And we criminalize them, and we don't give them any solution. Therefore, we find ourselves at a time when we can sell it as an emergency, as is the case with Aquarius – and it is certainly an emergency – but an emergency is an emergency when one day passes. When one thing happens every day, it ceases to be an emergency and becomes a structural problem. And, therefore, it is very important that among all of us, as cities, as the country, as the state or as the European Union, we begin to reposition ourselves under migration policy. A repositioning, in fact, that would already be done, because one of the most obvious things that would be: "Hey, these people who arrive we distribute them among all the states. This already exists, it's the collide shares, the collide shares that everyone has incomplete. We're... I'd say we're anesthetized here. We are anesthetized for the numbers we see on television, for the images we see constantly on television, but it's a bogery that's going on, it's a bogery that you did yesterday..., the images that we saw yesterday from Trump, or it's a bogery that I myself saw last week. Last week I was in Greece, I went to see a family that I met two and a half years ago, when I arrived from Syria and entered a refugee camp. He arrived without his son, his son who had left Syria at age seven, currently twenty-three, is to say, seven years ago – seven years ago. And I went there because we got a call from your son, who was on the border between Turkey and Greece. He had managed to escape the war, he came up with three pieces in bed, from the Islamic State. Of the three strands..., two of which, the bullet, had it between, machine-gunned all over the body, and the image..., the explanation why the image that explains the strong Europe in which we live is that of a sea in Greece to a band of the river and its son, who did seven years not see it, to the other band of the river. The story ended badly. The story has come to the conclusion that Europe allocates the money to which it allocates it. Now they'll announce that they're going to increase the pressure three times on immigration, but if we look at each other well, the figures are going to be secure. The river was full of fronts, and therefore, there was no more resemblance than this young man returned to Istanbul. The image of the mother and father desolated after seven years without being able to see her child, thinking that probably never again, because she has the bed like tea – gangrenous tea–, explained very well the reality that we normally know through numbers and photographs in the diary. Cal, therefore, a review of policies, advisor, at global level. Catalonia sure has a lot to say, mainly because we have the fate, not only Catalonia but the State, of having an oasis at a time when the extreme right-wing parties are growing in Europe, which are being included in their governments. It's not happening here, neither to the State nor to Catalonia. We have a compromised society, we have a society that came out the streets of Barcelona a year and a half ago, a million people screaming that we wanted to gather. Therefore, we must take advantage of this context. But you can't do it alone, you can't do it alone. We also have to count on the people affected, people like those who are, for example, these closed days– it's about two_months– at different points; people who most want to participate in this solution, who give us proposals, give us ideas of how to do it. We have very many entities that manage collides, that manage..., that have been fighting for many years, for example, with fears..., fighting against racism. And, therefore, we put all folds in the needle, both internally and externally. Externally, therefore, the questions I want to convey to you about external action are certainly clear. They are: what plans does the government have in cooperation in origin, in these countries where people have to leave, do we not forget it, in a forced way, in a non-voluntary way? Who is the cooperation also in the trafficking of these people? For example, in refugee camps or in legal and safe lives. On June 27, before the end of the legislature, Stop Mare Mortum here presented a motion for a resolution, which was approved unanimously, which spoke concretely of this, of legal and safe lives. And, for another band, what is the coordination that I think we need to have with the rest of the state to try to start to dignify the lives of these people, especially considering this, I insist, that we are not before an emergency, that we have been before a structural fact for a long time, and that I think it will be for many years. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.210.0	Thank you, Congressman. It's the counselor's turn now. Counselor Maragall, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.211.0	All right, thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. Congressman Wagensberg, I could say he's already said everything, and he's pretty sure. What's going on, what you've said all about it, and it's exactly what you've done with your obligation and your role as a deputy. I must try to add a dimension of responsibility, action, governance, institutional action at all levels and in all directions that your complaint expresses so clearly and so effectively, right? As a description, as a diagnostic and also as an indication of the exit paths. Indeed, today's World Refugee Day is almost a, in fact, a clamorous contradiction, isn't it? Why, as you said: Trump, Italy, European Council, Aquarius, 1,500 of the week's head or the five hundred, it seems, this morning; I mean, it seems almost a mockery of respect for the concept and possible idea of celebration of things that I tend to see with refugees, huh? Therefore, his interpretation allows us, too, to ask, I believe it is to try not to get caught in this..., in the undeniable drama of the situation, of the moment, of the week, of the accumulations of events in this land, to begin to look..., to look today, the day and the passing, and to react, but also to look at the moon, to start a reflection on what has happened and is happening. I am pleased that you, the Republican Left Group, the Republican Group, have proposed the creation of a committee for the analysis of migration and gathering policies, because it seems to me that in this environment and in this parliamentary scene they can actually come up with clear ideas, proposals and a better knowledge. No good knowledge of reality, huh? As you have just shown, it is impossible to do more than react with precipitation or insolvency. The figures are what you have said and speak for themselves: the 68_million displaced people; the forty_1,000 people who have arrived by sea in this Europe this year 2018, only in these five_months; the figures of the dead that there has been..., in fact, that so much of repeating them already seem to lose..., no value that is not strictly static. This indifference or insensitivity that we've achieved among all of us, right? All in som, in some measure, responsible, huh? I think it seems to me that it is obvious that it is a question that affects us in Catalonia, Barcelona, each of our cities and towns, and barrels, that affects the whole of the Spanish State, but that very quickly comes to the conclusion that it is a problem that only has a real answer if it is addressed in its real size, that it is European, and if we look at it well not only European. But in any case the European Union, the conjunction of the twenty-eight states that make up the European Union, has, in fact, a high share of responsibility and has also the means to resolve it, or in any case to deal with it with a great deal of efficiency. Because, let's make it clear, the figures are what they are, but to see... – as I would say – complexity is not unaffordable like these same figures. There's an estimate... that at some point two million people have been donated who are or have already tried to come, or who are already in Europe, or who are trying to get to Europe in their own time. Is two million between 500 million Europeans an insoluble problem? Are we actually saying that we can't take on the finish, the fit and the correct distribution of the charges that these figures suppose? So, yeah, that's what the European Union is saying now, huh? How did a first tempt in this sense, as Mr. Wagensberg said, "Finally, the incompliment was as immediate as the clamorous, wasn't it? And also in this land, so... this is a test of fantastic and terrible Europeanism, huh? What is Europe? What is the European Union? Is it a European Union of 500_million citizens or is it a union of states that helps each other not solve problems, or not have to address them, huh? Now that's it. So just like 2017..., I mean, Catalonia has it clear. We have been clear so far, and it is a matter of working because this characteristic, this definition of ours as a society, as a country, as institutions, is not only maintained, but is confirmed and transferred to political action, and to the real decisions of our institutions, especially our ability to coordinate with all the political, institutional and social wills of the society. At the February of 2017 we did it, "Our house, your house; half a million people expressed it loudly too. We have a..., surely, in part, that's because we have a tradition of ours from countries..., members, citizens of the dictatorships of America Llatina for many years; but also to be co-hosted. We all know what went on after our Civil War in Europe and, for example, in Mexico in a very special way. Well, now we have, in 2015, another time, with the maximum escalate of the Syrian war, we saw how Catalonia sent a new demonstration of cooperation in the form of volunteers to Greece, which was where that situation was most dramatically experienced, right? And now they're back to being. Well, so far conviction and opposition, right? But now we need to talk a little bit about what we're doing and what we're doing. Internally, huh? Internally: coordination and real response; the one that is in our abyss, the one that can be demanded, the one that Councillor Chakir El Homrani is due to the end of the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families – as did Councillor Bassa, by the way – and as on these days it is proving: the joint meetings with groups, with entities of the third sector. See, until today, Catalonia has registered this year 2,100 asylum applications, huh? There's an obvious growing proportion of respect for the past year. But the hard thing is that there is a col·lapse or almost col·lapse of the state system of colliding, where there have accumulated 42,200 requests for asylum waiting for decision and resolution. I don't think they can keep us waiting, huh? And it seems to me that's what we're trying to say. The meetings that we have held these weeks between these different departments of the Government – Afers Socials, Interior, Salut, Exterior – the Assembly of Barcelona, the third sector, must lead to the elaboration of an immediate contingency plan that faces this..., immediately, to the massive arrival of immigrants in these weeks. But it seems to me that we all have in mind that this is a solution, in any case, to the best that it is, temporary and insufficient, unsatisfactory. Without a public inversion, we say, of the appropriate size – public inversion obviously from the State, even though we also ask and have our co-responsibility – we won't get out of it, let alone make it clear. At the level of the State, what is the situation, the position of the State at these times? More than positively appreciating the answer, the gesture that the State, the Spanish Government has made these weeks, these days, with the arrival of the Aquarius, we now need to prove whether we are on condition of moving from gesture to politics. And much especially of the political leadership in the European debates that are taking place in these same days and weeks. What position will the Spanish Government stand for at the summit of the week that he sees at the Council of Europe, when the Council of Europe is proposing to resolve this situation based on financing the construction of refugee camps outside the European Union, in the same countries of North Africa or in other countries of the Middle East? Is this the solution Europe gives to this question? Will the Spanish government give support in this position? Will we be able, at one time, to make an intelligent distinction and not deliberately confusing between migration and asylum applications? The asylum arrangements are out of date. Our external action, therefore, will lead us to multiply our presence, our participation in these debates, to bring up criteria and position and defence, not only of our interest as a society, but what we understand as the best defence of European interest in this question, as in so many other questions. Now the new multi-annual funding framework that is about to be discussed, as Mr Wagensberg said, includes a spectacular increase in resources, but clearly destined practically all for defence, security and border control; it is all the opposite of European policy that we are defending. And in the policy of cooperation, finally, which Mr Wagensberg asked me to do, I believe that... we are already financing, in direct cooperation with the Government and Catalan entities, refugee camps, pockets in refugee camps in Lebanon, Turkey, Jordan and Syria, the places of greatest concentration of refugees at these times. With Lebanon in particular, where there's a major...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.212.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.213.0	...concentration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.214.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.215.0	Is it over...? I could go on detailing actions – I finish, if I may, in thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.216.0	You think it's five minutes later, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.217.0	Yeah, but, well, I don't know if the sir... I ask Mr. Wagensberg to use the word to give me five more minutes. [[relays]] the ability to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.218.0	All right, all right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.219.0	...better use of my answer. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.220.0	Even though it's from the esco estant, Congressman Wagensberg has the word. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.221.0	Counselor, thank you very much for your reflections. I'm sure they can do a lot of folding. I'd love to listen to the... continue to listen to your thoughts. [[Rialles.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.222.0	Come on in, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.223.0	I'm sorry for the difficulty I have in correctly controlling the use of time. In any case, in this matter there are, indeed, so many things to say, that it is difficult to properly administer time. Deia – it was over, all along – that in our public policy of cooperation there is this line, that of our presence in cooperation programs with governments and with Catalan entities working, to Lebanon, Turkey, Jordan and Syria, with a criterion of being there and meeting the needs of refugees, but also doing everything possible to facilitate the return to their places of origin of these refugees. We have direct support actions for entities working in favour of the concept of safe lives and safe routes, which is fundamental, which is one of the great themes that are today on the decision table of the European Union as well. What do you mean? And how do they get along and how do they manage these safe lives and routes? This means with Open Arms, in Lesbos, and other Catalan entities in Greece. He also means Open Arms, Libya, or he means Stop Mare Nostrum support for, also in legal advisory tasks, in the camps in which he is present in Greece. Or the whole of the economic collaboration that is taking place through the Catalan Cooperation Fund in the work of the presence of the co-operation funds, of the co-operation funds programmes also in Greece, which is where, as you know, there is a great concentration. I think it's, to end... what we need to hear is that the... as I say, the stage of heroic actions and the stage of the field that can, huh? And that we can't admit ourselves, Europeans, Catalans as Europeans, Europeans as Catalans, we can't admit to ourselves the..., say, that we pay attention to these questions at the time of drama, at the stage, at the time of Aquarius. There is a question of funds that is raised years ago, that the European Union, the states, not the European Union, the states have decided to deny one and the other through a presumed distribution of incomplete quotas loudly. Let us remember, in any case, the positive example of Germany, which at first gathered up to 1_million refugees and interrupted this action in the measure in which it was seen acting practically alone. So it's also time to demand us, and it's time, I think, for Catalonia to be in the front row as a more coherent country that is demanding coherence and that is demanding respect for the same European principles. The asylum we have today was designed for people from god to god, or from five to five, or from twenty to twenty. And the last version is 2003. But this European Union is debating this Dublin Convention, the agreement on the safety and security of migrants, and it has remained unable because, in fact, it does not want to reform it in order to adapt it to a situation in which requests and figures are not deut-deut, but are one hundred and a hundred and a thousand. And this is the situation, when we think in European terms and according to the real situation we seem to be starting to have some chance of success. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-06-12-1201.224.0	Thank you, Counselor. There are no more subjects to the order of the day, the session rises. Thank you very much.
