ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.1.0	Before we start the order of the day, please, I beg you to be quiet. Before starting the order of the day, I said, please welcome our deputies: Raquel Sans, Martí Pachamé, Lucas Silvano Ferro and Marta Vilalta, who will join us today. Therefore, welcome to this Ple, welcome to the Parliament of Catalonia. Some well returned to the Parliament of Catalonia. And also to announce that MP Najat Driuech has returned to her parliamentary activities after her motherhood, so we take advantage to congratulate her on her motherhood. [[Greetings.]] [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Unfortunately, however, I must also inform you that last August and September three women have been murdered, as a result of male violence in Barcelona. According to the official data of the Department of Interior, there are already five mortal victims of this year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn these crimes that are affecting us all and all and expressing the deepest and deepest condolences to the family. So, as always, I reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. [[Suspension of parliamentary rights and duties of various Members]] [[236-00001/12]] Let us now proceed to substanceise the only item on the agenda of this plenary, which is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on the Status of Deputies, on the suspension of parliamentary rights and rights of various Members. In accordance with Rule 25.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on the Statute of the Deputies approved the opinion on the suspension of parliamentary rights of various Members on 28 September. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.2.0	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.3.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.4.0	Thirty seconds I don't know if it'll be enough for the importance of the issue we have to deal with...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.5.0	If he spends them on something else, I'm sure he doesn't.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.6.0	Yes... well, to make it clear that what we have come to do here today is to vote whether or not the Parliament of Catalonia complies with a judicial decision. Here politicians are going to try to erect over the laws and the courts, once again. And this, for us, implies – and we have already said it on other occasions – an irresponsibility on the part of the Bureau, which has led to the vote in plenary, something which should have been carried out immediately. Because it was an automatic suspension decreed by Article 386 bis..., or 384 bis of the Criminal Code and therefore it was for the Bureau to implement it, not to derive it from a committee of the Statute of the Member and, in turn, that this Commission of the Statute of the Members derives it here. This report by the Committee on the Statute of Deputies states that Members continue to retain their full rights. He says the judge isn't right. He is discussing the court ruling and refuses to abide by it. And this is what you are bringing us today to vote for, and this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.7.0	Mr. Carrizosa, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.8.0	...you can't vote in a parliament, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.9.0	All right, you've already...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.10.0	I would like the lawyers, please, to rule on whether or not we in this Parliament can vote on the implementation of judicial decisions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.11.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you've run out of time, you've run out of time; I've caught your word, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.12.0	Yes, but I'm asking you if you can ask the lawyers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.13.0	Time's running out and warning...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.14.0	... Mr. President, let them rule on the legality of what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.15.0	You don't have the word, Mr. Carrizosa, you don't have the word. The warning, Mr Carrizosa, that, as you know or should know, only Members and Members intervene in this House and you will not operate them. Therefore, we continue with the debate in the plenary, with the intervention of the Members, who are the ones to intervene in this plenary. We are therefore continuing with the debate on this opinion of the Committee on the Status of Deputies, which has been published in the Official Butllet of Parliament, and has also been included in the plenary's file, and so we are now proceeding to the debate on a series of interventions, as it has been given to the Board of Spokesmen and the Bureau, for two minutes for each parliamentary group, with the clear fact that it will be five minutes for each parliamentary sub-group. Starting from major to minor, starting for the groups proposing the opinion, in this case, has the word, in the first place, for the Parliamentary Group Republicà, Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral... [[Widow's remorse.]] He forgave, forgave; excuse, in the first place, Madame Marta Madrenas, on behalf of Grupo Junts per Catalunya, excuse.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.16.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Benvolgut President, Councillors and Councillors; very good morning, deputies, deputies and people accompanying us today, here in this House; 1,884,094 citizens and citizens of Catalonia, on the 21st of September, in the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia with more participation in the history of democracy, decided that President Carles Puigdemont, who Vice President Oriol Junqueras, that the Councillors Raül Romeva, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull, and that social activist Jordi Sánchez were their representatives in the Parliament of Catalonia, 1,884,094 citizens and citizens of Catalonia, that they decided that these six men, no matter who else, if any Parliament could not be from outside, would not be able to say anything about it. We would all remember, I believe, that throughout that campaign, President Puigdemont launched a retreat, one day back to the other, to the Spanish State. He said something like this: "The block of 155 will respect the result, so what is it? I'm sure they remembered. During those days, we demand a clear commitment to the results by the State. Because, if there was no compromise, I meant there were two types of citizens in Catalonia: first and second. We'll see if that's it. Today we will see if this 1,884,094 citizens of Catalonia, who have placed their trust in these six men, are second. Because what we're dealing with here is not a minor issue, it's not a formal issue, it's not a big deal, it's not. Actually, today, here, what we are debating is the soft of democracy, we are talking about separation of powers. We are talking about non-interferences in the autonomy of the Catalonian Parliament, about the preservation of the rights of our deputies and our deputies. I, above all, respect for the sovereignty of the people. And that's what I'm saying because these days we've been listening or seeing that some of you are trying to convince us that talking about everything is an irrelevant issue, that it doesn't matter, that it doesn't matter to anyone, that it doesn't matter to citizens, that no one is worried about it. That no one is concerned about the right of self-determination, that no one is concerned about working to build the Republic of Catalonia, that no one is concerned about the preservation of the rights of our prisoners, of our exiles or policies; that no one is concerned about the lack of democracy in the Spanish State..., that no one is concerned about. Now... at the last demonstration of September 11th, like all the others, was there anyone? Hundreds of thousands of people, who are concentrated and manifest, day by day, claiming independence, and claiming, too, freedom and bringing home prisoners and political exiles, hundreds of thousands of people who come out on the street day by day, hundreds of thousands of people, that's what nobody cares about? Doesn't that concern the citizenry? I think you don't have to have a master to understand that this is a matter of concern to the citizenry. Today, in fact, is a decision of great transcendence. It is a question of whether or not this Parliament will accept illegal interference at its autonomy. It's about that, actually. In fact, there are already many people who have accused and accused a part of the Spanish judiciary of taking decisions more dictated by politics than by justice. In fact, just seeing the judicial fame, it's a very serious anomaly and it's unfortunate, the truth is that it's very unfortunate that Spanish democracy, that it must be recognized that it's a long way from being a democracy that can be approved in Europe. Finally, let us..., in fact try to allow, from the Parliament, that alters the decision of the citizenry expressed in the ballot box? Actually, that's what it's about; that's what it's about. And I'll start briefly on formal issues. We have before Parliament an interlocutory of the judicial instructor of the Supreme Court, of the second chamber, of Mr Llarena; we have an instruction, an interlocutory which, precisely, urges the Bureau of Parliament to take the necessary measures to make the suspension effective. They're suspicious, so, what if we have to adopt some of Parliament? You went further than the same judge Llarena went. He himself admits that he does not, that it is necessary to finish a certain parliamentary activity. And you deny it, you will know... And it is that, indeed, we here in Parliament have a rule that is what regulates our way of acting and that there is an article 25, which is clear. That, besides, we can't make a mistake, because there is only one, that I talk about the suspension of the deputies and the deputies, is that we can't say: "No, it's that there is another that says another thing. No, mistakes, pockets, and that makes it very clear that it has to be raised to the full. And what is the plethora to approve, the suspension, is that Mr Llarena says it and the Rules of Parliament say it. Why are they saying we don't do the paperwork that needs to be done? It is clear that it must be approved by the Parliament of Catalonia, as is the case with all the parliaments I know, of the continent, which always – always – requires that there be a parliamentary activity to suspend or not, precisely on the basis of the principles of independence and the separation of powers. That's exactly why it's done. Arriving at this point, another Citizens' meeting, as always, threatens us again, all those who participate in it, with a complaint, when, in fact, we are defending parliamentary inviolability and only do we give compliments to our Rules. But, finally, we are already used to it when it comes to attacking the institutions or symbols of Catalonia, you, always at the front of everything. [[Widow's remorse.]] Do we really give the fabled thesis that Mr. Llarena describes? Do we give it for good? We've lived through this. We don't have to come and explain to anyone else, if we've seen it. We've seen it with our own eyes, we've lived it. Actually, this suspense article, Article 384, which requires that there be weapons, explosives, a part of an armed gang or a terrorist gang... is that what anyone thinks? Is this someone who actually gives these assumptions of Article 384? Now everyone will stand up for what they think, but it's that the citizenry has eyes and ears and knows what happened, and she knows that all this has not happened so well. And you know that, in fact, these six men are men who are committed to truth with fear and non-violence, they are committed to truth, and they have always defended [[applause]] , always, that this process must be a peaceful, non-violent process; conclusive, it is clear that yes – of course it is – but never violent, ever. And that was it. The same Constitutional Court is what you say to be interpreted in this way, we do not invent ourselves. Finally, let me also say: European human rights conventions, the International Covenant on Civil Rights... We have an obligation to defend ourselves, and to ensure that the elected bodies develop their functions. It's our obligation, we don't do it because we do. It's not because we like to defend six Members now, it's because it's the obligation of this whole Parliament. All of you are called upon to defend the Members and Members who are unlawfully receiving these interferences and disturbances so that they cannot effectively develop their own resources. Waitin – I finish – I ask everyone who stands at the side of democracy. This is not of independence or of... This is of respect to Parliament, of respect for the outcome of the polls and of knowing whether these 1,884,094 citizens who have decided that these men are their views in Parliament are either first citizens or second citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.17.0	Thank you, Mrs. Madrenas. It is now the turn of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.18.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, President of the Generality, Councillors, Councillors, so we are actually before a debate that we should not have; not because of the arguments that Mr Carrizosa says, but because we should be in a state where the separation of powers is really respected. We wouldn't have to have it because we wouldn't have to have it – because we wouldn't have to have it – because we wouldn't have to have it; because there wouldn't have to be repression; because there wouldn't have to be a violation of the fundamental rights, of the civil rights, of the political rights, of the human rights; because there wouldn't have to be a violation of the international human rights convention, of the European Charter of Civil and Political Rights, of the human rights, of the human rights, of the European Charter of Civil and Political Rights, of the human rights, of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human rights of the human But, in addition, we are here because another right, another right, another right, has been violated, collected in all the legal order that you so much, a priori, defend, as is effective judicial protection and how you can have a just judgment. We are here because there has not been a fair trial; we are here because there is no fair investigation; because evidence has been made, because police, judicial, and all-in-one diligencies are invented; because... In fact, the last proof, certainly, yesterday– yesterday– where there has also been misrepresentation– where there has also been misrepresentation – yesterday, the last proof! But as a state report was invented, a general cause against independence has been generated and all the powers of the State have been used to try to isolate and slap a political opponent, we are here. But, effectively, we should not be – effectively, we should not be. And because he is also effectively violating, and giving them, the right to a fair trial, and we are ahead of a 384 bis application, which does not compete – which does not compete. And I don't want to stretch out, because really here is not the place to make a legal debate – here is not the place to make a legal debate. Indeed, this would have to be done with guarantees in the courts. The problem is that we can't do it there either. Someday we could probably do it in some European court. But since it can no longer be done, it may be necessary to pass on some of the arguments, which are also legal, because we are ahead of a 'process procedure', effectively, to stop. Well, here we can already discuss it, because there are people who are in this "car that still has right to appeal; so if someone has right to appeal the "car can't be stopped. Or we could enter into the benevolence that the master instructor has already said: "No, no, as if I would fall on them equal, because neither will I be satisfied, the charges will remain the same. But then we'd be violating the phone law of a fair trial, right? So if this is the weaving, the "car can't be firm, because, if there are members in the same processing car that still don't have the tracks, what do you mean? What's the rest of it? What do you mean? That the resources don't look? What do you mean? What, of the evidence that defenses bring, no one at all? Is that what we're talking about? So if we're saying this, plus we're violating phone laws. The 384 bis does not compete either because there is no rape, because there are no individuals from armed gangs, because they are not individuals from terrorist gangs. And as much as you force the report, as you always do, force the report, try to invent a candy can, which you may believe, and I will not deny it, but in the end reality is coughing – in the end reality is coughing –: neither are they violent, nor are they armed gangs, nor are they terrorists. And you can go on doing the ridiculous, if you want. But any person in this country who has eyes on his face knows they're poor people, democratic people, people who actually defended civil rights. [[applause]] And politicians and who defended democracy. And to defend the ballot boxes, they're in jail. [[The applause continues. Rialles.]] And rigin, you, of course I do! You run, of course, you do, because the people to defend the ballot box are in prison, and you laugh, and they say: "Parliament cannot vote on the judgments of the courts, and it cannot enter into what. Ah! All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all So the ones who defend the ballot boxes are in prison... in this Parliament can't be positioned. Ouch! But with the supplicatori to Barrionuevo to mount the LAGs, could he? And he could deny it? And I could say it wasn't supposed to be jutjat, the person who was in charge of making the LAGs? Then yes, then the Parliament can position itself and say that it has nothing to do and that it does not have to be judged. Is this their democratic quality? They know when the people who put the ballot box, they know when the people who defend democracy, they know when the people who have defended civil and political rights are in prison and then they say: "No, no, but with the others we are already doing well, how does the State, the great state of law that is the Spanish State, work? Indeed, it is that this does not hold up – this does not hold up – and you will someday give up. But in any case, I didn't want to go into a legal debate, because we could go on... for which 384 doesn't compete or have a sense of purpose. But we also defended another principle that you do not care about, either, but that is parliamentary autonomy. Indeed, we defend the separation of powers, we defend the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia and, therefore, we defend that it is the Parliament of Catalonia that will decide the mechanisms for resolving these situations. And we defended it very convincingly, because we actually believe in the separation of powers, we believe in it. And we believe that the legislative power, that is to say, that all of you – and I do not – represent in this chamber and in this Parliament, so we actually have to defend the autonomy of our Parliament. And it has to be the Parliament that is in position, of course, and it has to be the Parliament that is looking for mechanisms to guarantee the separation of powers and to guarantee the rights of all our Members. And this is probably the most essential point. We have always insisted – and you all have to remember it and you know it – that we need three premises: to keep the majority, the first premise; that the deputies keep the acts, the second premise; the third premise, that the votes are effective. We've always asked for that, always. And we've seen how here and so on, so it was meant to alter the outcome of the polls. The point is that it's not new, because it's not reflected in the ballot box, so I'm trying to win it for another band; that's right. We have actually seen this in the committees and we have had a passionate debate also in the doorman's meetings, and here I do not know, but I am sure that in the months too, respect this. Because in the end the obsession was: "No, no, we must achieve that I lost the independence majority in the Parliament of Catalonia. So it's true that you've tried, and you try, but it's up to us to defend it. But you know what? – and that's for the top. We don't just want to defend the majority of the polls of the 21st of December, which I'm sure it is; we want to defend the right that all the elected members of this chamber have to follow, all of them. Because to me, indeed, they chose me in a candidature, in a list, and all of you, therefore, in the respective, and the six people of whom we are also speaking today; but at the moment when they are sunny the condition of deputies all of these lords to whom today we are referring and we will show respect for their situation they are representatives of all the people of Catalonia. We here represent all the people of Catalonia, as much as you, as much as any of the 135. Therefore, we are not only before a dichotomy of what we do respect the people of our group or of our parliamentary majority, however far we go. No, no, no: we are in a dichotomy of defending the autonomy of this Parliament and of defending the 135 Members, of defending democracy and of doing what you convince because no one from another institution can withdraw from it the record that granted it by popular vote the citizenship of Catalonia. We're doing this. And be as obstinate as anyone else to follow, because it is our obligation as the Parliament of Catalonia to defend the 135 deputies, think what they think, be chosen for the list that they are chosen, vote for what they vote for. It is Parliament's obligation to defend all Members of the Parliament of Catalonia. And that's why we're here today, so much so that you can't please them. And that's why we'll continue to insist as much as anyone else in Calliel 384 doesn't compete, we'll continue to insist as much as we need to defend the autonomy of the Parliament of Catalonia, because always – always – we'll defend any Member of this House, but it's always very clear that we'll defend human rights, civil rights, political rights, democracy and freedom. And for all this we will continue to defend the deputies, but above all we also continue to denounce today the ignominy that is affecting us to live throughout this year and we continue to defend the release for the political prisoners, their freedom, but also that of all our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of the Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.20.0	Thank you, Mr. President. In the last few hours, only in the last few hours, two serious attacks on democracy have occurred and are going to occur in Catalonia, two serious attacks on democracy led by the gentlemen and the ladies of the process: one from outside the Parliament, as we saw yesterday, with an attempt at violent assault on this chamber, and another from within the Parliament, with the barbarity that you are going to do right now. Yesterday has very spectacular images, there's no need to say it, it's been published in the international press. "The world looks at us, effectively..., and is seeing how you, the President of the Generalitat, encouraged the CDRs, the violent commands, after having attacked, for example, tracks of the train, after having entered the building of the Generalitat of Girona to attack, to pass over the security bodies, to get inside, to remove official symbolism..., after doing all this, Mr. Torra does not think of saying anything else but thanking them and saying :.. Apreteu, presseu. ........................................................................................................................................................................... The words of "suppress," "suppress, tighten, you separatist commands who are doing many violent acts today, and we like this, will pursue you all your life. All my life, you will be chased by the words with which I encouraged the commanders who had already done violent acts in the morning to press, as if it were little! I mean, you tell them to squeeze, right? , like..................................................................................................................................................................... "You have only cut roads, you have only caused riots, you have only attacked public buildings, you have only faced forces and security forces, you have only tried... – well, no, « tried no –, « you have only assaulted the building of the Generalitat de Catalunya in Girona. You're a little sluggish, let's see if you can squeeze a little bit more. And, indeed, they listened to him and yesterday they tried to assault the building in which, obviously, the representation of the citizens of Catalonia falls. You will be persecuted for those words all your life, Mr Torra, along with your articles and your xenophobic, racist tweets, which have already been condemned by the European Parliament itself, as you very well know. But, apart from the attack on democracy we saw yesterday, I insist, which has turned the world around, now you are going to make an attack on democracy from within Parliament. Why? Because you are going to do a barbarity, which is to vote if politicians, whether you like a court ruling or not. Because while the citizens of Catalonia, those who yesterday were unable to get to work in time, those who were perhaps months on a waiting list yesterday to visit a specialist but could not get to their appointment in time, those who wanted to take the children to school quietly and could not, while those gentlemen have to abide by what the judges say – even if they do not like it, even if there is a sentence that tells them that they have to take their business after many years because they have not been able to pay the debts, even if there is a sentence, for example on family matters, right? , a divorce sentence, when one of the two disagrees but has to cling, has to be left without the custody of the children – while the rest of the citizens, of the mortals, have to comply with what the judges say, you, as this privileged separatist elite, believe yourself with the right to come here to vote whether or not you like what a court ruling says. What do you think, that you have a card of impunity? What was thought to be getting into politics, that it was a layer of Superman, a card of impunity? What do you think is going to be president of the Generalitat only with dancers and telling the CDRs to tighten up? Is that believed, you, that is the responsibility you took from this Faristol when you accepted – which I suppose there were not many volunteers – to be president of the Generalitat at a time like this? Well, while the citizens on foot, those who pay the salaries to politicians, have to comply with the sentences, no, these gentlemen think they are a privileged elite, that they can't say anything to them. And it is also that, if we set an example, it is understood very well. Do you imagine that the PP in the Congress of Deputies would like to vote whether or not they want to comply with Gürtel's sentence, because it seems unfair to them, because putting politicians in jail who have been democratically elected is very ugly in democracy? Or when the judgment of the ERW comes out in Andalusia, will we see Mrs Susana Díaz in the Andalusian Parliament, saying: "What is this, a judge here saying about the ERW? What's going on? Are we going to vote here to see if I like a court ruling or not? This is a shame. And I have to admit that you are not going to have images as shocking as yesterday's violence, because, of course, yesterday's images are much more shocking, but as an attack on democracy I tell you that they are almost the same – almost the same –: an attack from the outside and an attack on democracy from within the Parliament; all, by the way, animated and protected by you, who is the President of the Generalitat, that instead of being the President of the Generalitat you what seems to be the head of a violent separatist command, that is what you like to play. You don't like being president of the Generalitat. Managing Generalitat's Debt? Man, for what? Waiting lists? What's that? No, no, no; you to cheer, because it seems to you that separatist commands are loosening, huh? , which have to tighten more, than that of just making riots and cutting roads and assaulting the Generalitat of Catalonia in Girona, that's flojillo, that's a bit out of step, isn't it? This is a sample of what we would expect if you really got away with it. It is fortunate that we live in a democratic country of the European Union in the 21st century and that you are alone, that no one else supports you but the extreme right that comes to your manifestations, from all over the world, eh? Salvini... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, yes, yes: Salvini. That's not what they're doing on TV3, is it? , not that; from that extreme right they won't do a TV3 report. [[Greetings.]] That's why your party has been kicked out of ALDE – that's why your party has been kicked out of ALDE – because democratic, European, majority, moderate parties do not want the retrograde separatist nationalism that you represent. And besides, we have Mr. Buch... who, you, every time he speaks, goes up the bread, huh? I recognize that you very skillful at covering up your totalitarian desires are not; you will have other skills, but trying to hide the desires you have to limit rights in Catalonia the truth is that you have not yet achieved it. The other day Mr Buch said that, of course, it was a pity that a demonstration that he did not like could have taken place, because Spanish law allows them to have freedom of expression, such as saying: "Ja! When we apply ours, let the constitutionalists know that not even Perry is going to manifest here. No, no; that's you – you. [[Greetings.]] But, well, going to the internal attack from the Parliament that you are starring right now, it is an attack from all points of view; it is an attack because you, I insist, do not want to comply with a judicial resolution, believing that you are above people, above those who pay you the salary. Secondly, it is a genuine inconsistency, because you are saying in the same document that you do not accept the suspension of Members... By the way, Mr Sánchez..., I do not know where he is, perhaps with the noise of the helicopter he does not know very well what is going on here, but you read the resolution that is going to be voted on right now, where politicians say that they decide that Members fully maintain their parliamentary rights – to see if they drop the volume of propellers a little bit and you can find out Mr Sánchez – but on the second point... – this is very curious, I do not know if you have noticed it – which says: "No, they are not suspended, but on the other hand we are going to replace them. If you are not suspended, how will you replace them? If you are not suspended, how will you replace them? Based on what? Second mistake, second parliamentary error: there is no figure of the replacement of deputies, neither in the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, nor in the rules of any other autonomous chamber, nor in the Rules of Congress of Deputies, nor in the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime. There's no such figure. There is no figure of substitution; no, there is no. There is the delegation of the vote, for another series of events, not by when one escapes after a coup or is on the train, either, but substitution does not exist. And you are incoherent in attacking Parliament's own Rules of Procedure. It is absolutely demented that you say in the same document that you do not accept the substitution, but then, act after act, you replace them. So what are they replacing them on the basis of if they are not suspended? Can anyone explain that to me? Those who give lessons in parliamentary democracy... can anyone explain to me how you are doing this inconsistency? Of course, another barbarity, isn't it? You say: "No, in the vote that was made in the committee the lawyer said – the former secretary general of Esquerra, the one that Mr President of the Parliament put to his finger by taking away one who did not like what he said very much – said: "No; this vote has to be voted together" – so voted in the committee – "" and must also vote by absolute majority. But since you have now seen that the CUP is not going to support you and you have said: "Oh, I have no absolute majority, because you change and say: "No; for it will be by a simple majority, even if the lawyer, who gave you the reason in the Commission of the Statute of the Deputy, said that it had to be approved by an absolute majority. Of course, when separatism has difficulties, who do they go to? To the Lords of Podemos. And there will be the Lords of Podemos to save you the ballot. Well, yes, this is a shame. And we're gonna file a lawsuit, yeah. But you're so supremacist that the complaints you file look good to you, don't you? because the first thing you did was not talk about waiting lists, was file complaints against members of the Government of Spain. But since you are a supremacist, you say: "No, the complaints I present are very good, the complaints presented by others are an attack and a judicialization of politics. Yes, we are going to file a complaint, you are probably going to have to explain it to the courts, and I say to him: "Happy that you are alone, lucky that you have no support, you do not even have the support of most Catalans...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.21.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.22.0	«... because they will have us standing in front of them defending the Parliament of Catalonia from their attacks. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.23.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.24.0	Yes; for a point of order. [[Pause.]] The Rules say that when a deputy is warned that time is running out, he does not cut it immediately, as you did, the microphone, but he must have two shots, two warnings. And ask him if he pleases that he respects the Rules also when the head of the opposition speaks. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.25.0	There is the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.26.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, honorable president, counselors, deputies and deputies. Look, what we're talking about today, I'm talking about this opinion that the Commission of the State of the Deputy brings to us and that today they claim to be debated and approved in this House, that today we're talking about whether we respect the separation of powers, we're just talking about this, if we respect the judicial resolutions and the compliance, it's just about this, today we're just talking about this. All the rest is sober, all the rest is trying to confuse. And today we come to talk about this. Mirin, on 13 July, in the chamber, there was a judicial resolution of the Supreme Court. This judicial resolution meant that Members were to be suspended automatically, temporarily, without changing the majority and without losing the status of Member. It's very clear; four things very clear. And the only thing that gave this resolution is that the Bureau of Parliament decides how this measure applied. But the suspension was automatic. That's what this judicial resolution was about. Therefore, Parliament only has one option, one, which is to complete it. You only have the obligation to complete it, you can only do one thing: complete it. And what I'm sure a parliament in Catalonia can't do is vote for a judicial resolution. We cannot vote on a judicial resolution as if the outcome of that vote is whether or not to apply. There can be no judicial resolution to vote. Why, then, what? If it turns out we don't apply it and if it turns out we do? Here, depending on whether it looks good or bad, a judicial resolution, do we apply it or not? But where is the separation of powers? What do you think? What do you think, the government? What do you believe, Mr. Torra, in the separation of powers? I think you don't think there's much, and I'll tell you: a state of right has like beginning this, the separation of powers. But it is you, in the Law of Legal Transition and the foundation of the Republic that approved us those fateful 6 and 7 of September, say, in article 66.4 that the President of the Supreme Court elects the President of the Generality – the President of the Generality – escorted a mixed commission that if you look for it in article 72 et says that it conforms to it the President of the Supreme Court, the Councillor of Justice, four persons triads for the Government and four for the Supreme Court. Hey! A great separation of powers. Clearly, you don't believe it! And as they no longer believe and want to create a republic in which there is no separation of powers, they bring us here a judicial resolution to vote. Unaudited. How many judicial resolutions will bring us here? All those who don't like them and affect a deputy? Because those who please us then do not carry them, it is not the case that the opposition won us a vote. Listen to me, this can't be, it's intolerable in democracy; the judicial resolutions are done, they are complete and they don't lead to a parliament vote, because there is separation of powers. Look, I said before that this is about respecting the separation of powers and completing judicial resolutions. But I'll tell you one more thing that's not less important and that I'm filled with sadness, which is that today we come here is to fool people; what you're doing here is to cheat people. And I'll tell them why. On the 13th of July, when this judicial resolution comes up, when it is communicated to the chamber, the first thing that happens is that the remuneration is suspected to these deputies, to these six accused deputies; the remuneration is suspected, since that day they do not cover the sum. But not only that: do not cast your vote in a ple. So much so that since July 13th there are no plenums – there are no plenums. Why aren't there full? There's no full room because these gentlemen can't vote. You're saying they're under suspicion. Because, if they didn't, they would've done a lot. Or why didn't you summon Mr. Torrent plenary? Because these six Members cannot vote and lose most of the groups that conform to it. That's it. What is it that these six suspected MPs will vote today? Are these six deputies voting today? They won't vote, because they're suspended automatically. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes; they are automatically suspended, as the judicial resolution says. That's clear: they don't cover their own, they can't cast their vote in a ple, they can't present parliamentary initiatives. So, listen, if these three things can't be done, it's that they're suspended automatically since July 13. You are completing the de facto judicial resolution. They'll tell us no. They come here to trick us, to dramatize, to stage. If they just come here for that! They brought us to the Statute of the Member of Parliament to come here and be able to stage, and be able to continue with his report, and be able to continue to deceive so many people, Mr Torra, that yesterday he said to him: « Tell us the truth. Tell us the truth, Mr. Torra. And they don't. And keep fooling people. And that's a moment up there that's intolerable – it's intolerable. Especially because we carry more of all these months in which we could have solved the situation very easily..., which is, like they're already under suspicion, listening, the table applies a measure and we kill it already and we follow..., and we continue to work and make the July 18 plenary, and we may have made a ple at the end of September... No, they don't do that, among other things because I didn't agree with the majority independenceist. Because it seems that there are first and second deputies, Mrs Madrenas, and it seems that Mr Puigdemont is first and the others, second, because, as he did not want to be suspicious, so he did not agree. And come on, October 2nd, we're today, and we still don't have a proposal on the table. Look, listen to us, it's good to fool us; they say the problem is between you and not with the other side. Honestly, I think you should be a little more honest and a little more honorable, with us, with you and with so many people to raise them. Because today what will happen here is that you will abide by the judicial resolution, complement the judicial resolution, as I am already saying, because, in fact, it is already applying – it is already applying – even though you do not want to recognize it. They can't recognize it because they need to go on with the report. So much good for you to catch up..., down from the ship, tell the truth and start another way, from the dial, to get social majority and move forward, but you seem that, in the background, you don't want that, even though you say so. And I find it hard that, in this way and in this game, you cheat on what you're wearing, you get into it or you lose Colau's game. Because a party that is government and is government should want to apply the judicial resolutions, although it does not agree with them, because it can be considered judicial resolutions. It's not that you can only think, it's that you can appeal against them too when we don't agree; so, so, let's do it, but let's do it. Because, in addition, I will say one thing to Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral: it's stop this car, it's stop. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And as long as it's firm! I've said a report from Major Ileter Ridao, which we'll talk about some other time, but I've said the report from Major Ileter, which is firm, and that's not a question. Home, let's see if in the end one can't believe even the major Parliament letter, which, among other things, sorted the Bureau of Parliament a long time ago. So, listen, what's going on is exactly that. But, look, what's happened, quoting Mr. Ridao, is hard today, in this Parliament. The divendres, to the Commission of the Statute of the Deputy, we asked some groups what was the need..., the majority needed to approve these points. The major Iletrat replied, three times in a row, that it was the absolute majority. It was important to ask, why, because it depends whether or not you approve the point: absolute majority. So it turns out that, today, at the Bureau, they decide that there is no absolute majority, that it is a simple majority. Why? Because you're using Parliament as well as you are. They did it on September 6th and 7th. The Status is changed or deleted, we understand, with two thirds, as the same Status says. And what did you do? They're polishing with one more vote, you; because, total, when they want to get one thing, if they don't get the rules, we change them. And what are they doing now? Exactly the same! They say, "No, we come here through the Rules." What the Rules say, 25.1: "Absolute majority. Mr. Ridao said so. But like we don't have the absolute majority, because we don't have the votes – because we don't have the votes – what do they do? Simple majority. It's over. How did they do it? With a report? No, no, Why are you reporting? Miri, escorti'm: "Where I said, I say, Diego, I correct Mr.Ridao and the contradictory, and now it's a simple majority. Home, god-in-law, huh? , god-in-law, as instrumentalize, you, the Parliament to continue with its theater and to continue with its staging. You're a pain in the ass. But, besides, it's unheard of what's going on in this Parliament, it's been a long time! Unaudited, that you use it..., that use it as it gives them the will to, really, achieve its ends. Actually, this looks good to you and to us it looks like a barbarity. Look, I repeat, you should be a little more brave, you should tell the truth more often to the citizen and the citizen and, above all, you should stop fooling. Because, today, in addition, in this opinion, which has two points, the first point says: "Suspend the Members accused according to your, your, your. Clearly, one would think that if you have an opinion, it's to vote for it. I don't know. I, when I do things, it's to build, it's to be positive, it's to approve them. So no. Is it that you give us an opinion? In point 1, they will vote against it! They will vote against a point of the opinion that you will put to us for approval. It's that he's surreal, if at least... with the least, surreal. They will vote that no, in order to make clear their scenification..., that is to say, "we do not complement what Mr Llarena says, but, then, I vote that, well, yes, the rights of these suspects will be able to exercise them by another Member. They don't say or replace, do they? But, anyway, they'll end up with the measure because these suspected deputies can exercise their rights through another deputy. Therefore, you are complying with the judicial resolution. Is that so hard to say? I say: "The resolution of Llarena does not seem to us well. O: "We, in judgment... patatim, patapam? Does it cost you to do that? Well, it's very cheap. But you, really, keep fooling everyone. And, really, at least, with the Socialist Group and Forward Units, they won't play any more. This theater, to make extras, we don't want to be any more. It's true that we're always trying to add and build, and our group's spokesman said it insistently, but his charade is over. It's enough to fool us all. Actually, be a little more honest. Mr. Torra, you don't understand yourself to be the president of a few, be the president of all. Put down a little signy, tell the truth. Democracy is not just voting, democracy is also respecting the separation of powers, and, therefore, what we would like is for you today to be a little more sensible, to tell the truth and to end the charade by today and, as it will pass, to complete the judicial resolutions, without so much theater and without wasting all our time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.27.0	Mrs. Romero, it's run out of time. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Mrs Romero. It is now the turn, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.28.0	Thank you, President. Look, today, what we are debating and voting in this chamber, and with this opinion, is a way to unravel the situation in which we find ourselves in this Parliament. It's a blocking situation. We must make it clear: we are stuck in the usual, normal activity, the maximum normalization, as at least, of this Parliament. We are blocked for an interlocutor of the judge Llarena, who unjustly suspended, in our opinion, six deputies of this chamber. But we are stuck, too, because of the disagreements between the independenceist majority of this chamber, which, once again, with this theme, has shown us that they share Government, but they do not share full political route. Today we are voting for a way of fully recovering parliamentary activity, so that we can get back to the full. Remember that this interlocutory and the non-solution of the independence bloc's disagreements in this interlocutory made us suspend a ple in July. We are voting in order to be able to do more, where the opposition can publicly control the government, where we can debate and vote on laws, where we can vote on motions, questions about the issues affecting people's day-to-day lives. Because the country, which is its people, does not deserve a Parliament to half gas, nor the citizenry, which this week is demanding before the CAPs, that there are more resources for primary care; nor the public workers that these weeks, again, are claimed to pay it back to what it is; nor the families that wait and despair while the guaranteed income of citizenship is not beginning, do not deserve that this Parliament is not working at all, at cent_per_cent. But neither the policies and policies that are in prison deserve a Parliament that is not strong, that is not opening lives of political solution to a conflict that is from all over the country, but that impacts brutally on their lives, on those political and political prisoners and on those of their families. From the very first moment, our parliamentary group explained that we were open to support an agreement on this issue, whenever it was an effective and not merely symbolic solution, that you allow us to continue to function without altering the sorghum majority of the ballot boxes in disembarkation, that you allow us to function with legal certainty in Parliament in order not to put this institution at risk again and that you do not involve an irreversible attack on the rights of the Members concerned. We said, we have kept it and, today, we are closing in on this very position with our vote. Certainly, we wanted to get to the solution of this situation in July and we didn't have to wait until October. We would have preferred to have been near the Bureau of Parliament and not to have to arrive at a debate in plenary. We would have liked you to have been an agreement with the vast majority of support of this chamber. It has not been so, it will not be so, but not by factors that fall within our parliamentary group. We are responsible for our vote and our position and our coherence, and what we are doing today is what we have defended from the very first moment on this issue, and today we will vote responsibly to support a solution that unlocks the situation. Today, in change, we see, a little more, that the extremes, in this country, the blockade is already good for them. I'm referring to what Ciutadans will do, but probably to which, surely, they will also explain to us now that they will make the People's Party or the CUP. Those who see the conflict already are well off that they do not approve or that there is not enough support in the second point of this opinion and that there is no effective solution that unlocks the situation of Parliament. And we are surprised, and very surprised, that the Socialist Party, that the Socialist Group, which also defended the need for this release and which clearly defended that the formula or option should be based on the replacement of suspected Members for others in its own group, did not join this agreement today. I suppose you agree with the phrase that « what is needed is to return politics to the Parliament of Catalonia. I suppose they do, because I've heard it from a tweet from President Pedro Sánchez this morning. So, the way to return politics to the Catalonian Parliament, today, it is voting that there is a specific solution to replace the suspected Members. And you're sitting there reporting others: in the theater. Because, for the photo of voting in Ple that you were willing to vote in the Bureau of Parliament, today you fall into inconsistency. We answer, as I said, for our responsibility, for our coherence and for our vote. And, yes, also for the vote on the first point of this opinion which is now being debated in this House, in which we would argue that Parliament expresses, symbolically, that we do not believe that these six Members should be suspected. Because it's clear, the first point is symbolic. The same Mrs. Arrimadas said, "it is to express a political opinion on a judicial resolution. Symbolic. As much as some people want to get into rhetoric, they see that this is not just symbolism, those of us who live touching from a few to a few on the ground know that this chamber or Parliament from a democratic country has no competence either to revoke or reinterpret a judicial decision, for the unfairness of this judicial decision. And as this point we vote in a parliament that we believe to be fully democratic – and I, at least, the vote touching from little to little on the ground – we know perfectly well that it is a symbolic vote, a vote of political expression of a parliament respected by a judicial interlocutor, which we want to make clear that we do not share. Because we don't share the charge of rebellion for the policies and the policies in prison, because we don't share the fact that we have to be detained temporarily and because, as a result, we find a hard mistake and an injustice that is suspected with a judicial interlocutory. But, yes, it did. Llarena has done so, and today, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, what is close to us is to resolve the parliamentary blockade to which this situation has brought us from this judicial decision. We're here for politics. And we understand politics as a tool to solve problems and to improve people's living conditions, not to generate more conflicts, and it only generates more conflict when, irresponsibly, it promises impossible to citizens and is played with their desires, without explaining what can be done and what cannot be done, realistically, without explaining the truth, also about what we are voting on today. And it also generates conflict and acts irresponsibly when it is played to make great the fractures caused in the country and when the only proposal that is made to solve it are quarrels or threaten with another 155. We are here to make politics responsible, and today this translates into putting our grit back in order to put it back in order, really, the Parliament, to make politics back in Parliament. And that's what we think is the only thing that deserves the citizenship of our country, at a complicated time like the present, the whole citizenship of our country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.29.0	Thank you, Mrs Ribas. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.30.0	Good morning, everyone. We will not accept that you judge without effect that the people of Catalonia voted for. On July 18, in this Parliament, since the CUP, we have already said in a very clear way that suspending or not suspending Members of Parliament was not a competence of the Bureau of the Parliament, but that it had to be settled here, in the plenary of the Parliament. We also came to send e-mails to groups in this Parliament because we can call the Committee on the Statute of the Deputy and, therefore, be able to resolve, here in the House, what today, two weeks later, we are dealing with. We didn't get a response to that petition. But it's not as important to us as, but what, and what it is to respect what the people of Catalonia voted for and not the repressive intervention of the Spanish State. They will remember: seventy-two hours before the 30th generation, with a plethora of investiture called, it was in that case the Constitutional Court that intervened because one of the deputies of this chamber could not be president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, that is, leave without express democratic effects. Unfortunately, we have again found ourselves with an organ of the Spanish state apparatus, in this case, the Supreme Court, which intends to intervene in these assumptions about who has or does not have the condition of a Member. If we already thought that we had seen everything, now, suddenly, the Supreme Court, in an absolutely illegal and illegal application of Article 384a of the Law, they want to suspend Members, but even so it does something that went much further, that is to transform their condition of judgment into a condition of legislator. And they intend to transfer to this Parliament the formula through which some Members or Members must be temporarily suspended. That's a shot of being in the right state. The separation of powers has ended when we have a court that does a legislative exercise. All this, unfortunately, no longer surprises us. Obviously, repression is absolutely unpleasant, and it is a qualitative leap in the repressive intervention of the courts towards this Parliament. And we would like to think – it seems to us that we are not mistaken – that the political directions of Junts per Cat, d'Esquerra Republicana, de Catalunya en Comú We can see in a very clear way which is this repressive intervention of the Spanish state apparatus against the Parliament of Catalonia. And, therefore, they see that with regard to the opinion, the second point would not have been necessary. By the way, I am referring to the opinion. What does the opinion say? First part of this: capillary, where in a clear and clear way it is said: "Opinion of the Commission of the Statute of the Deputies on the interlocutory of the Supreme Court, because there is no doubt that we are dealing, today, here. A first apartment is to approve or not the suspension of the rights of six Members of the Parliament of Catalonia in relation to the 9 July interlocutory of the Supreme Court. Obviously, we will vote because there is no suspension of your rights. And we think, moreover, that this should be the vote of any Democrat, but, arrived at this point, the one we are moving, and above all to the proposing groups of this opinion, is: with this first point, it would already have been enough, they would have enough elements not to suspend, not intervene in the condition of these six Members or Members. Unfortunately, he chose more to go to accommodate, to accommodate what gave Llarena's interview. And I literally read that "while the judicial and current situation lasts and resources are not resolved, the rights can be exercised for the members of the parliamentary group that is designated. To vote in favour of this resolution, of this part b, is also to accept the repressive intervention of the State. And we want to clarify, obviously, that we will vote against this second aside, because with a result contrary to this, they are keeping all the rights of these six Members, not being altered and continuing the will of Parliament itself because it is keeping its rights, which means that this is where we are resolving today, where we could always keep the condition of Members or Members of these five companies. Finally, we would ask the Government for maximum transparency, or, more clearly, the political forces that the Government conforms. You can't talk about permanent mobilizations and suppress them for the Squad Mosses. You can't do that! In the same way that it is not possible to speak of the need for civil disobedience and to abide by the repressive and anti-democratic actions of the Supreme Court. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.31.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the return of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.32.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament; greetings, too, to the public following this plenary session, and, in particular, to the President and members of the Catalan Civil Society Directorate, who today are following this Plenary from the Lotja. Also, this is your home. In our opinion, this debate today, in fact we have coincided with other parliamentary groups, it is an unnecessary debate, and it is unnecessary, because, in our view, the suspension that is being debated is an automatic suspension, it is because of the application of the law; in fact, I say the very resolution of the judgment, but, moreover, I believe that the facts accompany us. Because the facts tell us that these Members, the suspension of which is debated today, you debate, we do not debate it, we make it clear, that it is already effective. In fact, from the very same parliamentary servants it was suspected of retribution, and, in fact, you yourselves suspended a ple, on July 18th, because you understood that you did not have the votes sufficient and necessary to be able to pull that ple forward. From here, you bring an opinion, the considerations of which are inappropriate of a legislative chamber. Someone said it before: there's a judge who wants to make legislation. No, there's a legislature here that wants to judge. And in the document, in the opinion that you are voting on, it makes the impression that you are reading an appeal to the Supreme Court's interlocutory court, in which even you are able to pronounce – your sentence –: the application..., « the suspension is inapplicable. It's to say, say, listen to me, that's the way it is, and more so, we're subjecting it to the consideration of the plenary. It's an illustration of what the concept of separation of powers is, surely, that you have. Certainly, I understand everything that concerns Mrs. Madrenas, but we also care about other things, don't we? For example, therefore, that a parliament skipped its own laws. By the way, we've seen it too, not only do independenceists have eyes, the rest of Catalans also have eyes, and we see things too. And, for example, we have seen how in this very Parliament our own laws were skipped. The Constitution, yes, but also the Statute, our own laws. Or that a judicial committee is sequestered while exercising its functions. Which fills people in the streets to challenge the laws and to challenge the courts of justice. Or the life of the Catalans, as it happened during yesterday's day, once more. But it also passed the 3rd of October of last year. Let them fill in the mitja Catalunya against the other mitja. Is it that all these people don't have rights? The Catalans who wanted to go to work yesterday and couldn't go to work because they were busy lives, because they were carrots carved, don't they have rights? Do they just have the others right? Do you only have your rights? Is this the Catalonia you want? A Catalonia in which only you have rights, and the rest, that do not think like you, have no rights and must be subsumed in your own rights? This isn't the parent we're considering. Certainly, they start, this way, thinking that some have more rights than others, then they have to show up, and, in the end, they end up trying to assault the institutions, as happened yesterday in this Parliament. President: «............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. President, believe me, for the dignity of the institutional office you occupy, you should have resigned by now. [[Some applause.]] It's more of a trick. It has been said and has been said in various interventions: today they will not approve the suspension, but they will approve the delegation of functions. Today you can go out to the street to say: "The Parliament has rebelled against the resolution of Judge Llarena, the Supreme Court, and we have not approved the suspension. And they'll be fine. Deceptive. Deceptive, you, and deceiving the rest of the people, why will the reality be? They'll be suspicious. As they have been since that resolution was made. Now, with us, I'm not counting on these deceptions, either. Don't worry, you're already counting on the invaluable help of the independence unlockers, the independence unlockers: We can. Every time you need a hand, there it is, we can get rid of what the independents are stuck with yourself. We will not participate in your deception, the People's Party will not participate and we will not vote for this opinion. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Once we get over the debate, let's move on to the vote. Are there separate voting petitions? [[Gerard Gómez del Moral i Fuster i Albert Batet i Canadell ask to speak.]] Mr Gomez del Moral... O, Mr Batet : why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.34.0	President, we call for a separate vote on point a and point b. Also, tell the President and the Bureau that we will not exercise the delegation of vote for this vote on behalf of the Members concerned, in order not to run into a conflict of interest, following the precedent that there was in this same chamber, on the part of a Socialist Member, who also exercised it in the same way. And also, Mr President, I would ask you, in accordance with Rule 88.2 of the Rules of Procedure, to ask that the full part of the opinion which is put to the vote be read out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.35.0	All right. Mr. Moral Gomez, did you also ask for the word? For the same? [[Pause.]] Yeah. Mr. Carrizosa... [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] Listen to me! You have the word, Mr. Carrizosa. I just gave you the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.36.0	Thank you, Mr. President. To oppose the admission of a separate vote, in this case. Because it violates Article 168 of the Regulation. Rule 168 of the Rules of Procedure states that 'it is not possible to put to a separate vote what may result in a contradiction between its two terms. And this is evident in this vote. The first one says he's suspended. And the second one says to replace. If the first one says that substitution is carried out and in the end these Members are not suspended... If the first point leads to the non-suspension of Members, then what is the point of replacing them? Since there is a contradiction between the two, they would have to vote together. And then there is another reason – there is another reason – that is that the lawyer himself, Mr Muro, at the Bureau, and that is set out in the minutes adopted today, he said: "It is only to be examined by the Ple, in case it is proposed the suspension of the Members, the opinion of the Rules of Parliament. That is, if we vote separately and we do not give rise to the suspension, then we must not continue with the vote because we cannot continue to vote on something that does not call for the suspension but calls for the replacement. And lastly, saying that an unsuspended person can be replaced, and also by a simple majority, puts us all in the ridiculous situation that this Parliament, tomorrow, if you are angry with me, can replace me with another... [[relays]] , you can replace me with another without being suspended, who will already tell me how you can do this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.37.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.38.0	So, if this can't be done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.39.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.40.0	There was no separate vote. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.41.0	All right. Mr. Carrizosa, we have listened to your considerations. In any case, referring to this – in any case, referring to this – three questions. The first, this debate has been raised at the Bureau, and the possibility of a separate vote has already been made clear. Secondly, there is no contradiction of terms. And, finally, it's the president's criteria that prevails in separate votes... And, therefore, this president considers that they can vote, as they have asked and as they have always done, in a separate vote from the two points. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Mr. Pedret?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.42.0	Yes, Mr. President. For a call to the observance of the Rules of Procedure, of Rule 90. In relation to Article 168, although I have heard your arguments with respect to what Mr Carrizosa was saying, let me say that we also believe that it is incongruous enough to produce a separate vote with respect to these two points. The possible result of this, would be to claim the existence of an effect denying the existence of the cause. And there can be no effects without cause. There is a suspense, which we believe is produced automatically from the 384 bis of the Criminal Court Act, and which we believe that the Bureau should have granted how to apply, which is quite different from the fact that the Plenary does not decide whether to apply. But in any case, brought by the majority, an opinion to the Commission of the Statute of the Deputy, and brought the opinion of the Commission of the Statute of the Deputy to the plenary, it is absolutely incongruent to pretend that the existence of the suspension or not, and its effect, can be voted separately. The result of this vote could be absolutely incongruous. And we believe that it is very difficult to say that a separate vote can be taken.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.43.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. In any case, I restate myself in the points I have commented on before. [[José María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Mirror?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.44.0	Yes; thank you, President. Just, uh...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.45.0	Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.46.0	That's what I was going to say. To contradict a statement you made, that this point has been agreed in the Bureau. This has not been agreed in the Bureau because the Bureau is not the one to agree on this. And Article 168 is clear; it says that a separate vote can be requested and the President must accede to the petition if it does not contradict the original meaning. Therefore, if you believe that it does not contradict the original meaning, do not accept the request, but do not say that the Bureau has agreed, because it is simply and plainly false. That's it. And, on the other hand, it is true – and I have said this to the Secretary-General of the Bureau – that the Secretary-General has said: "It is only to be examined by the Ple in case the suspension of the Members is proposed. If the plenary agrees that they should not be suspended, because it votes negatively on item a, obviously this plenary has nothing to discuss about the possible substitution, which is not foreseen anywhere. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.47.0	All right. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.48.0	Yes, Mr. President; also, by observance of the Rules. In the first place, and also in relation to his words that for the separate vote it is his criteria that prevails. I would like to remind you of Rule 168.3 of the Rules of Procedure, in which you say that it is you who makes the proposal that can decide whether or not to vote separately. And, therefore, this must be a criterion of the Commission of the Statute of the Deputy, not of the President of the Parliament. And the second question is that I think it is quite obvious that the opinion that is being put to the vote today is based on Rule 25 of the Rules of Procedure, which actually refers to suspension. Therefore, at the time when a separate vote can be held, if it is finally decided that it is so, and in this separate vote what is strictly part of Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure, which is suspension, which is not approved, the opinion should be fully due, it could not be put to the vote a second part of the opinion which has nothing to do with the suspension which would have been rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.49.0	Mr Rodriguez, as you are also well aware, the request for a separate vote may be made by any parliamentary group; this request is heard and, if there is no contradiction, I do not observe it. [[remorse of the voice]] This separate vote has been tabled, as requested by the parliamentary group. We shall therefore proceed to the vote... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.50.0	Yes, just to say that, given that absolutely all the rules are being violated again, the procedures, the regulations, we understand that there is also something that is not voting on, we have already said, and therefore we are not going to be in the Chamber during this voting simulation that has no legal backing. [[Pause. Gerard Gómez del Moral and Fuster asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.51.0	Yes, Mr. Moral Gomez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.52.0	Yes, President, according to what you've been through, to say that it's a shame, because we would have seen, with the supplicator of Mr. Married, whether the House could vote for it or not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.53.0	Why ask me the word, Mr. Moral Gomez? Now don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.54.0	No, it was for a point of order. In the band, we could do it for contradictions, because it is really very inconsistent what was said, but, for a point of order, that was to ask for the separate vote from point b; that Mr Batet had done it too, but, go, that our group also asked for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.55.0	Mr Batet has also informed that the Members who are part of his parliamentary group will not vote in this vote for the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. So... [[Pause.]] Yeah, if you can tell, please? Because it's in the record.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.56.0	Yes, we would act the same way, and therefore the Members concerned and of whom I had the delegation will not vote on these two points either.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.57.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. Before the vote, as requested, the contents of the opinion will be read. Therefore, I pray to the secretary Campdepadrós that I can read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.58.0	Very well, Mr President, I read out the explanatory part of the opinion: « Proposal for an opinion of the Commission of the Statute of the Deputies on the interlocutory of the Supreme Court, Criminal Chamber, of 9 July 2018. First point: antecedents of fact. First. On 13 July 2018_the question of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, dated 9 July 2018, which concerns, in application of Article 384a of the Criminal Law, on the parliamentary rights of the deputies of this chamber: Carles Puigdemont i Casamajó, Oriol Junqueras i Vies, Jordi Turull i Negre, Raül Romeva i Rueda, Josep Rull i Andreu i Jordi Sánchez i Picanyol, was removed from the Register of the Parliament of Catalonia. Second. On 25 September 2018 the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia granted a transfer of the decision on the effects of the said interlocutory to the Commission of the Statute of the Deputies. Second: legal and political considerations. First. At the report of the Legal Servants of the Parliament of Catalonia of 17 July 2018 and the interpretation of Article 384a of the Criminal Court Law donated to the Constitutional Court in its Judgment 199/1987, and also in its Judgment 71/1994, the suspension provided for in the above mentioned provision only serious application to parliamentarians prosecuted and engaged in a presumed crime of rebel·lió in the event that they had served weapons of war or explosive, were terrorists or form part of armed organizations. It is public and aware that the deputies affected by the Supreme Court's interlocutory have always acted in a civic, peaceful and democratic way. They are people who are compromised with poverty and non-violence, with an unappealable path of compromise with the defence of the rights of the people, and who have systematically rejected any form of political action that might jeopardize coexistence. Moreover, the resolution of the High Court of Schleswig-Holstein of 12 July 2018, in knowing of the extradition proceedings against Carles Puigdemont and Casamajó, declared it inadmissible for what it does to the charge of rebel·lió that the Supreme Court accuses him, for the same facts, both to him and to the rest of the Members concerned. In the concrete case of the deputy Carles Puigdemont, it is given the affectionate circumstance that is found in freedom. There is therefore no other requirement for suspension. Thus the report issued by the Legal Servants highlights it, according to which – and here it literally quotes between comets – because it is possible to apply the precautionary measure established by Article 384a of the Criminal Court Law, it is strictly necessary not only that it has been decreed provisional imprisonment, but also that it has materialized through the effective entry into custody of the persons prosecuted. ........................................................................................................................................................................... For these reasons, the suspension provided for in Article 384a of the Criminal Appeal Law is not applicable to the Members to whom the interlocutory of 9 July 2018 of the Supreme Court refers. Next. Article 384a of the Criminal Court provides for the suspension of parliamentary rights as a measure of provisional character. However, this cannot be automatic in application of the above-mentioned judicial resolution; therefore, in effect, the Parliament of Catalonia enjoys parliamentary autonomy, in accordance with Article 72 of the Spanish Constitution, Articles 58 and 59 of the Statute of Catalonia, and the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, for which the possible application of the effects provided for in that legal requirement requires the intervention of competent parliamentary bodies. Parliamentary autonomy protects the institution from external interference and allows Parliament to have its own procedures to channel resolutions such as that of the Supreme Court of 9 July 2018. In this sense, Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia provides for a specific mechanism for the suspension of the rights and rights of Members of Parliament, so that this committee is responsible for examining the issue and preparing the present opinion. In accordance with previous considerations and with the principle of parliamentary autonomy – Article 72 of the Spanish Constitution and Articles 58 and 59 of the Statute of Catalonia –, the institutional position of the Chamber, the procedure provided for in Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia and the same doctrine of the Constitutional Court, the Committee on the Statute of Deputies is the body responsible for drawing up the present opinion. Third. The provisional measure provided for in the previous reference, in no case may lead to the loss of the full status of Member nor may it cause irreversible damage to the political rights of Members of Parliament. Members of Parliament are the legitimate representatives of the people of Catalonia because they have been chosen by means of elections. It is unacceptable, from the point of view of democracy, that a judge should try to deprive them and the citizens of the right to political representation, enshrined in state and international legal order. Article 23 of the Spanish Constitution, Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 25 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights protect the right to political representation, in the sense of ensuring that persons who have acceded to elected bodies are able to maintain and develop their representative functions without unlawful interference, as the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated: Judgment 23/1984, 20 of February, Fonament Juridique IV; Judgment 212 of 28 June 1993, Fonament Juridique IV; Judgment 185 of 11 October 1999, Fonament Juridique IV. The members of the Catalonian Parliament, therefore, who are affected by the interlocutory nature of this opinion, have the right to maintain their full status as Members. Wednesday. In view of this exceptional situation, as MEPs affected by the 9 July 2018 interlocutors cannot go to Parliament personally, considering that the parliamentary composition arising from the ballots on 21 December 2017 is a superior good that can be preserved, and while the resources presented for their defences are not resolved, the necessary measures are being taken to guarantee the Members' rights of use and that: the Parliament of Catalonia maintains the majority of the ballot boxes; (b) MEPs maintain the acts, and c) the votes taken in plenary are still effective. This concludes the explanatory part of the opinion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.59.0	Thank you, secretaries. Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.60.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ...president. This part of the report is not part of the opinion, it is not distributed with the documents of the plenary and it is not..., it was simply the presentation of a motion for an opinion which went to the Committee on the Statute of the Member. I don't think you should have read it. But, as it has been read, what we are asking is that it also be incorporated into the vote that will take place at these times, and, therefore, it is also published..., whether or not the vote is to be continued, whether or not the vote has been read.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.61.0	This... which has been read will, of course, be recorded in the Minutes of the Plenary, Mrs Granados. The agreement of which it is voted is always..., the operative part and not the exhibition part, and, in any case, the exhibition part has been read and will be recorded in the minutes of the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.62.0	If it is as you say, it should have been published in the Official Butllet of the Parliament of Catalonia, and this exhibition part has not been published. It is not delivered to the documentation we have on the disk and has not been published in the button. Therefore, if you decide to read an explanatory part of what was a proposal for an opinion and now what you are voting on is just the opinion, what we are asking for, feel consistent with this scenario that we are witnessing, is that it is also not just in the Minutes, but the agreement that will be produced at these times also contains the explanatory part that you have read.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.63.0	The exhibition part, as you know, Mrs Granados, is not the vote, but the vote is the operative part. And, in any case, it will consist... – I insist on this – it will consist in the minutes, as read in this plenary, just as it did in the opinion of the parliamentary groups to the committee. We've already called a vote. Let's get to the vote. I remember voting separately, so it was asked, the point to and the point b. Before we proceed to the vote, the memories that we have a new voting system... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The voting system is as always, which changes is the device. But in any case, they always know how to vote, because, in fact, we vote as usual. What they did see is that only the two-second countdown for the vote and, finally, the final result will come out on the screen. So let us now proceed to the vote on point 1. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Forgive me, excuse me; it must be the novelty of the system. [[Pause.]] Right now. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Are there any deputies who didn't work the system? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am. Counselor, say... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It didn't work. Let's give it a minute, a moment, and get back to the vote, and look what's happened. [[Long break.]] Listen, please, MPs, MPs, we'll go back to voting since it hasn't just worked on a few escons. You must bear in mind that you must mark as always first the presence button, turn on or not turn on the light, okay? , always mark the presence button first and after the feeling of the vote, as always, regardless of whether the light starts or not. We will then review this question, but now they vote as they have always done. Okay? [[Pause.]] Let's start the vote again. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] One moment – one moment. Calm down. Come back, prove it again. The vote begins. The result of the vote... [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please. The result of the vote on this point in the opinion was rejected by 71 votes against, with no votes in favour, no abstentions and 17 votes in favour, but with no votes. Therefore, this point is rejected as it has not met the absolute majority required by Article 25 of the Rules. Let us now proceed to the vote on the second point, on the second point, on the second point, on the second point, on the second point, on the second point, on the second point, on the second The memories we're doing as we've just done. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Did you press the presence button? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Pardon me, honourable Member, but it is not clear that I have pressed the presence button, if it would not be marked. In any case, I insist that we review the system. He has to be patient today, obviously, because it's the first day. [[Widow's remorse.]] Anyway, I insist we check it out. In any case... [[remorse of the voice]] - And please! – the result of the vote: there are 66 votes in favour, 4 against, no abstentions and 17 abstentions but no votes. Therefore, as a result of the simple majority, this second point of the opinion is approved, this point b. There's no more fear of dealing. The session's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.64.0	Good afternoon. Quiet, and please. Let's start the session. [[Discussion on the general political orientation of the Government]] [[255-00003/12]] The only point on the agenda is the debate on the general political direction of the Government. This debate will be governed by Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the sequence adopted for the Board of Spokespersons on 28 September. So, in the first place, the very honorable Mr Quim Torra, President of the Generality, has the word. President, when you say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.65.0	President, deputies and deputies, very late at all. I want to start my intervention by talking about what happened to this anniversary of the first October referendum. It's been a long week's head and an intense diluns. Hundreds of thousands of citizens have filled the streets, the squares, the colleges, in acts called to celebrate a great victory, the victory of democracy, that date of the first of October, when democracy won the victory of violence, intimidation, threat and persecution. A very important part of the citizenry decided, now a year ago, that it would take control of its future, it took over. It was a democratic victory as few have been in our recent history. We lived a slave of collective intelligence, self-organization and fraternity. Unfortunately, the celebration of that slave of citizenship and determination was seen bad this week and yesterday for some parties that are represented to us and that I trust are never repeated again. And it's in this sense that I need to make a serious self-criticism. The path of independence is not that, all the contrary. The first of October was made face-to-face discovery, because in the exercise of self-determination we have nothing to store. That's how we beat an authoritarian state. We must demand and demand that the mobilization we need for the civil, social and national rights of Catalans continue not to be violent, radically non-violent. Since we don't have to lower the intensity of the mobilization at any time, it's clear that we don't. I want to share, today and here, a demand of more political intelligence to everyone, of more responsibility to everyone, of more self-criticism to everyone; and to us, to the Government of Catalonia, the first, whenever possible. And in this sense the announcement that Councilman Miquel Buch will appear, on his own motion, to give explanations to the chamber, a petition that will be registered this very late. But we also need more determination to finish the work we started a year ago. Political leaders need to explain more, and better; it's obvious. It has become clear that part of the people do not buy our political action, and this is our responsibility, and my first place. That we speak more clearly and that everyone can share the path drawn to make effective the republic voted on the first of October and proclaimed on the 27th of October. It is necessary to return to unitary work and that this look at itself constantly. The unit, the building experiment and non-violent action have been the key to success so far. They can't do it any other way. The first of October was possible for a chain of complicitys that, if we can't get it back now, it will be very difficult for us to win. And I want us to win. However, it is clear that the patience of Catalans is not infinite. The margin of President Pedro Sánchez is over; today President Sánchez himself has made a message saying that ‘I must not put political normalization at risk, encouraging radicals to set up democratic institutions. I want to remind President Sánchez that political normalization is at risk by his Government, keeping political prisoners and exiles and preventing the right to self-determination of Catalans. Well, that's enough. [[Greetings.]] That President Sánchez should make concrete and courageous commitments. Too many threats, too many vagaries. It is now that decisions are taken and concrete proposals are made. We've been more patient than we needed from the citizen who defended our democracy a year ago; we've been very patient with the 155th tripartite, after everything he's done to us. I insist, we have political prisoners, exiles and thousands of citizens prosecuted for having defended that Catalonia was to vote. Patience, I repeat, is not infinite. And also, again, we offer Pedro Sánchez the opportunity to make a proposal on how to facilitate the exercise of the right to self-determination in Catalonia, with concreteness and clarity. When you want, we can get together to negotiate. Today, I will send a letter to the President of the Spanish Government, prompting him to meet us as soon as possible. But I don't want to hear about the dialog again if it doesn't work out, and I don't want to hear it clearly. If there is no such proposal to exercise self-determination in an agreed manner, linking and recognizing internationally from the table before November, independence will not guarantee any degree of stability at the Congress of Deputies to Mr Pedro Sánchez. [[Widow's remorse.]] I repeat, independence cannot guarantee any stability at the Congress of Deputies to Mr Pedro Sánchez. The Spanish State and its authoritarian and repressive drift are the most responsible for the tension in the streets. All of us are interested in resolving a political conflict that should never have occurred in these terms of imprisonment, exile, judicial persecution and police rape. We all have our images a year ago, we all have our prisoners and exiles present every day. What you think is that all this is going to take us back is that he doesn't know the determination and the strength that gives us to know that they're always on the side of democracy, freedom and pau. This weekend and during yesterday's day, we were able to prove two things. People are, there's a majority of society that wants to build a future of freedom and that won't allow sleep to get messed up; we work hard to finish the job we started. And another thing: we will not wait forever; in fact, we do not wait, we move forward to make the Republic effective while offering the Spanish State an opportunity to reconnect on the path of democracy, negotiation and freedom. So far we have not seen any clear proposals from the 155 tripartite, but we offer them to abandon unilaterality exercised with repression, threats, prosecution, police rape, imprisonment and exile. Now, the decision is yours; we move forward without further delay. I also take advantage of the fact that the debate coincides with the majority decision of the House to ensure that the citizens' vote is respected and, therefore, their rights as voters, in the face of a judicious attempt to kill – the reputation of which, like that of the General Council of the Judiciary, is zero in Europe – to pervert the outcome of 21 December and the composition of the representatives of this Parliament. We are prepared to defend the sovereignty of Parliament and the people of Catalonia, always and in any circumstance; that no one has any doubt about it. And I'm sorry, I'm deeply sorry that in the democratic defense of Parliament's sovereignty we don't all follow the deputies of this chamber. It's not a question of ideology or a political project. In respect for our institutions we must all be, all the Democrats in this country, and we cannot allow a judge to invent formulas that are not part of the legal order to subvert the composition of the chosen parliament in some elections. There's no way to bring politics to justice. There's enough to silence and distort the voice of the citizens of this country. [[Greetings.]] The independent majority of this Parliament has a mandate to implement, a mandate that always comes out of the ballot box, from the vote of the citizens, from their conscience of men and women free, but that has often been expressed under intolerable threats. It is a republican mandate that was born the first of October, that politically it was realized the 27 and that it was ratified electorally on the 21st of December, in some elections in which not all the candidatures were able to count with the same conditions. Let's talk about some elections that left an independent majority in this chamber, which was made with successful candidates and exile, with candidates under the prosecution and with full vigilance that posed the fundamental right of expression in question. A campaign in which they banned colors, chased words and silenced you. And with all these elements against the independence majority got the support of the citizenry in order to form government. And what happened next? That, dissatisfied with the result that the citizens had donated, the 155 block and the State's apparatus were dedicated to preventing the electoral mandate from being carried out in the investiture of President Puigdemont and it was prohibited that Jordi Sánchez would attend his investiture debate, and then candidate Turull would take up his investiture debate, an indignity that would engulf all the world's parliaments. How can citizens be trusted in a state that uses courts to win the ballot box? As I was saying, we have a warrant and we want to complete it. How do we want to do it? The way in which we find it most logical to do things in the 21st century Europe: from legality to the will of the majority of citizens, abandoning the dialogue and scrupulous respect to the right to decide on peoples, that is, the right of self-determination of nations, the just cause of independence. It is this opportunity not to lose the train of history to what we offered to the Spanish State then, when its government changed color. And, as I said, let's wait for an answer that is at the height of the circumstances. All Catalans perfectly remember the "support of Spanish socialism" a few years ago. We still remember today the deception of that reform, which was voted in a self-government referendum, as it is said today, and which then remained in the skin and bones. The solution is not a new statute. And I will never give up fulfilling the mandate of the first October, because the right of self-determination does not belong to me, nor to my Government, nor to the political representatives of this chamber; it belongs to the people of Catalonia, and exercising it is an inalienable right that you have. This – this – is the question. And this government is committed not to suspend itself until the mandate of the referendum is fulfilled, with all the consequences. We offer the Spanish State the opportunity to approve more advanced democracies, such as Canada or the British. The same President Sánchez had occasion to know him firsthand in his trip to Canada, and to see that references, yes, can be won or lost, but democracy is always strengthened, and societies, too. That's why he made the reference a year ago, because we don't understand a better way to solve the doubts or division of opinions that are voting, like adult and responsible people. And it's sad, even today, to see that there are parties that consider that our society is not prepared to decide its future; sad, because they show no confidence in the maturity of our society. We have a clear mandate for this reference a year ago, and only a given, binding and internationally recognized reference can renew that mandate. This, I insist, is the opportunity that the government of Pedro Sánchez has to renew the authoritarian and repressive drift where the Spanish of Mariano Rajoy, the Popular Party and Ciutadans, and also the PSOE, which was added to the alliance of 155. Do you have to be the different PSOE now? Do you really want to get out of the 155 block or do you want to stay there? We shall see, however, as I said before, we need clear answers soon. We wait for them, we wait for them on the path of democracy and respect for the will of the citizenry; but, if not, we will make our way. For all that I have just said, we are prepared to deploy a government action aimed at carrying out the political mandate of the reference of a year ago, and, consequently, we are putting on the march, already, some instruments of construction of a more just country, able to offer more welfare, economically dynamic, creator of opportunities and that guarantees the rights and freedoms conquered in many shared struggles, as he likes to say to the yearbook friend Jordi Cuixart, over the years. We have put all our attention to civil, social and national rights, because we believe that this is where the game is played, in defense of the civil, social and national rights of the country. Just yesterday we appointed the director of the Civil and Political Rights Office, who will stand by to provide support to the citizen who sees these rights violated. We will also create the next few days, in the middle of this month of October, the council that will push the civic, social and constituent forum, that will set aside a city debate that will serve to lay the foundations of the foundational architecture of the republic. It will be a forum with people of prestige and a long career path, to which we will invite all the citizens to make a participatory, useful and quality process. This council will have the task of putting a debate on the basis of what the Catalan Republic should be like. We announced this legislature as a step from restitution to constitution, and that is what we are prepared to do, conditional on the outcome of the judicial process against our democratic leaders in prison and exile. Thus, once we have completed the institutional recovery phase, we are making steady progress towards the drafting of the debate. Independence is not a fem to change a flag, a color or the name of our State; the fem because we know that it is the best way to dispose of the tools and favorable conditions to serve the citizenry in terms of welfare, economic dynamism, generation of opportunities and social justice. As you know, I also called for a march for the country's civil, social and national rights and foreign activities, to extend the cry for freedom, justice and democracy that we were able to see decisively last September 11th. This country has been on the march for years, but now we need to concentrate our efforts to make it known that we will not accept an unfair judgment, without a sense of purpose, or feelings that are not absolved. We're the ones who want justice, and that's why we went looking for him outside, seeing that there would only be revenge here. We demand respect for our rights, because we have every right to have all the rights that any other European city likes. That is why we call on this permanent mobilization, yes, because we cannot normalize the very serious political situation that the country has seen. In applying this republican mandate, we have also proposed to recover the contents of the social laws that have been suspended by the Constitutional Court at the request of the Spanish Government; we have begun to do so. The Law of Universalization of Health Care is already fully in force. We are preparing the recovery of the contents of urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and energy poverty, and of measures to protect the right to housing of persons at risk of residential exclusion. At a time when we negotiate the withdrawal of resources against laws such as the tax on empty dwellings, the law on climate change, the tax on non-productive acts of legal persons, among others. It is a political compromise that has voted and acquired this Parliament, and it is a commitment of conscience with the objective of building a republic of rights and freedoms, dignity and social justice. A socialist government in Spain has the power to withdraw the challenges of laws absolutely designed to improve the quality of life of the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans. We are talking about laws that have been approved with much majority support from this Parliament, in many cases with the support of the same Socialist Party. Now, the decision is at your hands; now we will see the degree of consistency of your words and promises. And if the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez does not withdraw the resources against these social laws, we will once again approve them within the terms of the resolution adopted by this Parliament; that is, the disembarkation of encany. Finally, and in this first block, the announcement that yesterday, on the anniversary of the first October, I gave instructions because the Generality is a person as a popular accusation in all open judicial cases of persecution of independence and freedom of expression. We cannot allow citizens and democratic representatives to be persecuted for defending democracy, the right to vote or to think about how the majority of Catalan society does it. So, I'm summarizing this first block. First, we start with the self-determination referendum of the first of October and the political declaration of independence of the 27th. According to, we offer, we offer and will always offer negotiations to the Spanish State, and to the international community, directly, to activate a mediation in case the proposal of an agreed, linked and internationally recognized referendum, works the way of the solution to the current very serious political crisis. Third, after the restoration phase, incomplete because the return of President Puigdemont is missing, we begin the phase that must lead us to a Catalan constitution project conditioned on the judicial sentences against our political prisoners and exiles, as I will explain at the end of this intervention. And, therefore, we set aside, first of all, the Office of Civil and Political Rights; secondly, from the mid-October onwards, the constitution of the council of the civic, social and constituent forum; thirdly, a march for our civil, social and national rights; fourthly, a clear timetable for the implementation of the recovery of social laws; fifthly, the Generality will be a popular accusation in all the causes of liberal political persecution and, if so, we will not guarantee any support for the Government of Pedro Sánchez from November if there is no proposal for a political dialogue on Catalonia, that is, on self-determination. And before I entered the government plan, and as I committed myself, I went on to explain to them, briefly, a first advance of the report that has been made on the consequences of the application of Article 155, as well as the work done so far for the government that I chair. I want to focus on the impact that the application of 155_has had on public services, on the band, on the impact it has had on this chamber, on the government, etc. Already the advances that impact is desolating, we understand; now we can see that. Many public workers have denounced it and many have addressed me directly to explain to me how they have lived from delays, inaction, overburden and, above all, the unworthy treatment given to a centenary institution such as the Generalitat de Catalunya. Let me, therefore, before I follow, give a sincere and heartfelt thanks to the responsibility, professionalism and dedication of public servants, thanks to whom with all certainty it was possible to cushion the gravity of the effects of 155. The dismissal of the Government of the Generality and its President affected the governance of this institution and its institutional representation. This prevented, for example, allegations or proceedings against fourteen competing disputes between the Government of the Generality and the Government of the State. Ras and short, it has prevented the generality from defending, for example, laws that affect the welfare of our citizens; laws that affect our economy; laws that position us as the country ahead in a global world, among others. Among the most obvious impacts: the cessation of 242 people, the closure of the delegations of the Government of the outside for the suppression of the Diplomat. With regard to the closure of government delegations abroad, more than the obvious damage and the most painful damage to the people who worked there, its cost was €1.75_million. It meant that the 300,000 Catalans residing in the foreign language lost the services offered to them by these delegations, such as the issuing of digital certificates, Idcat, Idcat mobile, in order to be able to relate electronically to the administrations. It is clear that 155 affected the normal development of strategic programs, investments, purchases, services, sub-administrations, grants, agreements with other institutions. And it did so in a very transversal way and with a direct impact on the normal performance of public services. I don't want to overwhelm them with extensive listings but I would highlight 25_million_i_mig of Feder's euros affected by the delays and slowing down of investments; the paralysing of the management of the Strategic Plan of Aviation 2030 and which now forces us to bid again for its report, or the delays in the planning and execution of the Plan of Continuing Teacher Training that has affected sixty_ thousand teachers. Yes, they've felt it well, sixty thousand teachers affected. To this situation it is necessary to add the economic control by the State, started at the end of 2015 with a progressive implementation and that it covered the final stage from 15 September 2017, through the non-availability of credit, the retention of the generality's own resources and the indirect payment of invoices by the ministry, the blocking of the generality's bank accounts and the entire public sector or the declaration responsible for the interveners at the time of the award of contracts. This added control implied, for example, that civic and community action equipment and childcare residences, and large and disabled people's residences, were found in many cases without liquidity, as it was necessary to make responsible statements for any expenditure. Or the commitment to the processing of more than three hundred agreed in the fields of work, social matters and families for a value of almost 100_million euros, or the additions to the contracts with local authorities in the field of social services that remained pending. In some cases, the impact is much harder because it meant the loss of the 2017 budget without the possibility to incorporate it into 2018. All of them, institutions of the weakest sector in our country, of the third sector, just where we have to age, where we have to take care of the people who need it the most. The arrival of the 155, therefore, are lost months, lost time, better times, poor public resources and lost opportunity. This partial information, which I have carried out today, will soon have all the details through the corresponding committee in the information that will be provided in this chamber. But the political action of the Republic's implementation cannot make us forget that we are ruling for the people with the media we have. One of the first objectives of the new government was to restore the government and the departments to the service of the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans. It was urgent to do so to prevent the consequences, which I have just explained, of 155 being even harder. Since the formation of the Government, exactly one hundred and twenty-two days have passed, if we count the Augustus, we still don't carry a hundred. In this short period, and taking into account the complex starting situation – a very complex starting situation – this government has approved four bills of law, two decrees of law, new decrees and, at this time, more decrees are in advanced processing. It's not too much work, this one that has to be done in a context, I insist, of an absolute gravity. This, what follows, is a small selection of decisions taken and girls' performances during this period of just over a hundred days. Office of the President. We have allocated 20,4_million euros to the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, in order to be able to face the change of criteria of the Spanish tax agency for what it does to the deduction of VAT ; yes, we are interested in the fact that the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans can continue to pull in front of its pocket and that it can do it with all the professionalism that it has always exercised. We have approved the Pla Director of Training in Gender Equity, to normalize the perspective of gender in public policies, and we have called for grants for entities that promote effective equality between women and men for a value of €800,000. Economy i Hisenda. We have awarded, through public sub-award, twenty-i-sets of outstanding inheritances for an import of 4_million euros. Three million of these will be allocated to the purchase of social housing, and there is a willingness to allocate the remaining million euros to social housing policies as well. By means of the Catalan Institute of Finance, we have opened financing to 746 companies for an import of 213_million euros. 97_percent of these finance companies have been peppers and entrepreneurs, the main segments of the Catalan economy. External action. We have restored delegations to the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany, Italy, France, Switzerland and the United States of America. We have put an end to the liquidation mandate of the Council of Public Diplomacy of Catalonia, the Diplomacy, which the Council of Ministers of the Spanish Government had granted under the application of Article 155, and we have restarted all the procedures to return to full and normal operation. Teaching. We have allocated EUR 13_million to the contract of the monitoring service and EUR 4.2_million to the contract of specialized personnel to give support to students with special educational needs. We have incorporated, for this course, eight hundred us teachers. The innovation programme "Active Vocational Training", which aims to promote skills in vocational training based on collaborative learning, has been created. Culture............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The preliminary draft law of the audiovisual tax has been reworded and the National Reading Plan has begun to be implemented. Hey. The work of the new hospital in Viladecans has begun, with an inversion of more than 60 million euros. The performance will triple the current area of the centre to improve the quality and resolution of hospital care. Territories and Sustainability. We have allocated EUR 250_million to the construction and purchase of social housing; one line of financing, EUR 110_million, because joint ventures, non-profit entities and the third sector include social housing; the other line, EUR 140_million, is intended for promoters and will be used to expand the social housing stock with the construction of more than a thousand new housing units. The year 2018 the Incasòl will allocate 30_million euros to buy flats for the public park of lloger. Work, social afers and families. We have allocated more than EUR 42 million for the guaranteed income of citizens. The local world has been endowed with 230_million euros in terms of social services and equality policies. An additional EUR 10 million has been allocated to assist the massive arrival of young non-accompanied migrants. And I'd like to insist on this point, and thank the councillor, and also the Councillor of the Interior, for his efforts to resolve an exceptional situation. It is expected that during this year 2018 more than 3,200 minors will arrive not accompanied to Catalonia. It has allocated EUR 1 million to grants to social entities to hire persons who are found in settlement proceedings. Company and Knowledge. A study has been carried out on the number of companies encouraged by the decree of the Spanish Government to leave Catalonia, with the results that all of you know, and the third call for the Knowledge Industry program, with a endowment of 3 million euros, and the call for 27 new positions of teaching staff and researcher in the March of the Pla Serra Húnter. Digital and Public Administration Policies. We have implemented blockchain technology to the public administration activity. The government has returned to the patronship of Mobile after 155, with the will to boost the capital of Barcelona as a technological hub. And we ran four bids for an estimated value of almost 900_million euros, with the intention of generating opportunities in the growing ICT industry sector of Catalonia, and promoting competition and innovation in the sector. Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food. Among others, the Catalonian Maritime Strategy and a new decree on the governance of professional fishing, among many other issues, have been approved. I insist, all these are concrete actions, they are concrete measures approved for this government, but I think it was important today to put them on the table because, I insist, at the expense of the republic mandate, this government, and government from the first day. I wanted to explain to you some of the actions that this government has done in these first few months, in the march of restitution. But this country has to raise the blind every morning, and that's why last week we approved the government plan for the legislature, which at these times I am willing to comment with all of you. We want to build a similar state, because we want a cohesive country, with rights and opportunities for everyone, that has a clean economy, responsible and sustainable to serve a more just, free and democratic society. In short, a better and freer country, with a clear vocation of being an open country to the world. Before, however, let me explain to them the principles and values that impregnate it. The principles are freedom, culture and talent. They are cross-cutting principles, and that is why we will make a further effort to enhance the cross-cutting of policies and government action. In just one example, of the need for this cross-sectional treatment, the full attention to large or complex people, the fight against food mismanagement, the management of emergencies, culture, primary care and community health, the fight against the poor, the bet for the green and circular economy, the clock reform or the eradication of male violence. We will also do so on the basis of great consensus, with far-reaching agreements that allow us to advance towards common objectives, with a shared leadership between administrations, businesses, civil society, in the local areas and sectors affected. That's why in a multitude of areas we would make every effort to approve pacts, agreements and plans in this direction. All the action of the Government, in the end, is directed towards the absolutation of a just, inclusive and cohesive society, considering the universe of 7_million_i_mig free people and with all and each of their needs at the center of our concern. From here the defense of universal access to salvation, the guaranteed income of citizens, the development of the Catalan Agency of Social Protection, the offer of more and more social housing or so many other measures and actions that precisely pursue a better social justice. But the approach to these inequalities also involves a need to look at all policies, and in this area we have a good battery of actions to deploy and a long way to go. The Strategic Platform for Gender Equity Policies, the National Pact against Male Violence or the Platform for Gender Equity in Health 2019-2021 are just a few examples of this clear cross-cutting vocation and of imbue-ho all of equality between women and men. We also clearly value the promotion of learning, talent, creativity and innovation with a strong and categorical defence of the Catalan school model, and an impulse to education at all stages of life. Preparing for the future today is learning, it's training, it's stimulating talent, but it's also not staying back, not staying out of digital innovation, as the element that is unquestionably transforming all the spheres of life. Hence the importance this government is giving to digital policies. Another value is what you have to see with prosperity. This supposes a competitive company and some infrastructure that you serve, as well as an adventure to the green and circular economy. From here, the import of the deployment of the National Pact for Industry, the drafting of a norm that directs the conjunction of the Catalan territory, putting in value also its specificities and singularities, or the creation of new instruments financed for the productive economy, among other activities. And what we are clear – and we are very clear – is that we want to be present in the world, with your own eyes, and we want to export not just products, fruit or services, all that is appropriate and natural to any economy that is open to the world; we want to export culture, we want to export pau, we want to export human rights and we want to be part of all the challenges that are posed on a global scale. Expressed, therefore, the principles and values that inspire this plan of government, some of the main actions that we have planned in the various axes of work, which are four, and how I fear I would not have time to detail them the ninety-three objectives and more than a thousand concrete measures that they contain, even though it would be very interesting, I will speak to them of the most relevant. First, a cohesive country with rights and opportunities for everyone. We defend a proper educational model, and the best of the current system. This goes on to interpret the school the country needs and to have a clear and decided project. The Catalan school is inclusive and inclusive, it is a tool of social and territorial cohesion of the highest order and it is an indisputable engine of personal and cultural progress. According to these principles, we are working from the first day for the acquittal of four great objectives. First: the educational success, i.e., the sum of academic success, personal success and social success of the student, mediating the development of the capacities of all and each of our students as a guarantee of quality, equity and, I repeat, social cohesion. Second: the methodological and didactic improvement to acquire the basic skills that must contribute to personal development in the 21st century school. Third: the promotion of a truly inclusive education system that can accommodate the diversity of the educational needs of all the students, of excellence, that guarantees equal opportunities and inclusiveness, that prioritizes the best of educational outcomes, and in which vocational training is a key element in the competitiveness of the education system. And four: the implementation of a country education project, with a public service vocation, loyal to Republican values and compromised with the transformative power that education can have to create critical and free citizens. In the field of Bressol schools, we will not update the map, and we will assess the margins of what we have for its financing, in correspondence with the joints and families. In short, we will pursue every effort for an education model committed to the student, to the teacher and to families, where the student is the object and subject of education; the teacher, the guarantee of school success, and the centre, the foundation of the system. You know there's a phrase I'm used to saying, and I'd like to repeat it again today: this government's support for our country's educational community is total; that our teachers and our teachers feel that they have the government at their side. There's only one thing more important than our schools, and they're the masters of our schools. Another of the main instruments of cohesion is the National Health System. We will continue to work to make the National Health System a universal and equitable system, in line with the law that voted for this Parliament in the later legislature and that the central government resorted to during 155. At a time when 80 per cent of the determinants of people's salvation depend on social, cultural, economic and gender factors, a look that encompasses all these concepts and affects all public policies is indispensable. I had the opportunity to visit the Mine CAP. It is precisely this that we propose, in a hospital centre, that there is also the possibility already to have social services that already detect if there is any problem and can already start working from the same hospital centre. Another threat to the right of salvation is the iniquities caused by territories, socioeconomic conditions, ethnicity and, especially, by the genus. We want to put the focus on some inequalities that affect 50 percent of the population, women; improving their health is improving everyone's. That's why we've started designing the strategy for gender equity in the field of health, and they're on the edge of better processes of addressing diseases that they have as a woman, like the endometriosis care model. It is not possible to fight against inequalities without public health policies that allow them to address their determinants. That is why we need to get the Public Health Agency back, which is what will happen when Parliament approves, if that is what you think is appropriate, the bill you already have in progress. And, on the other hand, and for that, the stake for the inter-departmental and cross-sectoral public health plan. The health system is also a generator of wealth and progress and cannot be seen only as a source of expense. The high level of biomedical research in our country, in addition to contributing to the better health of the population, is an opportunity for the development of innovation. Social issues. As we understand from the government, this one, the government, has to take over the people. Their ultimate goal is to dechronize situations of vulnerability and guarantee freedom so that each person can complete his or her vital project, regardless of situations of vulnerability in which he or she may find himself or herself. And this means putting more emphasis on preventive social policies, from childhood policies by moving forward, to avoiding social emergence. Basic social services and preventive social tools, non-residential care services must be the objective of strengthening social policies. And this means that we will also prioritise the community dimension, social interventions at kilometre zero, with the capillaryness that makes it possible to reach every raccoon in the country and taking advantage of the social fabric as the proximity network. We are working on a battery of laws for the adaptation of Catalan society to aging; for personal autonomy; to focus on prevention; the creation of inclusive contexts and the support model for large people in a dependent situation. A pact, in my opinion, one of the main objectives of this government, a national pact for people with disabilities, because everyone in this country has the right to launch independently and free their life plan. Priority of investment in policies that guarantee the rights of children and adolescents. The deployment of the Catalan Social Protection Agency and we will also strengthen the Catalan model of associationism and volunteering, continuing to drive policies that generate opportunities for our youth. In this sense, I want to announce the creation of the Secretary of Children, Adolescents and Youth, so as to give them a better and greater institutional space in Catalonia. Habitat. Housing is a fundamental right, which is why it is a top priority for this government and we will address it, according to strategic planning based on institutional collaboration and shared work between the public and private sectors. One of the first measures, as he has said, that this Government has brought to completion was precisely the approval of two lines of loans with preferential conditions, worth 250_million euros, to build or acquire social habitat, following work to increase the public housing stock destined for social logger, promoting new work, but also supporting measures that favor greater stability and duration of contracts and enhancing the logger that is available and acting before the emergence of the denunciations. For this reason, it is vital to recover the housing regulations that guarantee the right to replenish people. In this sense, we will also give momentum to the Catalan strategy of comprehensive approach to sensellarism and we will continue to fight against the poor energy to avoid that no family is left without water, light or gas. Culture. He will advise, this culture that sometimes there is a small amount of fear and that this Government wants it to be the centre of action, because it has always been so, because Catalanism has based and built its political project in culture and, so far, in the 21st century, of all ways, we see it, culture, as a social right, as education or sanitation and, so far, give it, to culture, this great transforming power and social cohesion that we want to take advantage of. And, in this sense, the Catalan language has been and will continue to be a common and transversal identity factor, an element that helps us to be equal citizens, with the same rights and rights, and the same opportunities, while at the same time diverse in our origins. Therefore, we will strengthen the stake for the Catalan and also for the Aranese, as in their own languages, with the utmost respect for the various cultures of our society, which is and we want plural. We bet for the forge of an informed citizenry, with critical, empathetic, civic, dignified and democratic thinking. Culture makes us better and, therefore, we want everyone to participate in it. In this sense, we will promote the basic culture, the culture of proximity that is not in the barrels, starting from thousands of associations and entities, and which have retreated from the territory. Libraries. The basic equipment, the encouragement of participation, are among our priorities. Where there is a library, there, society is a little better. Where there is more culture, there society is a little better and, therefore, I insist, that culture must be, no doubt, one of the great priorities of this government. And this symbolic and social dimension of culture too can place it in a central area of the cross-cutting policies of all departments, only so, if it is effectively inter-departmental, we will get rid of the society that we want and that we want. I'm following that. A bright economy, responsible for the sustainable. One of the values that permeates our action is that of prosperity, with a quality job market, competitive infrastructure and an advent to the green and circular economy. There is no better preventive policy than a quality job market. From here, the firm will of this Government to promote active and comprehensive employment policies, empowering people at risk of long-term and out-of-work people, using concertation and inspection tools to ensure a level of entry worthy of any person who participates and strengthens the vocational guidance and training system as an instrument to strengthen the empowerment of young people seeking the first job and adults who need to reorient their working life. The deployment of the instruments for guaranteed citizenship income is a peremptory challenge, as far as you know, but we also need to update the Youth Employment Plan, as well as promoting socially responsible contracting and establishing a system for the ongoing evaluation of employment policies. In the economic sphere, the objective is to create the framework for the absolvement of economic sovereignty, to seek the maximum social return to public resources, to promote equal opportunities with social assumptions and a more equitable and efficient tax and enforcement system, and to promote a tax administration referring to the fight against tax fraud and the provision of services. Moreover, we would consolidate the deployment of the tax administration model, characterized by services of proximity and quality to the citizenry. Knowledge and innovation. The aspiration of a better, digitally intelligent country with a solid knowledge economy and with more and better opportunities for everyone has in one of its most decisive engines the system of universities and research. Talent, science, technology and innovation generate benefits that citizenship rep in the form of quality of life, health, quality of life and social and territorial cohesion. We will strengthen the foundations of our knowledge system, through a national pact for the knowledge society, agreed with all the agents involved, which establishes a model that is committed to quality and equity, and that guarantees access to everyone, as well as the foundations of a new model of university funding that reflects the country's commitment with them, with their universities, and seeks to ensure future and progress. Right here, in the area of research centres, we want to provide them with a solid legal framework, which allows the sustainability of the model, so as to capture and retain the best talent that this country has. Company and product weaving. According to the main objective of the National Pact for Industry, it is necessary to promote industry as the central axis of the Catalan economy, an industry that accounts for almost 20_percent of GDP. Deploying the National Pact for Industry, agreed with all economic, social and parliamentary actors, we will promote in all areas – business, business, energy and tourism – the entrepreneurial ecosystem, generating opportunities for business growth, creating decent, skilled and well-paid jobs, so as to reduce the number of jobs. At the same time, and for what it does to energy, the National Pact for the Energy Transition of Catalonia is the result of a great political and social consensus to advance towards a new, cleaner, democratic, distributed and sustainable energy model. Territorial cohesion and the rural world. Territorial planning policies must promote social and territorial cohesion in order to promote the economic development and quality of life of people in the country. If we say that all people must be able to develop their vital project, all people must also be able to develop their vital project within the territory, it is the only way to have a sustainable country. But the unequal distribution of the people of Catalonia at the conjunct of the territory makes it necessary, precisely, to emphasize..., to emphasize – I do not manage to say it yet correctly –, to emphasize a conjunct of actions, in order to enhance the rural world, with the aim of facilitating the settlement, to promote the continuity and the rejuvenation of the farms. The Law of Territories, the Law of the Mountanya, the Law of Ordination of the coast must set up the conjunction of the Catalan territory, putting in value its specificities and singularities. This territorial balance will also be achieved through digital infrastructure and smart cities. Infrastructures and mobility. To weave the country, to relate it, to activate it, to make it progress requires a good equipping of infrastructures. The strategic axes in this area are: to improve public transport in its two-dimensional, social, but also political, dimension of better quality of the air and the fight against climate change. Facilitate the development of the economy and the generation of opportunities and work places. Providing the country with more efficient, reliable and quality infrastructure and mobility services. Evolving towards a 4.0 mobility, concretely into legislative, normative, planning and financing instruments. Promote innovation, modernisation and digitisation of infrastructure and mobility services for people and goods. These axes are to be concrete in lines such as the project of vinyeta, the financing of the works of completion of line 9 and the inn in service of the whole conjunction of line 9-line 10, the development of the project of the T-Mobility and tariff integration to all Catalonia, the development and consolidation of better of the great axes of the road network, including the Mediterranean Corridor, and the projects of better public transport, among others. Sustainability. Some of the actions planned in the field of sustainability and the environment are the following: sanitation, food and media, supporting locals with different lines of subsidies and the creation of the new public ATL. Minimization in the generation of residues and the empowerment of its reuse. Prevention and control of activities to reduce environmental impact, combat climate change and improve air quality. Third axis. Government is open to institutional quality. Catalonia is an active society in which the citizenry participates both in local and concrete projects on a small scale as in the great global and country reptes, we see it every day – we have seen it for the last few years. All this energy defines us as a cohesive, focused and strong country, and encourages us to work in civic participation in all its forms: representative, deliberative and direct. Digital policies and technologies are providing a profound and definite transformation into virtually all areas of the project. Catalonia must be a country that connects physical infrastructure, digital infrastructure, social infrastructure and economic infrastructure to take advantage of the country's collective intelligence, which is its most important asset. The way we govern will count much more on people and, therefore, it is necessary to take them technically and digitally. The basis for this takeover is because citizens have a digital identity that guarantees security, privacy and transparency with advanced digital services, benefiting society and its governments and strengthening democracy. Catalonia has become one of Europe's leading digital innovation hubs, driving us models adapted to advanced digital technologies. And so we want to follow, betting on strategic areas such as big data, 5G, blockchain, drones, printing trade, robotics, computer viewing, artificial intelligence or cybersecurity. We have set ourselves as priorities to bring the open network of the Government of Catalonia to all the capitals of the region in the year 2020, as well as the impulse, in collaboration with the remaining Catalan administrations and mobile telephone operators, of the better of the 3G and 4G coverage, and the preparation of the 5G deployment. We want to turn Catalonia into a smart nation of international reference. Equality between women and men. Defending freedom goes through an equal society where women and men have equal treatment, equal opportunities and equal rights, and where the chakra of male violence disappears. While there is a single victim of male violence, this will not be a fair society. That's why we'll prioritize a national pact against male violence and work for an equal society that wants to reverse the patriarchal and privilege model imposed at the length of history. During the past year there have been very severe democratic regressions in the conjunct of the Spanish State that have affected the rights and fundamental freedoms recognized both in the state and international legal framework. This democratic regression has had a particularly intense impact, you know, on Catalonia, but not only; we have seen how it is jutgen and how it works for its songs, movies or ideas, how web pages are censored, how newspapers and magazines are spoken, how art exhibits are cancelled, or how public acts are prohibited depending on who participates in it. These facts oblige us to defend and protect the civil and political rights of Catalans, repeatedly violated by the Spanish State. We want our country to be a cohesive country, with rights and opportunities for everyone. And that is why we will develop the Law for equal treatment and non-discrimination, to combat any form of discrimination. Public administration. Cal advance towards an ethical, open and transparent, digital, relational administration. It is not a matter of digitally replicating the Administration of the past secle, but of digitally transforming it. We must also move forward, in the best of the working and remunerative conditions of public workers, who, with their dedication and professionalism, have preserved our institution during the implementation of Article 155. Security and emergencies. If we succeed in being a country that is safe, they are safe in quality of life. Security serves us to ensure democracy, coexistence, and also to protect people and benefits. Catalonia is lucky enough to count on a world-class public security system with prestige and international recognition. We will establish a cross-cutting model of emergencies, integrated into the territory, that ensures effective coverage and that the performance of professionals is conditioned to the needs of the citizenry. Our prediction is to be able to complete with the strategic Pla of bombers, with the corresponding equipment. Justice. For a democratic and socially just society, we understand that the best service is to ensure its access equal to justice, with a modern, rapid, efficient and proximate justice, materializing a model that is a fundamental pillar of social and democratic values, that provides security, strengthens economic growth and is truly an essential public service. In this regard, we will continue to work to ensure effective judicial protection and equal access to justice, and to establish a prison system geared towards reintegration and rehabilitation, of social value and transformative capacity. This is why we will refine the model of Catalan criminal execution, so that you guarantee security, restore recidivism and clearly post for reintegration, while ensuring coexistence, custody and security. And the last eix, the fourth, a Catalonia open to the world. The government will continue to have a presence in the world, of course! This is why we have reopened the delegations and the Diplomacy, also closed in application of Article 155. This external action of the Government, reinforced, poses it to the service of the wealth of actors of the Catalan society with an international vocation, and it also serves to strengthen the bonds and to get closer to the Catalan community to the outside. This representation will continue to act with the utmost intensity to defend the general interests of our country and of all its citizens, in all fields and in collaboration with the Offices of Action, the Ramon Llull Institute, the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises and the Catalan Tourist Agency. And we take with high responsibility the implementation of the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations and the absolutation of sustainable development goals. That's why we're working on a plan with more than seven hundred concrete commitments. Social assumptions. These axes, all the actions to which I referred during my speech, are governed by a common idea: the equality as the central principles of public policies to build a society where none results from exclusion by origin, language or culture, and that the scrupulous respect of human rights and freedom in its essence. This government has as its priority to restore a sustainable and inclusive growth model, a virtuoso circle of efficiency and equity that goes by significantly reducing inequality and eradicating the poor and increasing the productivity of the system in its conjunction. Our country is fine, Catalonia's economy is fine. I had the opportunity to present the economic memory of the chambers, prepared for the Benc de Santander, not two months ago. All the figures are clearly positive, and they are continuously positive. But there's a xifra that needs to alert us, which is the xifra of the brettxa, of the brettxa that works between those that can pull forward and those that can't. And it is here, precisely here, where we have to put all our efforts, because, I insist, in this country everyone, any citizen must be able to pull his life project forward, what he wants and can do. We will continue to work to ensure a dynamic and competitive economy. Thus, for what it does to the elaboration of the assumptions, the priority lines of the presupposition of 2019 will revolve around the maintenance of social coverage in the educational areas, of health and of social services, in order to preserve the most vulnerable collectivities. These are some of the objectives and proposals for action that we have set out in the government plan. We would like to be able to live in a state of democracy, normality and freedom that allows us to devote all our time and all our debates to these issues. And, tanmateix, as Muriel Casals said, because this country can have a good welfare state, before it has to have a state. I'm done. But, as I said to the initiator of this intervention, the legislature is conditioned on the resolution of the feelings that can be produced in the case against our political prisoners and exiles, because voting is not a crime, the crime is that you may go to vote. And, therefore, we cannot accept any feeling that there is no immediate record of the case and its cancellation. I will explain this very clearly: if the Spanish State condemns political prisoners it will condemn people who have obeyed the mandate of the people. If you condemn them, you will be condemning the majority of the people of Catalonia. Think, you, that the people will accept it? Do you think the people won't react? Think I won't do it myself or the government I'm president of? About the sentences of the prisoners we will build our just cause. If he condemns political prisoners and exiles, the Spanish State will be legitimizing Catalonia's right to self-determination before the world, to become a state. I, as an elected representative of the people of Catalonia, have the obligation and determination to channel the majority of the Catalans into feelings that cannot be the fruit of the law, in absolute, but of revenge. Some accusations that the international community, the European countries, has denied, strongly questioning the Spanish judiciary. And, like the Government of Catalonia, we will consider this perverse of the high courts of the Spanish State against the people of Catalonia, against its Parliament and against its political and civil representatives unacceptable, and, I repeat, as the just thing legitimizing the application of the Catalan nation's right of self-determination. The day of the sentences, if they are convictions, will be the point of inflection and of not returning from this legislature. One year ago, the government organized a referendum and it was the self-organized and empowered people who executed it and turned it into a great victory. And we will return as many times as ever to defend our civil, social and political rights to the compliment of democracy and freedom. That's why we need to be strong, organized, empowered, determined, worthy of the moment we live. We have to do it without a doubt. These days I remember the phrase of Pau Casals, from his silence assailant of Prada, from the exile of Prada : "The earth is returned when you release yours by. The most important thing in life is not having to be human and poor Couples told us that being human didn't feel it if you weren't free. In the same way that the union of institutions, citizens and civil organizations, we were able to bring Catalonia to self-determination and one of the acts of disobedience respecting the most important state of our history, this same union will turn the day of feelings into a new day of victory. We won't hold on until we get the result of the reference. We are not here to administer autonomy, nor to recreate ourselves in empty words. We are here to make the Catalan Republic effective. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-02-1601.66.0	Thank you, President. Once the intervention of the President of the Generality has been completed, and in accordance with Rule 154.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning. They suspect the session.
