ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.1.0	The session begins. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this session. Before beginning, however, I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules, Congresswoman Raquel Sans, for reasons of motherhood, and Congresswoman Mònica Palacín, for reasons of hospitalisation, have delegated their vote to Congresswoman Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and that Congressman Pol Gibert has delegated his vote, for reasons of fatherhood, to Congresswoman Eva Granados, spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance. So, too, the memory that Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva deputies have appointed Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights. [[Ask the Government about the search]] [[310-00047/12]] [[The first item on the agenda, therefore, is the oral questions to the Government. And in this case the first question is about research, and the formula is Mrs.Alícia Romero, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. When he wants to.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.2.0	Good morning, President; good morning to everyone. I think we can all agree that the generation of knowledge and the transfer of knowledge generate economic and social progress to our country; that research is a key sector for the economy and for our society, and it is true that in Catalonia we have excellent levels of research, much above many countries, if we compare ourselves in the population. Only two data, to put emphasis on this: since 2008 Spain has rejected 167 European projects; of these, 132..., therefore, 67 have gone to Catalonia, and of the articles, the Catalan scientists and institutions are the most cited quarters of the world, it is to say that our scientists are among the most cited in the best scientific papers. Now, we're talking about excellence in the production of research, but when we're talking about producers, it's, like, researchers, those who do the work, it's when we find clairvoyants. Not because of their search, which is excellent, and more so than because they have a lot of vocation, but because of the precarious conditions in which they live and work: a 60-80_per_cent of the sector lives in temporality, with a few under very low. For this reason many of our researchers are leaving, and for this reason they designed, a while ago, the Beatriu de Pinós scholarships, to attract this talent that we are leaving, that we are going for action. We learned a few days ago that the government has not extended the third possible year of these scholarships to more than sixty investigators. We wanted to ask the councilwoman who was motivated to make this decision, which has damaged the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, Business and Knowledge Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.4.0	Yes, thank you. Obviously, it is also obvious that this Government has as its priority the promotion of research, as we have said before, not only as a knowledge generator, but also as an economic and social engine of our country's activity. They also know that it is in the framework of this National Knowledge Society Pact that we want to include in a cross-cutting way what knowledge, research and innovation is, making it out of the hands of all agents. And, obviously, this remains, without any doubt, as is the priority of this department. On the subject of these fellowships, he had informed himself at the time... and it's not certain that these... I mean, it's not true that he's talking about not renewing himself. He had been informed of the duration, of two years, and by the time this government had, therefore, confirmed that there was a duration of three years. Obviously, as you can imagine, on the grounds of presupposition, therefore, there was no possibility of giving continuity. And in this sense we are not incomplete, therefore, no compromises that we had..., or that the previous government had established in this sense. That's the motieu, the presuppositional endowment. On the subject of activity, of persons carrying out research-related activity, this week we were approving the measures and programme of the Committee for the Integrity of Research. We're also about to approve or we're dealing with the law of science, precisely for the career of researchers, of the people who search. The topic of temporality is not a precarious one; temporality is typical of all search activities: when the programs are finished, the activity of which is being searched, so the contract is over. For what we do need to age is because, once they're doing business, these people who are searching have the conditions they need to have at the economic level. But temporality is inherent to any project. We are not in favour of permanently operating the search activity. There must be a permanent structure in search centers. But obviously, it's linked to every type of project. Otherwise, we'd have a lot of people hired to look for what? So we link them to the programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, Congresswoman Romero has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.6.0	You say it was because of economic reasons. I'd like to ask you if you had a meeting with the Department of Economics, if you went to the Economy to tell him if there was an opportunity to extend it for another year. Because, on other occasions, with a high degree of presupposition, we know that the department had gone to talk to the Economy and had become sensitive to, for example, being able to extend this program for a third year. Because, look, temporality is precarious. And if not, tell the researcher that they come with a two-year scholarship, with the possibility to extend it three years: the first year is the location; the second year, when they could produce, they're already thinking about where to go, and they don't have the opportunity to stabilize their life. Listen, temporality is precarious; looking too. If it turns out that we only have a 20 or a 30 per cent structural staff, it will explain to me whether this is taking care of our people, if this is taking care of our researchers, who generate talent, who generate wealth and jobs in our territories. Honestly, you say they reported it. They didn't report, they sent a mail. I think you might have sent a letter to these sixty investigators that we tried to attract after an international competition. I need to take care of people, I need to design policies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.7.0	Mrs. Romero, it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.8.0	... to put resources and, above all, to advise, to govern. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.9.0	To answer you have the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.10.0	This government rules. And please teach 'em where there was this commitment by writing and on a permanent basis from these three years, why wasn't there, okay? And on the issue of financing for this extension, so obviously, the presuppositionary restrictions that we suffer are who they are.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the interference of the Spanish Government in the decisions of the Government and the Parliament of Catalonia]] [[310-00048/12]] [[The next question is about the interferences of the Spanish Government in the decisions of the Government and the Parliament of Catalonia. And it is formulated by Mr Ruben Wagensberg, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group. When he wants to.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.12.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The lack of sovereignty of this Parliament does not see us again: more than forty Catalan laws have been appealed to the Constitutional Court since the adoption of the 2006 Statute, approved with a large majority and referendum for citizenship, and also explained with a sense for the same court. The vast majority of the suspected laws have nothing to do with the process: Fracking Prohibition Law, the Law of Taxes on Empty Housing, the Law of Effective Equality between Men and Women..., and we can follow this until we can prove that more than half of the resources directed against Parliament have affected social policies and the recapturing of Generality's taxes. In addition, the lack of legislative sovereignty would not be understood without the State's pressure on government action, as you have recently been able to prove yourself in your department, with a central government resorting to the re-opening of government delegations abroad. In view of the lack of instruments to promote many things, a social majority of this country became a sovereignist, and for this reason one day we decided that the best way to acquire sovereignty was to make a republic. We want a republic, among others, because all the laws you decide to push this Parliament and any legitimate government action is possible. Since September 20, in full democratic, participatory, institutional and civic processes to conquer all the sovereignties, repression has arrived in Catalonia in multiple formats, on citizenship and on political action. The seat in Parliament, which ended up carrying President Carme Forcadell to prison, which complements yesterday set_months closed between four pairs and eleven_metres_formigó squares, has not stopped intensifying. Parliamentary life is fully affected by what it does to its functioning, and it seems that Spain can already go through the governments, that nothing changes; to not change, it does not change, nor does the gesture. The persecutions of the mobilized citizenry do not cease, and of Parliament the last: a political declaration widely approved for this chamber, which reproaches the monarchy, which has not been able to escape from the state crusher. A repressive crusher, which goes from the police bodies to the government, going through communication media, bought and aligned, and judicial stations. The lack of freedom of expression and action crosses the streets and towns of Catalonia, culminating in the Government and Parliament. In view of the substantial change in sight by the State, how does this government bring forward the set of longings, what are they, of the citizens of this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Ernest Maragall. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.14.0	Yes, Mr. Congressman, I think you're right in the right part of your parliament. The continued interference of the Government of the State in the decisions that our institutions take creates, creates more indignation than surprise, unfortunately. And before that our attitude is still based on two criteria that we know and understand: dialogue and dignity. Dialeg, because we've been compromised from the beginning, and because we'll continue to feel the main defenders, we'll stick to the table, even though many times the Spanish government's reactions are calling us into question their commitment and are a sign of a clear lack of institutional respect. Dignity, because they will not put up with our compromise, we have all the legitimacy, but also the full responsibility to bring forward our commitments to Catalan citizenship. That's why we're working to get back those laws approved for this large room, laws to fight the poor, inequality, the social rights of all Catalans. And we will work to return to normality our external action, to reopen the delegations that were shut down and open up new ones there where they have heard and used for our citizenship. And we'll work with all the tools before us, including the international pressure, to hard the... [[For technical reasons, some words of the advisor's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...that today does not exist, and in agreement, if possible, for a definite and binding reference. Indeed, the Government has appealed to the Constitutional Court against the resolution that this Parliament approved where the king is reprobated and the monarchy is called upon to do so. Let me be clear: the Government is not bringing the Parliament of Catalonia to the Constitutional Court, it is bringing in 80_percent of the Catalan citizenry that will sign and collect the same resolution. It's the same one he did with the Catalan self-government in 2010. In fact, it seems, we are applying the biting law to your own Catalan sovereignty. Do you pretend that this is a parliament you can't talk about? They want the Parliament of Catalonia to accept that the monarchy is a taboo subject, which cannot be objected to criticism or reprobation? Just confirm the diagnosis they do not want to admit: the Catalan society has broken through with the 78's rule; it has ceased to consider the Constitution as a _mark of coexistence that encloses us; it has abandoned any vestiges of respect for an institution, the monarchy, which repeatedly displays its lack of respect for our will. We will work, therefore, to achieve democratically the free will decision on our future. From government action, from the systematic exercise of popular sovereignty that corresponds to this Parliament, we will continue to serve the democratic will of the majority. Keep talking...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.15.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.16.0	[[...you see all that you've heard in this... (The president removes the use of the microphone from the counselor and this one keeps talking for a while.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.213.0	[[Thank you, Counselor.]] [[Ask the Government about the two years of the Catalonia Tax Agency]] [[310-00049/12]] [[The next question is about the years of the Catalonia Tax Agency. And the formula Mrs. Assumption Laïlla, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.214.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, the Catalonia Tax Agency was created for Law 7/2007 of July 17, as a result of two great factors at that time, which for one band was the deployment of the State – in fact it was the first law that deployed that State – and second place, also the need to transform and modernise the Tax Administration. And so, it wanted to succeed and, in fact, four major strategic objectives were achieved, such as, of course, improving the financing of the Generality, preventing and reducing tax fraud, directing the performance of this tax agency to the civil service and also promoting cooperation with other administrations and tax operators. Or, said in another way, guarantee the taxpayers' rights, improve their transparency and also act with full independence, this agency, so as to work cooperatively. In those moments, the Law of Creation of the Tax Agency of Catalonia already reached broad consensus in this Parliament, because it was understood that it involved a fundamental change in the tax management of Catalonia, and grouped tax management in its broadest sense: talking about the recapitulation of public law entries, but also about the management itself, incorporating concepts such as objectivity, efficiency, "fight against fraud and serve citizens. And, in these two years, it has been shown that, both the territorial deployment of the agency – in 2007 it had four territorial delegations and three hundred and five workers, and now in 2018 it has thirty-five offices with different status and more than seven hundred workers – as well as stable collaboration with other local and supra-municipal tax administrations, and the implementation of the Catalonian Tributes Network, by means of the single window, has been achieved close to citizenship, increasing its collaboration and also its trust, more transparency and detection of irregularities and fraud – for example, the last legislation has only brought about a total discovery of 557_million in the past. Therefore, Vice-President, my parliamentary group would like to know what its value, the Government's value, of these two years of existence of the Catalan Tax Agency is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.18.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, as you very well explained, last week we celebrated the two years of the Catalonia Tax Agency, and from here, before answering your question, I would like to thank Councillor Antoni Castells, Councillor Andreu Mas-Colell and Vice President Oriol Junqueras, because my predecessors in the Department of Economy have been involved in the deployment of the Catalonia Tax Agency. I would also like to thank the workers of the agency and the tax operators of Catalonia, who have made it possible for the Catalonia Tax Agency to be one of the most efficient agencies, for the number of workers it has in relation to every thousand inhabitants. First of all, what happened these years? Territorial deployment. We have a staff of 721 workers, distributed in 32 offices of the same agency, to which we have to add 169 points of attention; therefore, 201 offices are located in the territory. Therefore, the agency is present in the country to donate services to the citizen. Second place, not just territorial deployment, functional deployment. We manage all the donated taxes. It has recovered the management, also, that there were, therefore, dependent on the registrars of the property, mercantile and of movable goods; it has integrated into the agency, generating a estavi; also, the executive management, is to say, when someone does not pay a tax voluntarily, the accuracy, therefore, obligatory on the part of the Administration, that until now it was sold to the state agency. In total, the year 2017 was recapped, on the part of the agency, 3,182_million euros, apart from several and tributes from other local administrations. The third is to boost information and electronic administration systems. We have passed from the Gaudí system to the Espriu, with the ability to manage any tribute, independently of its typology. And four: fighting the fraud. As you said, 557_million tax fraud rose in the last three years; we are working on the new plan against tax fraud 2019-2022, and we have made the calculation of tax fraud. In short, prepared to assume all responsibilities. A government that wants maximum political freedom, which will only be in an independent state, also wants to assume full fiscal and tax responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.19.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the relationship with Aran]] [[310-00044/12]] The next question is about the relationship with the Aran, and the formula Mrs Anna Geli, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.20.0	Counsel, good morning. First of all, I would like to take advantage of the deadline to give thanks to all the Syrians and it is possible for the referendum to take place on 1 October, in absolute solidarity with all the legitimate aspirations of the people of Catalonia. Aran, thanks now to the Aranese and deth Parliament of Catalonia to recognize the right eth of self-determination. In 2015, it is now the subject of the approval of the Law of the Special Regime. As far as self-determination is concerned, and in any case it is written by the President of Puigdemont: "Aran will be what they come to be. Atau ei: this is what they come to be if you love that you want to respect the people of Catalonia. If the Spanish State were to follow in Val we would speak eth Lapapyp – what is it? –: Aragonese language of the same name as Pirenaeus, and well so, we are serious about that region diluted in the context of this money Spain. Atau, at the time of the demonstration, what was pending was arbitrary application ofth 155, which deishèc er self-government dera Val in this critical situation. All these months of infamy mete at risk was political, cultural and social subservience left to our historical rights to the trick of sensations, repression, prisons and fathers. It was my question, Counselor, you will refer to ath Deployment of the Law of Aran. Eth what is it that we, enquire where we have come to and what are aspirations, are immediate actions planned for the government's alert to what so much funding? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, has the word Ms. Elsa Artadi, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.22.0	Well, thank you very much. Member of Parliament, in fact, just a week ago we had occasion to re-evaluate the situation of the deployment of the special regime of the Aran. We had occasion to do bilateral commission with the syndicate, with the General Council. It was a very busy meeting, and in this sense, thank all the work of all the departments, which they did, and of the coordination also of the Secretariat of Relations with the Aran. The deployment of the Law, of the 1/2015, has to allow us, we understand, a greater recognition of the Arane national reality, not only a time and to the Aran, but only to the entire Catalan territory. We understand that this is a way of strengthening relations between the Catalan people, the Arane people, and a way of enriching our country as well. In the terms of the meeting, of the bilateral meeting that we held... we basically focused on two areas. One, the financing; that we were able to close the financing of 2018, which in itself is good news. But what we believe to be the good news is that we already have a political agreement on where the financing model should go; a stable financing model of the Aran, the General Council, which can give self-sufficiency, which can also respond to the responsibility; a model that is foreseen in the law and that, between now and the end of this year, a working group has been set up to make, already, a definitive proposal for how this model should be more stable in the Council in order to make its policies. For the other band, for the competition band, which is a part that is very much deployed to the Law, at 1/2015, highlight it, above all, two. Sports Federations: There is already a political agreement because they can deploy the Aryan sports federations. And, in this sense, what we were working with the board is, of the three legislative vehicles there, which must be the fastest because that can be a reality. And, the other, I served from Emergencies and Bombers, which is theoretically passed from the '94, and which in practice this could not be completed. We have inside staff deployed to the Aran to make a valuation, both quantitative and coordination, that they also have to hold a meeting now, on the 4th of September, to make this valuation and that it can be a reality. If I may, I refer to the words you have already commented, reading what the law says, the additional provision first: "The Parliament of Catalonia recognizes the right of the Arab people to decide their future. I've made the law clear. It is not fallen for the Constitutional – surprise, surprise – and voted 2015 with 103 votes in favour, including the PSC's votes. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Royal Decree of 15/2018 on urgent measures for energy transition and consumer protection]] [[310-00045/12]] The next question is about the Royal Decree 15/2018, urgent measures for energy transition and consumer protection, and the formula of Mr Narcis Clara, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.24.0	Thank you, President. Much honorable President of the Generality, Councillor Chacón, members of the Government and Parliament, the acquiescence of the Paris agreements on climate change is a political and moral obligation to society. To achieve a 32_percent share of renewable energy, an agreement last June between the Member States of the European Union and the European Parliament, as well as the reduction of 40_percent of the winter-effect gases by 2030, as referred to in the 1990s, are two priority and key objectives of this policy. To face the challenges of climate change, the Catalonian Parliament approves the Law 16/2017, following the foundations of European community legislation. The main objectives are: reducing winter-effect gases, promoting civic participation, being at the forefront of research and reducing energy dependence. This country law is an exhibition of the state model we want to build. Last October 6, the Royal Decree of 15/2018, on urgent measures for energy transition and consumer protection, was published to the State's Official Butllet. In this decree it is stated that a transition process has begun to a new paradigm characterized by decarbonization, decentralisation of generation, electrification of the economy, more active consumer participation and more sustainable use of resources. It is simple to prove a strong correspondence between these principles of action, the Law of Climate Change and some of the proposals that the Catalan Government has been demanding for some time. Tanmateix, a more detailed analysis of this decree, reviews of organizations in the Catalan business sector and various news in the media, fear that it may have a negative impact on the Catalan production system. Madam Councillor, what position does the Government have in respect of the Royal Decree of 15/2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, has the word Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, business advisor and Coneixement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.26.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Actually, this royal decree is now passing the papers... well, it's been a bill of law, and we're working because it takes into account the issues that we're defending, in the sense that we're defending. We support some of the measures provided for in this decree: those relating to energy poverty, to the prevention of the size of electricity supply to vulnerable consumers, and also to the development of the industrial social good. In fact, the State has accepted, has integrated some of the positions that the government had long ago. In this sense, you were also considering the measures contained in this Climate Change Law that this Parliament has already approved. A law of climate change, which is our norm, where we have already contemplated these measures, and therefore for the Government of Catalonia there are no new ones. We accept the shared self-consumption proposal, because it eliminates certain tolls and facilitates installations that do not engage in grid energy. It has progressed, too, in the elimination of bureaucratic crossings respect the power supply of the electric car. But all these actions, already contemplated in this Climate Change Law, allow us to improve the competitiveness of our Catalan companies and industries, but we detect a danger, an obvious danger, and this is where we will pressure. Because we understand, we consider that there is a danger that can affect the competitiveness of our businesses, and it is in taxes, in taxes that are implemented. In this sense, the decree attempts to equate the tariffing of other rights, such as in the Basque Country or Madrid, where companies have a better access to energy on the 30-kilometre trams to 72 kilowatts..., kilovolts. What do we propose? We propose to unify the toll in a medium-voltage network of 25 kilovolts or more to less than 72.5 kilovolts. And, in this sense, we appreciate – we understand that it is positive – the acceptance of this hardship that is accepted by the minister, but we believe that if there is no correction of legal measures in this sense, obviously we will have to uphold the rule. Because this is an element that affects the competitiveness of our companies very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the protection and management instruments that the coastal law will provide]] [[310-00046/12]] The next question is about the protection and management instruments, which will be provided by the Coast Planning Law, and formulated by Mr. Antoni Morral, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.28.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, yesterday the Government approved the forward draft of the coastal law. It is now up to him to continue his proceedings here in Parliament for his final approval. This is an initiative that we value timely, necessary and also important. The coast is a sensitive environment for nature. And the Catalan coast in particular is under a huge pressure for the intense human activity that is concentrated, economic activity, hotel, residential... In fact, in the municipalities of the coast there saw 40_percent of the Catalan population. With that would be almost all said. We also have a very heterogeneous coastline. Of the six-cent plating trams, a 56_per_cent are urban and a 43_per_cent, in natural spaces. Moreover, we see ourselves in the obligation to deal with a management of an enormous complexity for the competitive segmentation between the State, the Generality and the joint ventures. The challenges that still lie ahead of the order of the Catalan coast have not been resolved, despite the approval of the urban planning of the coastal system, nor with the transfer of competences from the State Administration to the Generality. And we are often hampered by the enormous effort of departments and joints in the landscape preservation task and natural ecosystems. In fact, in 2005 the Government already approved two specific plans to protect the coast of all Catalonia from excessive urbanization. So it's not starting from scratch. At the length of the later years, gatherings and generality have reduced by a hundred-hectares the only new planned growths that are expected to begin, and this only on the coast of Girona between 2010 and 2018. We saw in this pre-project of law the government's willingness to give one more step to improve the management tools. And, in fact, it's us. Our group welcomes the Government's response to this bill. We have an important need for preservation and conservation. We need to give a quality step to have a more integrated management and equip ourselves with more resources at the time of donating a role more relevant to the joints. So, counselor, what are the instruments that this new coastal law will provide for its protection and management?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word Mr. Damià Calvet, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.30.0	Yes, thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Mr. Deputy, actually, the government approved this preliminary draft of the coastal ordinance law yesterday. This is an initiative that in fact has already been initiated for the former Government, for President Puigdemont and for Councillor Rull; a personal bet of Councillor Rull and the Department of Lands and Sustainability, of the whole Government, which was put to rest for 155, as many other things. In any case, now let's restart this process, let's move on. I would like to highlight, first of all, a main idea of this preliminary draft of the law, which is the overcoming of a situation in which the Generality, now for the time being, is a sea manager of the ordering instruments of the public maritime domain, historically regulated for the State – window femme –, and to move on to develop, approve, have a proper regulation that will deploy the new competitive framework and regulate the coast, which is very important, in an integral way. To list the instruments that you asked me, first of all, what you will do is to create the planning plan of the Catalan coast, a mechanism for the diagnosis of the state of the coast, for the classification of the platters – which you called it – of the establishment of territorial criteria for concessions, necessary action measures to preserve the integrity of the ecosystems and landscapes of the Catalan coast. Therefore, this will be the basic instrument for this integrated management of the land and sea area of the coastal strip. Second place, and very important, a new canon; a new canon in favor of the Generality on the economic return of concessions. And this import, the import of the new channel that is received, is destined entirely to finance actions, actions of better of the coast. It will enable more ambitious policies in the planning, restoration of the coast, also in the mitigation and adaptation of the coast to climate change. And the creation of a new collegiate organ, the coastal planning commission. The coastal planning committee – like so many others we have, commissions for different areas – will have functions of resolve, consultation and information, participated, as it cannot otherwise be, for the departments, for the local authorities, to approve definitively the coastal use plans that we develop. I would also point out that it will create the same use plans, as well as areas of participation, as the board of directors of the same coastal planning plan. An ambitious bet that attaches to us a central role in the comprehensive management of this area of the coast and that, in the sense of doubt, together with other instruments that we have in the way, as the master plan of undeveloped soils, will allow us to be more sensitive to environmental and landscape determinants among others of areas like the Costa Brava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the remuneration policies of workers who carry out activities that are owned by the Generalitat]] [[310-00043/12]] The next question is about the remuneration policies of workers who carry out activities that are owned by the Generality. The formula of Lord Vidal Aragonese, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.32.0	Good morning, everyone. The Investment Agreement of the Joint Groups for Catalonia and the Republican Left of Catalonia, of March 2018, established, as regards the salaries of the workers and the workers – we call "workers" – of the public sector two questions. The first, a salary – and it was established as a reference Catalan salary – of 1,100_gross euros. And second, to study the presuppositional impact that could have a monthly salary of 1,200_euros for the conjunction of workers and workers in the public sector, were already contracted labor, contracted statutorily or functionally or functionally. As you well know, since the CUP - Crida Constituent do not consider that those activities which are owned by the Government of Catalonia, of the public sector, are to be managed in a private way, but that they should be managed directly in a public way, but in this way of recovering this public management, we do consider that these workers and those workers who develop it through private enterprises or organizations that are not the public sector must have guaranteed a reference wage of 1,200€ per 14 payments. Let's ask the Government: why still these workers and those workers who carry out public sector activities through private companies or non-public bodies do not guarantee this monthly salary of EUR 1,200?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.34.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Member of Parliament, this Government has entered into this Parliament the draft law on contracts for the service of persons, which must allow the legal servant to be given because it can take different measures in the departures of contracts, among others, that there are criteria, beyond the criteria of cost, the criteria of price, which can also be taken into account as well as the reasons for the award of a contract, among others the conditions of pay. So, this bill of law we can debate in this House for the next few weeks, and hopefully it'll be approved soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.35.0	To answer the question, has the new word the deputy Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.36.0	Mirin, it is the faculty of the assembly of deputies and deputies of this chamber, that all the modifications that make reference to the public contract, or to the law of public contract..., we can incorporate in a collective way and in a general way a wage guarantees, for example, of 1,200 euros per ordinary day in relation to fourteen payments. But you, the government, have the capacity as contracting authority tomorrow with the existence of any public contract imposing this guarantee. So they have to explain to us... Certainly, with all due respect, but it would seem to me even that the political forces that today are part of the government, or that are part of the groups that are part of the government, so they may be up to and including thirty-eight years ruling this country together. In relation to this, we ask them, if they still maintain what job insecurity means when they do not guarantee a salary of 1,200 euros or if they choose to do so already, since today, because they can do so legally, an option because the workers and the workers as at least have decent wages. That's what we're asking, if they do it now, or if we still have to go through discussions that we don't know yet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.38.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman, in the matter of minimum wages, we are clear. We believe that the proposal of the Government of the State of the nine hundred euros of minimum wages is insufficient for Catalonia because it is not the same cost of living in Catalonia as in other parts of the State. Therefore, they are not the same nine hundred euros in Catalonia as nine hundred euros in other territories. And, therefore, we believe that there must be a minimum wage of reference to Catalonia and in this area we work with trade unions and employers to fix it. This has to be done to get it. Innovation has to work, formation has to work so that there is no loss in competitiveness of our economy. Anyway, what do we have here today? So we have to have Article 159 of the Law 5/2007, of measures, already established, therefore, that there are minimum wage requirements for the establishment and safety of work, that it is ensured in the departure of contract, that it is required in the clauses, therefore, a declaration responsible for so that the bidders are committed to comply scrupulously with tax, labor and social security legislation. And that all the direct and indirect costs that have to be relevant to the arrangement are incorporated into the tender assumption. We trust in collective bargaining. We believe that it is necessary to give power to collective bargaining. And, therefore, that no one dispenses with collective bargaining at the time of submitting tenders in a tendering procedure. And it's true that we have to overcome legal barriers, because it's true that we don't have enough of the current legislation, and that's why we're presenting a bill of law so we can get here. And if you like, look, meetings governed by the UPC like Cellà where this is an accessory score but not a condition, the salary question, nuclear in the bidding. Therefore, we in this sense act as the Encounter of Cellà. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.39.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about cultural acts]] [[310-00040/12]] The next question is about cultural acts and it is formulated by Mr Carlos Carrizosa on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.40.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Counsellor, good morning. This year for the first time the Planet prize has been held in Barcelona without the assistance of any of the members of his government. What was your Government's approach to boycotting a literary prize in this category?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, Ms. Laura Borràs, Culture Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.42.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Carrizosa, you're talking about a boycott. The cultural life of this country is extraordinarily rich and diverse, and every day, in my case, as in the case of the rest of the Councillors, to witness an act we stop attending to many other acts. Dilluns passed, on the date of the Planet prize, I was attending an act at the National Library of Catalonia in the promotion of Catalan women writers and universal literature. Therefore, you could recriminate that no year to an act but was..., was not failing to go to any other act, but was giving continuity to the cultural policies in which we believe, of visibility and diffusion of the women writers. But as you have asked me about cultural acts in Catalonia, I certainly seem to be doing little work, and I have done it for you, and I have made a list of all the acts I have attended in 128 days of government – I have spent fifteen days on vacation – I have attended one hundred and forty acts, forty-three different locations in our country and three different states, because fortunately there are many cultural acts also outside our country in relation to our culture. And the truth is, I'd really like to find them in these acts. Sometimes I'd like to find them, I find deputies from many other groups, but you don't find them. [[Greetings.]] But I'm going to love being able to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the word, again, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.44.0	Counselor, look for us in those acts because we're all going. [[Greetings.]] The one who was no one is at the Planet Prize, Madam Counselor. No one from your government, neither you, nor the Business Advisor, nor Mr. Torra, nor a Director General. None of anybody's. And we wonder if it's perhaps because these awards are in Spanish and you don't consider them part of your culture, as you did in the Koiné manifesto that said that Spanish speakers are instruments of colonization. Look, you guys, what you're doing really well is boycotting. Boycotting and making chiringuitos, that's great for them. Look, you boycotted the head of state; you boycott September 11th all Catalans who don't think like you; you boycott institutions; you boycott Parliament and the last thing you boycotted have been the Planet Awards, the most important literary event in Spain and one of the most important in the world. But when you boycott this, you boycott the Barcelona brand as well. The Barcelona brand, the editorial Planeta, which has a building on the Diagonal in which thousands of people work in Catalonia and live thousands of Catalan families, and you decided to boycott it. In a normal world, the authors that day would have been the news, the works, the authors..., the news was their boycott. The normal thing is that a government that really ruled would have supported an editorial, economic literary cultural event of this magnitude, but you decided to boycott it. You do what you do is boycott, make companies go away, and create chiringuitos in return. Why would you want Santiago Posteguillo if you already have Lluís Llach, right? That's what this is about. What you're afraid of is what you don't handle. You are afraid of anything other than the public sector, freedom, freedom of expression, business. You have vertigo to everything you don't master from your public sector and from your little bars. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.45.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.46.0	You're still with the Koiné Manifest... we're in the Reading Promotion Plate. I recommend that you read it, please. I'm not talking about the Koiné Manifest again without reading it. We will pose as the exercise of the National Reading Plate. This government governs and, for a few, all the counselors were watching acts. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Hey! Does it matter to listen to me? I'm challenging... thank you. [[Greetings.]] I go on – I'm sorry. We were acting, because ruling is sorting, and sorting and watching... look, divenders, we were working hard for language, working hard for language, at Palau Robert, on the evening. Disappointed, in the morning, we were celebrating the forty years of Bookstore 22, in Girona. From the way to Falset, we had a cove of jotes, with territories of Aragonese speaking, with people of the Valencia Country, with people of the Islands, we stopped at Barcelona International Day – you who worry as long as we boycott Barcelona, we were in Barcelona – with the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization. I, diumenge, we were in Valls; Valls, diada castlera par excellence, Ursula, in these – obro comets – "puñeteros castells, end of the quote, Mr. Carrizosa. They were not, however, escorted, as the other day they did an act, in the last parliamentary question they made an act of diffusion of promotion of the extraordinary reading of El Quixote, I, now, allow me to do it of the Any Fabra, which yesterday we did, for example, an act of the Premis Fabra and neither were there. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] No, they weren't; they weren't. [[Widow's remorse.]] They weren't there. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.47.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments. The councillor gives letters from Any Fabra to a few members of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.]] [[Greetings.]] We follow with the questions to answer orally. [[Ask the Government about the treatment of prisoners]] [[310-00041/12]] And, in this case, the next one is about the treatment of prisoners. And the formula is Mrs Lorena Roldán, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.48.0	Yeah. Thank you, President. Mrs Capella, the question I am going to ask you is very simple and I want to remind you that all Catalans are listening to it and that this is being recorded. Can you assure us that the prisoners of the trial are receiving exactly the same treatment as the rest of the inmates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.49.0	To answer, the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.50.0	Good morning, Congresswoman. So, I'll give you the totality of your statements out of the ple. We treat everyone the same and complete the Rules. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.51.0	Thank you. To answer again, you have the word Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.52.0	Well, if you will allow me, Mrs. Capella, that I insist, because you famous for telling the truth, the truth is that you have not just been. You lie, even to your own voters, then, for you will allow me to doubt a little of what you are telling me. Why is it that, besides [[the speaker shows the counselor a few fulls]] , see: « Colau visits the independent prisoners, « Quim Torra visits the former advisers in Lledoners, « Diada institutional visit to Carme Forcadell, in Mas d'Enric, « Urkullu visits Junqueras in prison, « Otegi visits in Lledoners the Catalan politicians in prison, « A delegation of thirteen MEPs visits the prisoners, « Torra, Torrent i Aragonès visit the prisoners to prepare the new political course, « No time limit, no caskets and with advisers, so visit Churches in Junqueras. And I could keep getting news out here until tomorrow. Look how it is, which, according to published information, receives up to twenty-one visits a day. Mrs. Capella, can the rest of the inmates also receive twenty-one visits a day? And can these visits be made without time limit, without caches, without glass, like that shameful, vis-à-vis, of Mr. Iglesias, the emissary, who goes to jail to negotiate with Junqueras on behalf of all the Spaniards? I really read and reread the Rules of Procedure and nowhere do I find that concept of 'institutional visits' which you have invented. Nowhere does it say that inmates can receive visits from, attention: the President of the Parliament, the President of the Generalitat, the Vice-President, Members of Parliament, ex- MPs, councillors, advisers, ex-advisors, journalists, entrepreneurs, high offices of the Generalitat... No, no, no, and neither are they visits by authorities, because neither are they authorities of those described in Rule 49 of the Regulation, nor are they going to visit the centres, they are going to visit specific inmates. And it's just that, on top of that, all those visits I told you do on the same day. Come on, don't get cut. You're about to charter a bus with all these visits. Do you really expect us to believe that all inmates are being treated the same way? Do all interns have birthday parties like Jordi Sànchez? Yeah, yeah. This is detailed by a complaint from an official of Lledoners, officials whom you again place between the sword and the wall. Stop giving political orders to officials. The information that is coming to us seems to me to be very clever, which is that, above it, now, it seems that they have put an office in Junqueras, in Lledoners, because, of course, with so many visits, because the man needs an office. This is very serious, Counselor. And I ask you again: Are you sure that you are being treated like the rest of the inmates? I remind you that we are in Parliament and that all this is recorded. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.53.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.54.0	Well, honourable Member. I thought you would ask me why you were concerned about the treatment of persons deprived of liberty, about pre-trial detention, an unjustified and disproportionate pre-trial detention. [[applause]] because you'd be worried because innocent people are getting the deal as if you're being convicted, because you, when you do this, are not questioning provisional detention, there's no question that innocent people are getting the same deal as if you're being judged and convicted, and because you're not questioning that they didn't take into account their personal circumstances to agree on provisional detention. You, when you do that, do you really think being in prison is a privilege? When you ask this question and tell me everything you're telling me, do you think that being in prison is having a privilege? Look, we're doing the right thing, we're completing the rule. When you make this statement – I told you the other time – you are questioning the public service, the thousands of public service inmates who do their job well and keep prisoners as they should: guaranteeing people's phone rights. By luck, we have excellent professionals. And yes, in Catalonia, like the rest of the democratic countries, the authorities have the obligation and the right to visit the prisons and visit the prisoners, which no one in their parliamentary group has ever done: visit the prisons. [[Greetings.]] It's more, I'll tell you something else. [[Greetings.]] I'll tell you something else. The fact that many political and public authorities in Catalonia, Spain and outside Spain would like to visit the Vice-President, the Councillor, the Councillors, President Forcadell in Catalan Prisons is a finding that they are political prisoners. [[Greetings.]] You yourselves recognize that they are political prisoners. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.55.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the decree regulating the management and functioning of the school maid service of the Department of Education centres]] [[310-00042/12]] The next question is about the decree that regulates the management and functioning of the school maid service of the Department of Education centres and the formula Mrs Marta Ribas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.56.0	Thank you, President. Well, in full debate of a new decree that updates and improves the present on school teachers, we want to lay it down, counselor, our priorities, but also some doubts, some concerns about the text that it prepares. For us, middle and dinar time at the school is a key part in education, it must be a coherent time with general educational policy and, therefore, it must be a time of pedagogical proposal, where there is also work skills and values, a quality food space, therefore, respect the diversity of values and beliefs, but also with proximity products, and a equity area, where no one is excluded either by economic reasons or by special educational needs. To ensure all this, a model of management where the educational community can be involved, with professional quality and skill worthy of the staff who work there, and who manage it has closeness to the project and a clear willingness to serve the public. Food and education are right and can never be a business. In this sense, counsel, for us, the decree should prevent tenders from competing with a formula of large lots. The price should not be the main conditioner. It should have an important influence, in change, on social, labour and economic clausules. It should allow the singularity of cooperative or community model management projects, and it should be imperative that the centres have their own cooking and cooking equipment. And, besides, this decree should facilitate training for staff, should provide sufficient feeding grants and support for students with special educational needs and also incorporate the school manager into secondary schools with ESO, especially in disadvantaged areas. Do we agree, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the advisor d'Ensenyament, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.58.0	Thank you, President. We agree, Congresswoman. On the other hand, I believe that the text of the decree, which at this time is in its first draft phase, of everything you have mentioned, does not include, at these times, secondary questions, but takes a good note of it because you are right. This decree which is, I insist, at the stage of the first preliminary project, the fem because we have to do it urgently, first, because the current decree of school feeding is 1996 before the LEC; therefore, the first one we have to do is to adapt it to the LEC. Second, because the collective conception of the fooder's space, the same fooder's space, and the back of the fooder's space as a key educational element, which was not conceived at that time, has changed greatly from here. And then, because, like all of you, ladies and gentlemen, we know from the table that the European Directive on public contracts and the Law on Public Centre Contracts, which was approved for this very Parliament, and to which, let us say, the contract of the schoolworker has to be adapted. Therefore, it is clear that a new decree is necessary. And the fem, moreover, to achieve a higher educational quality of this space, which is inserted in the center education project. We did this to ensure intervention, control and effective participation of families in the service of all school teachers, those who have centers with AMPA or without AMPA, or centers with AMPA or without AMPA, let's say, really effective. I have done this to enhance food quality, with a healthy diet and with proximity, ecological and seasonal products. And I would say, that I don't have time to explain it, that it has two particularly key points: the decree, first, delegation of competitions. What can they do? The district councils, but also the joints or the centres. And, then, a contracting process that, as the current text says, can only be awarded according to service quality criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. In answer, Mrs Ribas has the new word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.60.0	Thank you, President. Well, the subject of secondary school, so we're asking him to. It will, it will probably also be in Parliament with a young woman who is still working on the poor child. In summary, eating and middle school time must be a time of educational and food quality, a space of equity too, and this is incompatible with the fact that it is opened, or that it is a little, the door to marketing in its management. We already have experience with health services, with many of the management of dependence, of how a public service is degraded when it was managed by someone who prioritizes the economic benefit. Therefore, welcome a new decree of school teachers, if it is to improve, but not to repeat mistakes that we already know where to bring us. And yet there's time, counselor, to listen to the educational community and not to act as a screen to the family.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.61.0	Congresswoman, time's up. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.62.0	Thank you. Precisely, the decree that wants to put an end to some commercialization processes that, due to lack of legal certainty, were already beginning to be given and that, in this course, in particular, have become evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.63.0	Thank you, Counselor. So far you ask them to answer the government orally. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the Council of the Republic]] [[317-00022/12]] Let us now turn to the questions of the President of the Generality. And the first question was asked by Mr Xavier García Albiol, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.64.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Torra, we have known that you and your Major, Mr. Puigdemont, have granted to use the Palau of the Generality to present the Council of the Republic. Beyond the illegitimate use of Palau, to present an organ that precisely claims, in an absolutely illegitimate way, to replace the power of the Generality, he wanted to ask: what do they claim? If they want to convert this club, this independence organ, these independence friends in the institution, with an institution that supplants the generality's political leadership action?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.66.0	Yes, good morning, president; good morning, deputy. I promise you, I will make an effort to follow my translator Albiol-català and try to understand what you are proposing with this question... I don't know, it seemed to me that I was talking about the very honorable President Puigdemont as a major; I seem to be a terrible disrespect for who has been President of the Generality, and you give him all the respect, to this President of the Generality; always, you give him all the respect. [[Greetings.]] And yes, we announced in his parliamentary office that one of the friends in whom we want to build the republican building in Catalonia, one of the ways of republican action was the Council for the Republic. And that's what we're gonna put in the way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.67.0	Thank you, President. To answer the question, the deputy has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.68.0	Thank you, Mr. President. The advantage we have for those who believe in plurality is that we can speak Catalan and Spanish with absolute freedom, something that is obvious that you do not share or just understand. But let me tell you that... look, I'm gonna explain to you what's really going on. What really happens is that a few weeks ago, a few months ago, the President of the Spanish Government is putting you on a red carpet so that you don't step on the ground, so that it doesn't get dirty, so that you don't get upset. The President of the Spanish Government has been able to break the institutional consensus on what is happening in Catalonia to try to please you. And his response and that of his Government, alone and exclusively, is based on the referendum of self-determination and, now, on the Council of the Republic. Here's your answer. This Council of the Republic is the materialization of a delusion that leads them to have an absolutely altered perception of reality and of what is happening in Catalonia. And, Mr. Torra, you and your government are trampling on the dignity of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Your actions show that you do not need an external enemy, you do not need an enemy in the Government of Spain: you have become the biggest instrument of discrediting the Generalitat of Catalonia itself. To create parallel bodies of representation to legitimate institutions can only be at the head of those who have an absolutely distorted vision of what the word 'democracy' means. Mr. Torra, do yourself a favor to you and all Catalans: call immediately autonomous elections to put an end to this episode, this nightmare that we are living. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.69.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.70.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr President, I would remind you that in this chamber on two occasions, on two motions for resolutions, it was voted that the very honourable President Carles Puigdemont had the majority enough to be invested as president and that it could not be. I remind you that in full debate of the investiture of Councillor Turull is going to get engaged. I remind you that we don't have to work hard to discredit the Spanish State, because it's discrediting the sun. The last data, if I may..., well, as each day goes by..., but the last one – I don't know, maybe this morning, so, something else has happened – is precisely the spectacle that we are seeing in the Supreme Court and the whole issue of mortgages. There is a hard problem – there is a hard problem – which is the problem of the Spanish State's disclaimer, indeed. You think you were posing... from your intervention I seem to hear you're just putting the focus here, don't you? And I fully agree: it's a problem that we're dealing with from the wrong-named "democratic transition – it would be better" the new Bourbon restoration, to hear us – in which we've actually seen Francoist cuts still remain in the great structures of the State: the Council of State, eh? , with a new, illustrious member, appointed for President Sánchez, Vice President Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría ; in the judiciary, in the great elites that dominate this state power, here we have Francoist reductions that discredit the State in itself. And we see it every day – and we see it every day. That's why we want to implement the republic and have a republic project... for us the Council for the Republic is important, and we will present it on the 30th to the Palau de la Generalitat, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.71.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the presentation of the draft law on assumptions for 2019]] [[317-00023/12]] The following question is asked by Ms.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.72.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. President, when does your government intend to begin to comply with its obligation to submit a proposal for assumptions that they have in the Catalonian market?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.74.0	So, miri, the proper weeks. And we hope to have long debates with you..., with the CUP it does not seem that it is possible, now, to keep them long, but at least we will want to introduce you and start negotiations that we hope will be long, profitable and that will end with an agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.75.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.76.0	Thank you, President. I'm glad to hear those words, because we're late. And we're late because... I'll tell you some facts that make Catalonia occupy today seven podes of shame. The first is youth: now more than 30_percent of young people are at work and others have had to go abroad in search of a better life. In the second place, Catalonia occupies the pode of the shame of the denunciations: we are the territory of the State with more denunciations, and every day forty-four families – which is said aviat – lose their home. In the third place, Catalonia occupies the pode of shame in health shops: now it is invested in sanitation a 27 and a half percent less than before the crisis. Catalonia also occupies the podium of shame in educational detail, which makes us place the Cua of the European Union in educational reversal. The financing of the Bressol schools, the struggle against school segregation, the inclusive school decree, the feeding alleys, the chronified barracks, are fears that can't wait. Another: Catalonia occupies the throne of shame in the price of university subjects, it is the place of the State that holds them higher. The sisé podi: the podi of shame spent on social services, and, as examples, has only approved a 5-per-cent of all requests for guaranteed citizenship income; we are the worst in the state on dependency waiting lists, and a 30-per-cent of infants are at risk of poverty. I finish: the podiatrist of the shame of wage descent. We are the territories of the State where the wage has fallen since 2010, and it has affected the people they least have. President, I must urgently end this shameful and pathetic situation. It is likely that you and I will not be able to agree at what hour it is, but at least – at least – I hope that you will be able to abandon the empty rhetoric for a moment and the constitution of the Council and come to Parliament, which is yours of the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, to make effective politics with the most powerful political instrument they have, which are the assumptions of the Generality. Quiet down some assumptions that lay life in the center. You already know that he likes to talk about life; so some assumptions that lay life in the center. Presumables that cover all the sobrieties: education sovereignty, health sovereignty, the sobriety of having a decent job, the sovereignty of the right to decide, president. All sobrieties – all – for us are essential. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.77.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.78.0	Miri, I'm at the back of his exhibition: from "all the sobrierities, eh? Actually, all the sobrieties; we're talking about this, huh? Because these assumptions are going to talk about life, these assumptions are going to put people in the center. I insist, at least from my own, let's say, short political experience, gives me the feeling that there is no sense in the work that we can do from the government, from the parliament, from the assemblies, if not to work for people. And, if I may, tell them that the previous government was just a government where social concern was higher than in any other government. The assumptions of 2017 were increased by three percentage points compared to the previous assumptions in social expenditure: more than 1,355_millions of increase in social expenditure over the year 2015. As much as 80 per cent of the increase in total departmental expenditure was allocated to social expenditure, for the priority of social expenditure and attention to whom it is most needed. And we want to go on this line. And, therefore, let's store this positive part of your speech, to find out already points of detail in which we want to advance. But I also... because, look, I had the chance to share with some Catalan entrepreneurs who generate wealth in this country and who are very important, with Czech friends, a night when we honored the excellence and talent of entrepreneurs in this country, right? And I like to put down a few figures, too. You've put in a few figures, so let's say they're not too nice; I'd also like to put in some other figures that I think are also important from the reality of this country, such as that the weather dropped by 5_per_cent this September, to 380,000 at last, and that today they represent 11.4_per_cent in Catalonia and, in change, in Spain is 15.3_per_cent. And you will say to me: "It may have been a coincidence. Well, we carry sixty-three consecutive months – sixty-three consecutive months – reducing the country's reach to some indexes of the year 2008. It seems to me to be an important fact, a little more positive, perhaps, that you brought them to us before. For seven years, we have recorded an export record; therefore, it seems to me that we also...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.79.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.80.0	...is a very important given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.81.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.82.0	And they already know the dynamo growth data for the resulting quarters... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.83.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the convening of parliamentary groups and sub-groups to the Permanent Table of Dialeg]] [[317-00021/12]] The following question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.84.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Most honourable President, on 5 July the Parliament agreed to commend the convocation of the chairmen of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups so as to form a dialogue area to facilitate agreements on the major issues of the country. The 11th of October the chamber repeated this command, instant to realize it in a term of thirty days. The question is: Mr President, what are you doing to compliment this mandate?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.85.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.86.0	President... Congressman, I have good news – I have good news. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.87.0	Deputy, to ask you the question, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.88.0	I'm announcing your magnum Gaudium. But then it's said what, President! [[Rialles.]] In any case, we are in terms– it has until middays of the month to do so –, but it does work for us, we see in you a special zeal for issues that you think may be more likely or more likely: we have seen it enthusiastically – well, or not so much – present the Council Counsellor for the Civic and Social Forum, we have seen it also enthusiastically talking about the Council for the Republic, but in change we do not see it..., or perhaps it is doing it discreetly, and I would like to know it, whether it is working for something that is a parliamentary mandate. We have warned some times that making institutions that do not fit our laws has some risks; among other things, eroding the role of institutions that are recognized in our legal framework. In any case, we have also seen it, so, as, for example, you did not attend the summit of the Mediterranean Corridor or – before it was mentioned – the release of the Planet prizes... It makes us the effect that you are concerned only about my country, and we would like you to deny it, we would like you to say to us: "No, no, it is that the things I am doing are not known. We, the truth, believe that without Catalonia's debate, without a dialogue between the Catalan political forces, we cannot move forward. And, therefore, we have to start this dialog, and the chamber has placed it to you to start it, this dialog that starts from respect. And I also take this question, Mr President, to appeal to your authority, your proximity to the CoR: please, to promote respect, the dialogue between parties, which does not attack your political parties. I think I could advise them in this direction; it would be a good advice for the republic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.89.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. To answer again, the president has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.90.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, if anything we do is fulfill parliamentary mandates, huh? That's why you don't have any doubts. Our parliamentary mandate, I think, was made clear in the investiture speech: we propose to go from restitution to constitution, and here we are. And we also took, in the last plan of government, a series of commitments, which we are executing, huh? And, indeed, we said that we would set aside a council for the republic, and it will actually be presented on the 30th to the Palau de la Generalitat. We said that we would start the whole debate, and indeed we did not constitute the first piece, that it is this councillor, and I am excited – I am excited – to have a personality like Lluís Llach and a whole group of members that I seem to be surprised by their plurality, their cross-sectionality and why they appeal to many sensitivities in the country. We said that we would approve all the social laws that had been suspended by the Constitutional Court, and we would do so. We said that we intend to return President Puigdemont, and that is our objective. Therefore, we will make all these commitments. And, indeed, we voted, thanks to his proposal, and the chamber agreed, that we would start this table for the dialog. And we have a date, and we want to propose it – and we will do it formally these days, tomorrow, tomorrow passed, to all of you, if it suits you – so, on November 16th..., it seemed to us that between the terms was a good date to be able to gather us. For us it is as important as for you, this dialog. But a serious dialogue, an honest dialogue, a deep dialogue, a dialogue that this country needs, and therefore we are willing to take every possible step. And it will therefore be very interesting to see if, in fact, this table that we call ourselves can also serve all of us to deepen in this dialect that we are asking for. Says I'm just working for half the country. Miri, it's just this week, or these last weeks, I presided over the act of the night of the Czech Republic, I presided over the act of Pimec, I presided over the delivery of Research Awards. I'm not just working for half a country, I'm working for the honest country, for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans. And I'm trying, in an extremely difficult and complicated situation, to find a way out, a way out that goes through two inescapable points: the freedom of political prisoners and the right of self-determination of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.91.0	President, thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the President of the Generality about the Civic and Social Forum for the Constituent Debate]] [[317-00025/12]] The next question, the formulation of Mr Sergi Sabrià, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.92.0	Benvolgut President, we celebrate that today the first stone of the Civic Forum is laid. For us this is a phone book to put on the table the country we want and that, moreover, that this task falls on Lluís Llach, also seems to us a very good decision. We are clear that it is an opportunity to give the whole city a view, and not just a view, but also a decision-making capacity, that people must be the main protagonist. This is a proposal that, from the Republican Left, we have always defended, a very powerful instrument to seize our citizens, to strengthen our democratic system, to advance towards the republic, because there is no more republic than to seize our citizens and that I have the capacity to decide which country is better than we want to build for everyone. This dialogue must make us manage to reach all the sensitivities of the country, not all of us, but not to innovate in the field of participation, but not to copy and, therefore, we have references like Scotland or Ireland, which surely serve us. And, presiding, ultimately, the success or failure of this proposal will depend, in the end, on how many people are involved, how many people feel questioned. As far as the diversity of the country's citizenship is concerned, it will be a success or not. And that's our question, president: how do we put it, why do you come all the way? The success will be in the measure that the Forum is recognized as an effective tool for the citizens' group, as a powerful tool to think, to discuss the country we want among all, regardless of whether those who participate in it are about independence or about a reference or not. Who doesn't want to talk, listen or argue with other citizens about the country we want? Who doesn't want to talk about education? Who doesn't want to talk about the energy system? Who doesn't want to talk about habitating? What ideas will citizens bring to this issue? President, if this forum is a conversation between the convinced independenceists it will be an interesting exercise, but of very limited transcendence. If this forum is a great conversation between the Republicans, between the three_quarters_parts of the citizens, it will be an important success and a transcendent contribution to the new country that we need to build, but if this forum breaks all the barriers, if up to all the reasons, if everyone feels questioned, votes what you vote and think what you think, it will make us grow like the country, it will make us strong as society and we will have advanced...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.93.0	Time's running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.94.0	...publically as we've never done before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.95.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.96.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. It was a good intervention to applaud. Yeah, yeah, I totally agree. [[Rialles.]] Actually, that's it, that's the people, that's the people in this country. Therefore, everything that has happened in this country cannot be heard if it is not for this social empowerment that citizens have taken over, that they take decisions and that they say: "Listen to me, I feel sober, I feel sober to pull forward. And, therefore, if we don't get there – effectively, I agree – to this great large, to these consensuses that the Catalan society already has, we always have these three great consensuses around which there are 80_percent of the Catalan population, which is: u, that the monarchical institution no longer feels like one of its own things and that it feels republican, because it has come to the deep conviction that the republican way is the only way that in the 21st century can guarantee this freedom, this power that the city feels; two, that it doesn't agree with the repression and, three, that it wants an agreed solution, negotiated and with an internationally binding referendum. If we are not able to get to this 80_per_cent, I would agree with you that this forum would certainly not have responded to our expectations. But to get here for me the most important thing is that this councillor, that President Llach, feel completely independent and autonomous to pull this project forward. That seems very uplifting to me. I seem very uplifting because I wouldn't like to see the shadow of the government being behind this body, on the contrary. We have wanted to choose a person like Lluís Llach, who seems to me to be a person of a great transversality, much more than Llach means for independence, I think that he is also up to the broad ends of sovereignty and the right to decide, and that he is the one who pulls forward, with all the rest of the companies that will form this councillor, this idea of a great space for debate. If forty years ago we were able, with the Catalan Congress of Culture, to involve the assembly of the citizenry, this Civic and Social Forum for the Constituent Debate must also, with that same intention, be the culmination of this great debate. Thank you. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the drift of the international policy of the Government of the Spanish State]] [[317-00024/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.97.0	The following question is asked by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.98.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. Very Honourable President Torra. The state model..., the state crisis of the Spanish State is difficult, affects many areas, affects different stages. Now it is no longer just the ridiculous Spanish monarchy and its lack of credibility, now it is no longer just the obvious crisis of reliability and confidence in the judicial system, I believe that the mortgage crisis, with the Manada, etcetera, etcetera, is already unbearable. It is no longer just that there is no separation of powers in the Spanish State, but it is now also in the whole diplomatic sphere, in the whole sphere of international relations, in the whole commercial economic sphere that also has to do with the international sphere. As Josep Pla said: "There is nothing more to assemble to a Spanish policy than a Spanish policy of the left, and this has a very obvious example, which is said by Minister Josep Borrell, which is what assembles more to a Spanish minister of the right which, even more so, speaks of "disinfecting when talking about political prisoners, is now a shareholder minister, who benefits from privileged information for the Abengoa case, and has not yet resigned, which also happens to the Spanish ministers of the People's Party. In this sense, Minister Borrell's shames in Spain do not know how hard to cover them by passing international shames, doing different effects, as they have seen during these days, on councils, cessation of honorary councils that we have seen, for example, the last one – which joins that of the Philippines, Latvia, Bulgaria and Finland –, that of Greece, which has been ceased to attend a demonstration. Or the ridiculous boycotts that the State itself defends, Mr. Borrell, like Mr. Morenos at the last Smithsonian festival, in Washington, with the same president of the Generality, with you. And last but not least, Mr. Borrell withdrew the diplomatic status as delegate of the Government of Flanders, precisely for statements by the Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Peumans – to whom we give all our support – to give support to President Forcadell. What do you have to pass to the Spanish State with the presidents of the Parliament – whether they are from Catalonia or Flanders – that to let them vote, or to speak, or to express, have political effects? We ask you for this hard result of the international policy of the Spanish State, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.100.0	Yes, President. Thank you, Congressman. Yes, yes, you are absolutely right, and yesterday we lived perhaps the last episode of this international drift from the Spanish State, with that approval, truly indignant, disappointing, of the sale of weapons to Saudi Arabia between the PSOE and the PP. It is absolutely inexplicable, to me, for any democrat, for any defender of the principles of civil rights and freedoms. It's something that Mrs. Merkel doesn't... nor does she get to do and, in turn, here we saw how it went. As, as we go, you are quite right, I reckon, we have made our calculations, we think that for Nadal there will no longer be any island in Barcelona, because let us tell him that Mr. Borrell's consular annihilator has been activated with extraordinary power, really. He knows a lot about a government that wants to talk to us, so there are ministers, like Mr Borrell, who are a real obstacle, but a huge obstacle to the middle of the way to reach any agreement. Mr. Borrell – he said it publicly – dedicates the cent_per_cent of his time to fighting what he says "separatist propaganda," right? Well, it turns out that Mr. Borrell, imagine's, if he's so busy with it, it's very difficult for him to have time to deal with any other matter. I think his obsession with Catalan independence is really one of the most serious obstacles now because the dialogue between the governments of Spain and Catalonia can pull forward. And with us fighting it? So with more international politics, with more foreign action, going out more and more to foreign countries to explain the catal case and that the catal case..., demand this international mediation for Catalonia, for the very grave situation of having political prisoners and exiles and for the right to self-determination. Look, I've had the opportunity to be at the University of Geneva and make an exhibition on this subject. And I assure them that in a country that is used to doing, or that in the last five years it has made forty-five national references, it has cost them a lot, a lot, a lot of hearing that to make a reference to you put you in jail or maybe to go vote, a lot, it has cost them to hear. Therefore, the world does not understand what is happening in Spain and here is where we have to be more active and really explain the gravity of the Catalan conflict.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.101.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the lists of waits in the health field]] [[317-00020/12]] The following and later asks the formula Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.102.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, right now there are hundreds of thousands of Catalans who are in a very hurry – very hurry. Taken because they are on an endless waiting list in public health; ready to do a diagnostic test, to have an appointment with the specialist or even for an operation. Citizens today present, in this plenary session, a law to improve the management of waiting lists. How do you feel, as president, that the groups supporting your Government have tabled an amendment in its entirety?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.103.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.104.0	So, look, I'm telling you that waiting lists are still a government priority. In the general policy debate I think we had an opportunity to contrast a series of figures, which we did not agree with, theirs and ours, but which already indicated a few better ones, that we are doing audits of registers and that, above all, we have a decree to deal with those points that we have not yet been able to finish solving the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.105.0	To answer again, you have the word Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.106.0	Thank you, Mr. Torra. Our data was from the Generalitat website, if you're lying, it's a good opportunity to tell all Catalans. But look, we want to have a serious debate because it is not just about talking about waiting lists of how many resources we put in health care, which is obviously a very important thing, that we will already talk about in the budgets where you could put in and find more money to reduce waiting lists, but there is also a clear management problem. I give you an example, in Tarragona to do a CT scan, thirty days of waiting; in Reus, fifteen_minutes, one_quarter of an hour, about three hundred_days of waiting list; in the city of Barcelona, mammography in a hospital center, more than one hundred_twenty_days of waiting; in another hospital center, fifteen_days only. Do you not realize that there is a clear management problem? And you block our law that comes precisely to talk about this, to listen to experts, to patient associations, to reach a political agreement, but it doesn't matter to you. Because what matters to Mr Torra is the process, what matters to him is the referendum and what matters to him is independence, because what you have is an obsession. That's why they're in a hurry, to create chiringuitos. Is today's chiringuite a counselor for the reduction of waiting lists? No, he's a councillor for the impulse of a civic and social forum for the debate. Who's got a guest star? To your friend Mr. Lluís Llach. As he likes to create chiringuitos for the process, as they like to create chiringuitos for the process, where they finger his friends, while in Parliament they block a law to talk about waiting lists. Moreover, chiringuitos, I insist, that you do not convince the majority of yours, Mr Torra, that it is no longer that you are processists, that you are « chiringuitists, that we will have to include that new word in the dictionary to describe you. Look, it is not believed that all you have in front of you is Mr Sánchez's collusion, in Moncloa, do not get confused – do not get confused – because you have broken Catalan society for nothing, you have broken Catalan society to harm Catalans. I know you're not going to talk to me about waiting lists – I don't expect you to talk to me about waiting lists, really – but I'm just asking you one thing: please ask your parliamentary groups not to block a law so that it can come...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.107.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.108.0	...people who do care about waiting lists. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. The President gives the word to the President of the Generality.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.109.0	Yes, thank you, President. Congresswoman, I was already afraid we wouldn't end up talking about the waiting list, but about the chollos and the chiringuitisms, and so on. All right, this chiringuitism thing, I think it's a neologism, counselor, that we're gonna have to see how..., how it goes. Because it's because you always go here, that's to say... I, look, I was carrying on the waiting lists... I thought we could have a proper debate, I wanted to tell him that we were working on a decree that must allow us to move faster and move forward in the solution. That's why we... because we're working, because we've done audits, because we've talked to hospitals, with doctors, because we know where these problems are – these problems – actually. And you say to me, "Oh, and where are the resources drawn? Miri, for example, wants to... you know what I'm gonna answer? I can imagine, can't I? So the tax deficit. It is obvious that we are drawing resources from the tax deficit. Do you want me to insist again on the data I told you in the speech we had on the general policy debate? Do you know what it would cost us to make a month of Broggi? Do you know what it would cost us? Three and a half days of tax deficit, huh? And that's the theme, and that's the theme we'll always go back to. Because with the current assumptions, with the current resources, we can actually manage them better, we can audit where we have problems, we can see where we can find solutions, we can do a decree law, we can do everything, and the Health Department is getting drunk, just to avoid waiting lists, and because it's a matter of concern to us. And it's a subject that worries us enormously. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes... We are concerned, as we are concerned about the Catalan economy. And I, for example, yesterday, was presiding, so, the Nit of the Entrepreneur, of Cecot... – which, by the way, eh? , as it happens to the Councillor of Culture –, I did not see either of you accompanying the entrepreneurs of Vallès. I don't know... maybe it's just that it's not part of people's real problems accompanying businesses in Vallès either. But it would also be good if, from time to time, he was left behind in some of these acts, right? And, therefore, I have to tell you that this government... - as you explained, huh? – this government governs – governs – for all Catalans, but it also has a clear objective, an objective that we shared with more than one million Catalans on September 11th, which is to make the Catalan Republic. Indeed, this is our ultimate goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.110.0	The control session is over... [[Member compatibility situation]] [[234-00001/12 to 234-00009/12, 234-00011/12 to 234-00014/12, 234-00016/12 to 234-00035/12, 234-00037/12 to 234-00077/12, 234-00079/12 to 234-00080/12, 234-00082/12, 234-00084/12 to 234-00093/12, 234-00095/12 to 234-00105/12, 234-00107/12 to 234-00110/12, 234-00113/12, 234-00115/12 to 234-00118/12, 234-00120/12 to 234-00137/12, 234-00139/12 to 234-00141/12 and 234-00143/12 to 234-00148/12]] ...let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, which is the compatibility situation of Members, as... Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.111.0	Maybe I didn't let him finish the sentence, we just wanted to ask for a separate vote and make an explanation of vote at this point in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.112.0	Separate vote, exactly, from what?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.113.0	So, miri, of the consignors– 234, all of them– 19, 84, 85, 87, 89, 113 and 107, correspondents to the Lords Jordi Sánchez, Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Carles Puigdemont and Antoni Comín. Of all these, we will have to abstain, because they are people who are suspected or fugitives, in the case of Mr Comín, and therefore we understand that it is not the case that this Parliament is now ruling on the compatibility of its activities, given that these Members are suspected, and therefore they do not have their parliamentary rights in force and there is no compatibility on which to pronounce. [[Vidal Aragonese Chicharro asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.114.0	Yes, Mr. Aragonese?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.115.0	Yes, for a point of order that, at times, is also transformed into an explanation of why this subgroup will not vote. If..., they see what's going on today, that it's a single sender to resolve all the incompatibilities – or the possible compatible ones, could be all two situations –, the answer to the question that we should do is: what would happen if we did a single vote, which is what brings us today and on the one sender, independently after we can do or ask for separate vote, if it is asked and if it agrees. And that would give us a very simple problem: that if we had, in relation to a Member of the 134 voting, the view that it was not compatible, we would have to vote against it and we would be voting against it too. Therefore, in the configuration of a single dispatcher, and so we also set it up in the Committee of the Statute of the Deputies, we think that the correct handling of the compatibility issue is not given. And to respect, too, to take into consideration, two elements: the first, which refers to the literal interpretation of the norm. If someone looks at what Article 18.2 of the Rules of Procedure establishes, they will see that when Article 18.2 speaks to this question, it speaks to us about "proposals–proposals– and no" proposal. Therefore, he is talking about different proposals and, therefore, they are thinking of a separate processing. If someone also reads with a certain detention Article 18.5 of the Rules of Procedure will see that it speaks of "dictations and no opinion; therefore, he is thinking of a separate processing. Finally, he says, expressly, "for each Member. And then, also, if there is anyone who has doubts about the interpretation of these two subparts of Article 18, he will have to go to the antecedent of what happened in this chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.116.0	Mr. Aragonese, I'm asking you to go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.117.0	I'm done, but you have to explain why.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.118.0	So much! Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.119.0	If you don't leave me..., I say it because you asked me..., if you think I can't talk..., but the "end of the day, I'll have to explain why. And I said, Mr. President, that obviously if anyone has any doubts as to how this is to be interpreted, they can also go to the antecedent of this chamber. And some or some of those who wear more years will remember that some time even had been done separately. Yes, the fact that some group may now ask for a separate vote does not solve a nullity defect on the totality of the procedure in the measure that has been processed in a single dispatcher. We have already made the point that we would not oppose it on an issue of administrative or procedural economy, so as not to provoke 134 votes, but we do want you to be aware that it has not been properly dealt with, because in another legislature we could perfectly demand that it is done separately. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.120.0	If there is no more petition in relation to this, we will vote as requested: first, the consignors who have requested to vote separately and then we will vote on the remainder of the opinion from the Committee on the Status of Deputies. The consignors who have requested that it be voted on separately, if I have not been mistaken, are 87, 89, 19, 113, 84, 85 and 107. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we would proceed to vote, initially, on these expedients and then, in a second vote, we would vote on the rest. Therefore, we will vote on this list of documents, which I will not repeat, and then we will vote on the rest. The vote begins. These consignors were approved by 83 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. Let us now vote, as we have said, on the rest of the documents of the opinion of the Committee on the Status of Deputies. The vote begins. Those consignors were approved by 123 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Draft law amending the fourth edition of the Civil Code of Catalonia to guarantee equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities (debate of totality)]] [[200-00001/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, the third item, is the debate of totality on the draft law amending the fourth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia in order to guarantee equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities. In accordance with Article 116.2 of the Rules, the initiative is presented by the Councilwoman of Justicia, Mrs Esther Capella. They demand that if they are to abandon the hemicicle they do so in silence and quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.121.0	Good morning, Speaker of Parliament. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, I would like to address you in order to present and explain why the draft law which aims to amend the fourth edition of the Civil Code of Catalonia in order to guarantee equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities. This is the first legislative initiative of the Government that has entered Parliament in this legislature and has been published in the official butllet of this chamber on July 5th of encanny to initiate the corresponding parliamentary procedure. During the last legislature the Commission of Justice, and in its session of May 25, 2017, adopted the Resolution of the Parliament of Catalonia on equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities, presented the February 2017 for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. This resolution, driven by associations defending the rights of persons suffering from sensory disabilities, urged the Government of Catalonia to study and present the corresponding amendment of the Civil Code of Catalonia in order to implement the right to non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities in the matter of will. The Government, in any case, also points out that this proposal – and therefore the delay in parliamentary processing – is also one of the affected – in this case, this bill – of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. The Government, the current Government, has paid tribute to the parliamentary resolution and, through the Department of Justice and its Catalonia Codification Commission, has studied and shaped the bill that I have the honour to present today. We have called for the processing of this bill to be completed by the emergency process, because we consider that all the requirements to do so are met. In the first place, it is a short text, there are only four articles, which are modified, prepared at the instància of the Parliament and of the organizations concerned. And that supposes, as he pointed out, to remove the obstacles that prevent the full exercise for the collection of affected persons modifying some legal forecasts that today have a clearly discriminatory character. On the other hand, although the features of the legal text that we are presenting today would also allow it, we did not want to propose to them a single reading procedure so that the parliamentary groups and the entities that are going to promote this initiative can introduce, if they get out, those better ones that they consider appropriate or necessary to take advantage of the process of issues. As indicated in the draft law, persons with sensory disabilities are those who suffer from or have a dysfunction or disability, or have a visual, auditory or verbal statement that limits their abilities, their communication, expressive and responsive abilities, and that, in order to meet their specific needs, it is appropriate to take appropriate measures to achieve equal treatment or opportunity in the exercise of their rights and rights as citizens. Therefore, we can say that the purpose of this initiative is to achieve an equal treatment of persons with sensory disabilities respect for other persons who do not have them, especially in the exercise of their rights at the time of securing the will before the notari. So also because they can intervene, as witnesses, in the act of the will's arrogation for another person. In short, it is a matter of modifying the provisions of the Civil Code in the matter of wills which establish restrictions on persons with sensory disabilities who may qualify as discrimination, since the fact of having a particular pathology does not for itself constitute a limitation at the time of carrying out certain acts with legal effectiveness. Moreover, these sensory difficulties can be compensated and removed with non-verbal communication alternatives or with the use of technological means that hold the reliability and legal certainty equivalent to that produced in the actions of a person who does not suffer from this type of disability. The other way forward to ensure equal rights and non-discrimination is to remove the expressions collected in the current Civil Code, the Civil Code of Catalonia, which identifies people as deaf, blind or changed, since the disappearance of these expressions can also help to eliminate the stigma that stems from this disability, which, as is obvious, is susceptible to an extensive graduation and classification, according to the cases. Specifically, this draft law proposes the modification of four articles of the fourth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to successions and which are: Article 421.8, which refers to the wills attached to persons with sensory disabilities, of which the words « cec, « deaf, « mute or « deafmut» are deleted; Article 421.10, apart from the second, so that the intervention of witnesses is no longer necessary when the testator is a person with sensory disabilities. Article 421.11, of which it is proposed to remove the second, letter b, with the aim that persons with sensory disabilities can also intervene as witnesses in the will's attachment by other persons. Article 421.14, relating to the sealed will, is to say, to the will which is written by the testator or another person for his or her own charge, which is inserted into an envelope, so that the will cannot be extracted without cutting it out, and with respect to which the prohibition of entering a closed will by blind persons, which is still contained in the fifth paragraph of this precept, from our Civil Code, is eliminated. In short, with the modification of the articles of the fourth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to successions, this initiative claims that persons with sensory disabilities do not suffer discrimination because of their sensory disability, in the exercise of the rights and freedoms that correspond to them as citizens and citizens, in the field of the civil law of Catalonia. I sincerely believe that all of us can congratulate ourselves on taking and approving such an initiative as this, which complements our order, with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, known as the New York Convention of 2006, as well as the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and, in particular, with Articles 21 and 26, relating to non-discrimination and the integration of persons with disabilities. Certainly, it is not a side initiative, but a step further, which is attached to what we have already done and we have done at the length of our history and what we want to do in the immediate future. In Catalonia, we have always been ahead of many areas that have to do with the recognition and protection of people's rights. If we make a rest of all the laws approved in the sphere of private law, especially in civil law, from the adaptation of the compilation of the civil law of Catalonia to the Constitution, in 82, we will find that we have not ceased to work to offer and put to the abst of citizenship some of them as rigorous, elaborate, adient, and above all, just as possible. In the same way, we have also been attentive to the needs that have arisen in the si of our society, to the evolution of these needs, pushing and adapting our right, whenever it has been necessary, to give response to these changing needs of our citizens. In this sense, as Llei 25/2010 of 29 July 2010 recalls, the book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to the person and the family, which was already resolved and, therefore, applied the principles of the New York Convention of 2006 in collecting a diversity of rules for the protection of persons with disabilities, linked or not to the figure of disability, and in affirming that the references of the book to disability and persons with disabilities must be interpreted in agreement with the United Nations Convention, in the sense of the least possible restriction of personal autonomy. This sensitivity was also raised to the laws approved by this Parliament during the previous parliamentary term in the field of civil law. First of all, the Law 3/2017, of 15 February, of the book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to obligations and contracts, did not only put at the bottom of people a wide range of contractual types – the most paradigmatic of all is the sale, with a modern, current, dynamic regulation, adapted to the rules of the European Union and which is at the height of the most advanced European legislations –, also allowed us to attend to the demand of families who are in charge of people with modified capacity, deprived of the right of active and passive suffrage, in the judicial process of modification of the capacity, in the sense that the judicial authority is required to pronounce expressly on the person's ability to decide. Shortly thereafter, the Law 10/2017, of 27 June, of digital volunteers, wanted to make available to people a tool that we have not yet had. Both the Law of the Book of the Civil Code, relating to obligations and contracts, and the Law of the Digital Wills have been objected to by the Government of the State. Wider in the first case and narrower in the second. In this case..., situation before which I can only refer again and explicitly ask that we defend the exclusive competence of this Parliament in the matter of civil law. And call again for the withdrawal of one and the other appeals. But, said that, I also seem to note from 2018, that the Congress of Deputies is considering the desirability of removing altogether the restrictions of the right of suffrage that still affect people with their modified ability and that is also being processed in that chamber, therefore, the state regulation of digital wills. First of all, I would like to thank you for following this Parliament and, second of all, to remind you that you do not invade the competences of this Parliament and, therefore, the competences that we have with the country. The Law of the Book sisè, of digital wills, and the draft law that I present today are recent examples of the work that has been done and is being done in the case of the Commission of Codification of Catalonia, the body affiliated to the Department of Justice, which objects to the elaboration of proposals for revision, updating and development of the private law of Catalonia, in particular of the civil law. I take this opportunity to move them forward today, here, that in the next few days we will proceed to renew the Codification Commission and the organs that integrate it. And what we will do, for the first time in its history, in a totally equal manner. An example that I hope will also follow other coding commissions. Not only that, but, unlike the previous legislatures, we will re-activate and appoint the Section of Person and Family, and we will do so from the sensitivities that commented on them, with the will to answer all the questions that affect equality, the rights and interests of people, in a changing society. With the will to answer the questions of genera, the rights of infants, children, the new forms of family and the protection of old age, among other objects. As I have advanced, the bill that I present today comes from an initiative of this Parliament, which is again about the concerns and just demands that people and social groups make them and ask us to deepen our implementation of the 2006 United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And also, as I said before, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which, as it could not otherwise be, bet on inclusiveness and non-discrimination of all people. It is an initiative taken for this Parliament, with the maximum consensus among all parliamentary groups, that the Government has studied and worked to return it back to Parliament, with the will and hope to maintain this full consensus in its handling, and with the desire that we can celebrate all, together, its approval. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.122.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then, as long as there is no mention of the totality, we will proceed to open a turn of interventions, to fix the positioning of the groups, for a maximum of two minutes for each group, and five for the parliamentary subgroups. It has the word, in the first place, the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, through the Lord Martín Eusebio Barra, when vulgui.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.123.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Councillor, the Government and the department in particular, the Department of Justice, presents us with a draft law amending the fourth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, in order to guarantee equal rights and non-discrimination for persons with sensory disabilities. First, to state that any bill that seeks to guarantee equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with disabilities can count on the cooperation of Citizens. In this case, this bill, as you have already explained to you, is aimed at people with sensory disabilities, and as the explanatory statement indicates, basically two objectives are proposed, which we fully share. First, in its first expression, it is..., contained in the current Catalan Civil Code, which uses terminology that at the time could be acceptable and of common use, but that its disappearance from the legal framework can help to prevent the stigmatization of these people. Secondly, remove the restrictions laid down in the current Catalan Civil Code, so that these persons may carry out acts of a succession nature, such as granting a will, ordering last wills or acting as witnesses in the wills of others. In this case, even assuming that these restrictions made any sense when they were put in place, it would be unfair right now to keep them. It is because technological advances make it possible to overcome disability, or simply to promote non-discrimination and equal rights of these people. The proposed amendment – you explained – reaches four articles in the fourth book, and the text will therefore already have an opportunity to discuss it in the timely presentation. But, while acknowledging our agreement with the objectives of this bill, and thanking the Government for submitting it, or precisely for that, precisely because we are willing to cooperate in the proposals to improve the lives of persons with disabilities and because our group has already made proposals in this Parliament, in the same line..., precisely because of that, it is obligatory to mention to this Government that it has many, many measures pending, which seem to be asleep in the drawer of oblivion; some, for a long time, which gives almost no notice, it is almost embarrassing to mention it. For example, much remains to be done to bring Catalan legislation into line with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which you mentioned. Convention which, as you have said, was promulgated in 2006, but which has been part of our legal system since 2008, ten years ago. This same bill contributes, in part, to such harmonization, but much remains to be done. For example, on issues of accessibility, on issues of inclusive work, in inclusive school, logically endowed to be able to give attention, the attention these people deserve. Yes, some of these pending measures would require budgetary input, but others would not. Others, as with this measure they bring us today, would have a zero cost to the Administration. Therefore, we do not understand, we do not understand the delay in its implementation. The law of personal autonomy, does it ring a bell? It was promised at the time of Councillor Cleries – Councillor Cleries – ; then Councillor Munté ; then, Councillor Bassa, and now, Councillor El Homrani..., I would be grateful if you would mention it. I am sure that Councillor El Homrani knows that this law is stuck, I imagine that his predecessor would tell him in which drawer of his department is sleeping the dream of the righteous, for years. Finally, I would like to thank you, please, for asking Councillor El Homrani to wake her up, to wake her up, to wake her up, to wake her up, to wake her up. Accessibility law, does it ring a bell? It was adopted in 2014, should sound like it. But still without regulations, four years and still without regulations, what are you waiting for? Look, it may be until the Holy Family is finished, before you make the regulation of this law and the Holy Family does not meet the criteria of the law, do not neglect. And look that, to finish the Holy Family... The Catalan Sign Language Act, adopted in 2010, also sounds to them. When do you plan to fully deploy it? Let's give you an example, a patient who needs a sign language interpreter, asks and accompanies you to request an appointment with your doctor. Well, once you have the date, you have to reapply for an interpreter to accompany you that day, and you don't know if there's going to be. The day of the appointment comes, there is no interpreter, and you have to ask again for what to accompany you to change the appointment, to ask again when you are given a new appointment..., something simply unfair. But it is also that if we think for example of the province of Lleida, the largest, where distances are greater, there is only one sign language interpreter for the whole province. Is this how we contribute to the social integration of persons with disabilities? And I would appreciate it if you would comment – but neither..., you had to go out to do your jobs – to Mrs Artadi who surprised, surprised: yes, of course there are laws passed in this Parliament, which the Constitutional Court has appealed to them for invasion of competences, which they said did not invade those of this Parliament, others. But surprise, surprise: there are laws passed, that are not appealed, and that you comply with them. How much longer do we have to wait? In fact, I should not have sought much to find references to the needs of persons with disabilities that you leave unmet. Look, this very plenary..., in this same plenary we will have another valid example: tomorrow afternoon the motion presented by the Ciutadans Group on the start of the school year will be discussed. This Parliament, Councillor, has been blocked by you for so long that, since the question was put, it has started the school year, the motion is not yet debated and it has not been 155, I guarantee you, it has been you. It will be discussed tomorrow, as I say, and among the points we propose, namely point 7, it called for ensuring that all pupils with hearing disabilities who so request have sign language interpreters. And what was your response, so concerned about helping people with sensory disabilities? Sure, I don't know what they're gonna vote for tomorrow. Sure. But, for the time being, they have tabled a replacement amendment. A replacement amendment says: "Guarantee the resources for pupils with special educational needs arising from hearing impairment to continue to receive an education... What‘do they continue to receive? That they continue as they are, that they have no interpreters? Is that your proposal? And I guess tomorrow we'll get the tax deficit and the budget problems, the typical usual excuse. Do you know how much this measure would cost? About 350,000 euros. Don't you have them? Man, yeah, I'm gonna repeat myself, saving on chiringuitos, right? Let's see, now another advice on what, total for nothing – for nothing –. Yeah, I know they won't charge, but there'll be expenses, sure. Again in preparation for a forum of your own? Totally, for nothing. If we already know the experience of what has happened so far, with so many forums and so many advisory advices. Remember the hamster wheel? Another forum, now, to think which country they want. But it's been like this for ten years. And no, look, you could also save a little trip to Waterloo, Mr. President – you could also comment, if you do me the favor – because, totally, for nothing. If we already have experience with your predecessor. What are you preparing? Another headlight play, as Councilwoman Ponsatí said? Look, getting those euros to, for example, approve this measure that we propose to you is possible. And then, yes, then they could say that people with hearing disabilities are concerned about them. For the time being, this bill to amend the fourth book will be dealt with, but they still have a lot to do – they have a lot to do – in the area of non-discrimination and the pursuit of equality for persons with disabilities. Don't let any more time pass, please. Put yourself to work on these needs, which have been waiting a long, long time. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.124.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress, Ms. Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.125.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members and Members, the modification of the free quarter of the Civil Code of Catalonia that we will approve today in this plena of Resolution 683/11 of this same Parliament, on equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities. Specifically, this resolution called for the amendment of section 421.10, section 2, to remove the requirement for testimony in the notarial will, section 421.14, section 5, to remove the prohibition of making a will close, and section 421.11, section 2b, to remove the prohibition of checks, deaf and mute in order to be witnesses. In the end, it also changed the 421.8. But we can say that the need for this change does not only come from this resolution of the last legislature, it is earlier and much more general. We can say that the conviction of the need for right-wing equipping and non-discrimination of persons with disabilities is every time more present in all spheres and, therefore, it is essential to make the necessary legal modifications to collect this general will. It's said that the law went one step back to respect society, and in this case, maybe that's it. It is entirely unthinkable that discrimination or non-equalization in the rights of all people, especially those who suffer from some type of sensory disability and that the limitations that this entails, these disabilities, are currently easily overcome, so the regulations cannot fail to reflect this will of our society. This non-discrimination has already made clear to the United Nations Convention, as the Councillor commented earlier, on the rights of persons with disabilities, signed in New York on 13 December 2006 and ratified by Spain on 23 November 2007, so that we must compliment the courts and that we need to adapt our legislation. This conviction obliges states parties to recognize that all persons are equal before the law and by virtue of it, and that they have equal legal protection and that they have equal rights to benefit from the law without discrimination. It also obliges them to prohibit all discrimination on grounds of disability and to guarantee all persons with disabilities equal and effective legal protection against discrimination for any reason. The equality that is proclaimed in this conviction is effective in all facets of life, including that referred to in the decision making. And we think it's important to refer to Article 12 of this New York Convention, when it comes to equal recognition as the person before the law. And so it reaffirms the recognition of legal personality and legal capacity, on equal terms with others in all aspects of life, of persons with disabilities. And, in this sense, appropriate measures should be adopted, says the conviction, to provide access to persons with disabilities to the recovery they may need in the exercise of their legal capacity, ensuring in these measures adequate and effective safeguards to avoid abuse. These safeguards will ensure that measures relating to the exercise of legal capacity respect the rights, will and preferences of the person. They will also ensure that there are no conflicts of interest or undue influences, which are proportionate and adapted to the circumstances of this case. We understand, therefore, that the modification of our free quarter of the Civil Code, which we are dealing with today, is on the line of this conviction. In fact, in the statement of reasons, it is said: "The purpose of the law is to place persons with sensory disabilities on equal terms with other persons, for which it does in the exercise of their rights, at the time of securing a will before a notary and of being able to intervene as witnesses in the act of lifting the will for another person. Also suppressed, with this modification of the entire Civil Code, certain expressions that identify people as deaf, mute or blind, which would help to eliminate stigmatization. And it's that we understand that people with sensory disabilities can manifest their will in a conscious and free way so that they can make decisions about themselves or their heritage with full ability to understand and discern. Their sensory deficiencies, as the bill says, can be supplemented by non-verbal communication alternatives and by technological means that would be the safeguards of which the United Nations Convention speaks. In short, from the Socialist Group and Forward Units, we need to understand the change that we are making today. It is a logical legislative consequence of the application of international texts. But we would ask one more step: we would ask the Government to entrust the Codification Commission with conducting a study on the application of the New York Convention in all areas of Catalonia's civil law and the possible improvements in the current law. Let us think, for example, of incapacity, its regulation is basically in the Spanish Civil Code and the Civil Law, but we believe that Catalonia should rethink the abst of its effects, that they are regulated in the Civil Code of Catalonia. And not only in the Civil Code, but also in the context of the measures contained in the sectoral laws which are precisely aimed at eliminating the difficulties faced by people with disabilities. We have work to do, she advises, to achieve the ultimate objective, that which is gathered in paragraph 1 of the United Nations Convention, which speaks of promoting, protecting and ensuring full enjoyment and on conditions of equality of all human rights and fundamental freedoms to all persons with disabilities and promoting their inherent dignity. Today, we take a step, but we have to keep walking. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.126.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Subsequently, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão, the deputy Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.127.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Counselor, good morning. "Disability is a concept that evolves and results from integration between people with disabilities and barriers that are responsive to the attitude and the environment that prevent full and effective participation in society on equal terms with others. United Nations Convention. New York, September 13, 2006. That's why we're here. We are here to adapt our legislation, concretely, our Civil Code to an international conviction. To an international belief that it was necessary to fight, precisely, against discrimination against people with some type of sensory disability. And, obviously, European legislation has already collected this glove. We are therefore also acting in a manner consistent with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and, in concrete terms, with the European Disability Strategy 2010-2020. Moreover, as the Councillor has explained, we have a parliamentary mandate. A mandate that gave us Resolution 683/11, of May 25, 2017, of this Parliament, on equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities. Therefore, I think we must be happy today, because, in the end, I know that it sometimes costs, but a parliamentary resolution and a government initiative is complete. It's true that sometimes there are things that come late, but if they do, welcome are. Here, clearly, the one we are going to change, strictly – it has been explained, but I also want to repeat – are those precepts of the free quarter of the Civil Code of Catalonia, so as to equip the rights of disabled people, and this change is due to the term of a law, to the rank of the rule that is modified. Specifically, we are going to achieve these objectives, modifying the current drafting of several articles – four articles, in concrete form – of the book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, with the aim of eliminating any discriminatory treatment of persons with sensory impairment in testamentary matters. And to add, to end, that it is dealt with, therefore, that in the field of civil law a person with sensory disability is treated– and I remarry: it is treated– just as anyone who does not have the capacity modified judicially is aware of it. Since our parliamentary group, we have supported this process. I'm sure we'll find each other, and I'm sure that when we finally approve of this law, we'll have a joyous motif. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.128.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Next, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of CUP - Constituent Creed, the Lady Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.129.0	Yeah, we'll come in from the escó. First of all, to say that the CUP, from this plenary, we have taken the decision not to collaborate with symbolic or rhetorical parliamentarianism, that this will mean that we will only participate in those proposals and in those decisions that really have a real and effective translation for the majority of the population, in those in which there is a social movement organized later and in those that encourage the critical experience and organization of the citizenry, taking into account that we understand that this Parliament is absolutely empty of content and that the majority of things that we approve do not finish having a practical translation. That said, and respect this proposal, we stand in favour of it. In the first place, because there is a social movement organized in defense of people with disabilities and their rights. Secondly, because we understand that this legislative change does encourage this critical spirit and that it makes us see and teach that the current legislation is absolutely unfair; and we also take advantage of it to give all our support to all those people and companies who have been quoted to declare before the courts for having protested precisely before the High Court of Justice for being able to modify these unfair laws through the political instrument of disobedience. And lastly, because this legislative change also has a real and effective impact and will eventually change the Civil Code of Catalonia. Although I say this, it is not a measure, in any case, transformative or that..., what it does is pose in question how this Civil Code of Catalonia and the Spanish Civil Code promote a system that it does is blatantly promote inequalities between a minority and a large majority that in patim consequences them. Finally, and as a point of view, to say that the terms 'deaf, mute, cec or deafmuts', for themselves, must not, in any case, be a minor or a minor, but that what must be a minor is that we do not know how to read that persons with sensory impairment, with sensory impairment, have a full capacity to decide and act in order to be able to endure certain legal acts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.130.0	Thank you, sir. Subsequently, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Ms. Andrea Levy. Also from the escó?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.131.0	All right. From the point of view of voting, that, as we did with the motion for a resolution, we would therefore vote in favour, because we believe that it is appropriate, that it is just and that it is adhering at the moment that we are making this change in terminology and that, therefore, the Civil Code of Catalonia, while we share, of the initial interventions of some groups, the fact that this change is late and that there are many other legislative projects that are also late and that, therefore, the Government would do well to work on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.132.0	Thank you, Mrs. Levy. Next is the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Congresswoman Magda Casamitjana.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.133.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies... First of all, to the Lord of Ciutadans: today we are talking about the modification of the codification of the fourth book, and today we are effective and real – this time yes – and more so we are presenting it here, a proposal made already for the previous Parliament. Therefore, dialog, participation and return the dignity of people. Let's talk about this today, Congressman. We've set ourselves up and we don't stop taking steps to do one more little thing every day, day after day. This bill submitted by the Councillor for Justice aims to modify the fourth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia to ensure equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities. As has already been said, the Commission of Justice, at its meeting on 27 May 2017, debated and approved the text of this motion for a resolution submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes. In that motion for a resolution – it was also said – the Catalonian Parliament urged the Government of the Generality to study but also to present, as today, the modification of the Civil Code of Catalonia in order to make the rights that have been expressed. First of all, therefore, thank you very much, will advise, to make effective, real – effective – the mandate of Parliament. As the Councillor has already pointed out, this bill of law should have already been approved by the last legislature, but the implacable 155 interrupted its processing and approval in the terms that the Councillor Mundó – welcome, Councillor Mundó – had agreed to. Note that this resolution has been driven by associations defending the rights of people suffering from sensory disabilities, and therefore thank them and congratulate them for contributing to this modification of the Civil Code. In the statement of reasons, which has already been explained, it explains very well and very well what is the objective that is presented today, not only for what it does to the rights of people with sensory disabilities on this topic, but also for which language has been better adapted and expressions that can contribute to the stigma that comes from this disability and that is likely, many times, to an extensive degree and classification. I want to thank the government, the whole government, each of the councillors, for fighting against the stigmatization of people with some kind of disability. We'll do it again today. We agree with the Counsellor when she said that I sincerely believe that we all need to be able to congratulate ourselves if we move and approve such an initiative as this, which implements in our order the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, known as the 2006 New York Convention. From the Republican Group we want to insist and denounce that this sensitivity and this look that we have seen today in this change are also reflected in other laws approved for this Parliament in the previous parliamentary term. I refer both to the law and the book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, as well as..., which was approved by unanimity or by a large majority of this chamber, and which have been challenged by the Government of the People's Party in the State. We are also hopeful and convinced that the new country expressed for the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, and for its president Pedro Sánchez in particular, makes it withdraw the appeal that holds them and restores them, knowing that the Parliament of Catalonia, as the Councillor has said, is that it has exclusive competence in the matter of civil law. Therefore, we ask the Socialist Party group here in Parliament to bring this petition and complaint to its party and government partners, in order to unravel this absolute irregularity. Counsellor, thank you very much for facilitating and making effective the parity in the Commission de Codificazione de Catalunya. We want the Spanish State, as you said, to follow our passes. We demand, like the feminist party, the match and the equality of the whole race. The gaze of the half of the population, the female, must always be – always – present, in all the organs, not only of decision, but of resolution and participation. We want to denounce from here that it is completely unacceptable, today, any kind of discrimination towards people, and even more so when it comes to concrete aspects to which, today, technology gives an adequate response. Even the undeniable advent of many governments, of many legislatures, in the situation people with disabilities have experienced in the past few years, still persists in a sequence of deficiencies that can be considered as indicators of inequality and/or discrimination and incomplete enjoyment of the rights that correspond to them as individuals. Today, thank you, he will advise the government, for, little by little, step by step, going better. Let us not forget that people with disabilities in Spain – also in Barcelona, also in Catalonia, I suppose also in the world – constitute the sector of the citizenry with the lowest rates of social inclusion and regular access and normalization to rights, benefits and services. Today we are equivalent to the rest. Laws must recognize people with disabilities the same rights as the rest of people. Entities have been calling for a change of legislation for years, and we all know that we have formed a part of the commissions of Children or Social Affairs, because they believe that their rights are being violated. We've changed and we're looking at one of these violations. As far as the Notaris College is concerned, these limitations do not have any reason to be, and if they are unnecessary, for obsolete, they end up being discriminatory. So, today, one more step. Deputies and deputies, laws can be adapted, they can be changed. It is a social success that people are making listen and that policies materialize requests and evidence. Laws can be changed, laws can be adapted. It is not just the law to evolve and adapt, but it is also the gaze, above all that gaze that we, the groups on the left of this Parliament, of this Government, want to have. It's not just the law; it's also, counsel, as you know, dialogue and dignity. The important thing is the rose, deia el Bécaud. We never forget that. Good morning, political companies and companies; good morning, exiled and exiled companies and companies. You're not suns. Good morning, everyone. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.134.0	Thank you, Mrs. Casamitjana. To finish this turn of interventions, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.135.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable councillors, honourable councillors, good morning to everyone. Our civil law is heavily behind the country, but the Civil Code of Catalonia was born with a very present look at the modern trends of international law and has become one of the most innovative in Europe. The nuclear principle of Catalan civil law is that of civil freedom, it respects the freedom of pacts and the freedom of the person. In the Catalan right, people are empowered to do everything that the law does not expressly prohibit. Civil law is the right of people and affects the day to day of any city. It is the right that regulates the fundamental aspects of our life, but it also forms part of the mentality of Catalans and the identity of Catalonia. Among the rights that set us up as a nation – history, language, culture, willingness to pursue – there is a prominent place in the right, and specifically in the civil right. Catalonia has, historically, a similar civil right; in fact, it began to collect from the middle of the 13th century, and from then on it was considered the definitive redaction until the 15th century, when the Catalan compiler movement began. The relation of this right to Catalonia was so profound that even all the decrees of the New Plant of the monarch's predecessor recently failed by this chamber – and we still did not know the facts of his monarchy friend of Saudi Arabia – they were forced to keep it and respect it, just like the franchise. It is, therefore, a fact that defines us as a nation with historical continuity and a Catalonian legal personality. Perhaps for this reason, despite the development of a competence, such as the Councillor, exclusive to the State, the subsequent compilation of our civil rights has not been exempt from the attacks of the Central Government through the Constitutional Court, with the correspondents suspensions of its application, to the detriment of the citizenry. Up to five unconstitutionalities, three of them rejected, but there are still two pending remedies: against the free choice of contracts, against the Law of Digital Wills; that we add to the girl petitions, both for the councillor and for the Republican Group, of its immediate withdrawal. Our project for this country – and I think it shares for most of this chamber – is that of a cohesive society, with equal opportunities for all, and also equal rights for all its citizens. But because this equality is possible it is possible to eradicate any class of inequality and discrimination. The Civil Code of Catalonia allows the right to be updated and reformed according to the evolution of society, and must be done in the open code mode; in fact, the different books have been approved and incorporated at different times, in a flexible and undistorted way. It is in this mark that we begin the process of the Bill of Law amending the fourth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, in order to guarantee the equality of rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities. The purpose of the law, as has already been said – but obviously we would reiterate it because you make clear the position of our group, Together for Catalonia – is to place people with sensory disabilities on equal terms with the other people for whom you make the exercise of your rights at the time of setting up a will before you notice or being able to intervene as witnesses in a will attached to another person. People with sensory disabilities are those who suffer from either a visual or auditory or verbal impairment or impairment that limits their ability to communicate expressively and receptively. I, in order to meet their specific needs, it is appropriate to take the appropriate measures to achieve equal treatment and equal opportunities in the exercise of the rights and rights as citizens. First of all, the deletion of the words collected from the Catalan Civil Code identifying persons, as has already been said, as deaf, blind, changed or deafmuds, because their disappearance can help to eliminate the social stigma resulting from this disability. Secondly, the law aims to remove the restrictions that the Catalunya Civil Code establishes on persons with sensory disabilities at the time of performing acts of natural succession, and to place them on the same level as those who do not have such disabilities at the time of entering into wills or intervening as witnesses. It is, therefore, that, in the area of civil law, a person with sensory impairment is treated the same as anyone else feels; that the fact of having a certain pathology does not have to constitute a limitation at the time of carrying out acts with legal effectiveness. Physical illness or dysfunction is not for it itself a criterion for determining whether or not a person is able to bind a will in this case or intervene as witnesses. The law, therefore, eliminates with general character the restrictive criteria that presupposed the relevance to the collection of persons with sensory disabilities, and leaves it to the notari who, in each case, and as always, according to the personal circumstances of the speaker, values which is his ability to understand and his communicative abilities, to comply with the general rules of the Civil Code and, naturally, of notarial legislation. It is, in short, to modify the provisions of the Civil Code of Catalonia, which establish restrictions on persons with sensory disabilities who may qualify as discrimination in this will field. These are people who can perform legal acts with full effectiveness, since the pathology that affects their senses does not restrict their self-government. They are people who can manifest their conscious will, free, and have the ability to understand and discern to make decisions in the personal or heritage sphere with any other person. At present, with technological advances, there is no justification for maintaining specific limitations on the Civil Code for the collection of persons with sensory disabilities. These faults can be filled perfectly with communication alternatives that bring equivalent reliability and legal certainty. With the effect, moreover, that the collective legislation of persons with a dysfunction in their senses was discriminatory. This law implements the 2006 United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which forms part of the Spanish legal system, like all international treaties, through articles 10 and 96 of the Constitution. The text of the Convention expressly states that disability is a concept that evolves and that results from integration between persons with disabilities and barriers to action and the environment that prevent full and effective participation in society on equal terms with others, as previously explained by the Nuet deputy of the group of commons. This law also compliments the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which establishes the principles of non-discrimination because of disability and the integration of persons with disabilities. The European Commission also approved the document establishing the European Disability Strategy 2010-2020, which aims to make it possible for disabled people to enjoy all their rights, as well as to benefit from their participation in society. In the line of these precedents, this law claims that persons with sensory disabilities do not suffer discrimination because of their disability in the exercise of the rights and freedoms that correspond to them as citizens in the field of Catalan civil law. On this initiative, the Government compliments Resolution 683/XI of 25 May 17 of the Catalan Parliament on equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities, which Parliament urged the Government to study and present the modification of the Civil Code, which today is the one we are debating and bringing before this chamber in order to achieve the right of non-discrimination of persons with this disability in the matter of will. To achieve the objective of this resolution is to modify the current drafting of several articles of the book fourth of the Civil Code of Catalonia, as the councilwoman very well specified, with the aim of eliminating any discriminatory treatment of persons with sensory impairment in will matter. This is, therefore, a resolution, one more, of the later parliamentary term which was only to be seen with the process. Or maybe it is? Because if anything goes the independence process is about non-discrimination of people and equal rights of the citizens of Catalonia. Free political prisoners and free return to all exiles! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.136.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, and as long as they have not, as we say before, submitted papers to the whole, this initiative continues its processing. [[Proposition of territorial rationalisation law and abolition of the District Council of Barcelones (debate of totality)]] [[202-00015/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which, in this case, is the debate on the proposal for a law on territorial rationalization and suppression of the District Council of Barcelona. The fact is that the Board of Spokesmen agreed that the debate, this debate, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, is founded together with the following points– is to say, on the 5th and the 6th –, which refer to the Proposition of the Ordering Law of the District Map of Catalonia and the Transposition of the Functions, the Services, the Personnel, the Benefits, the Rights and Obligations of the County Council of Barcelones, presented for the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group to Advance, and the Proposition of the Suppression Law of the County Council of Barcelones, presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Juntes per Catalunya. It is to say that we would merge the debates into a sun of all these initiations. Therefore, according to Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, they will present the initiatives, first of all, the parliamentary groups proposing for a maximum of five minutes each, according to the one granted at the later Board of Spokespersons. I, in the first place, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.137.0	President, absent members of the Government, interested in this territorial change and this proposal of law of Ciutadans, councillor of the district of Barcelonès..., when one finds before a debate of totality, for the second time in a year and a half, has two options: one, recover all the arguments that we have already defended in its moment and introduce them again in these five minutes merged of time, or, the second option, is to ask us why we are making this debate a year and a half later on the same topic, when we could perfectly have avoided this past. It is more than necessary to deal with this law, because it is obvious that the suppression of the District Council of Barcelona, therefore, has after a unanimity of groups and an obvious proposal of the same entity that we believe is enough for it to have been approved in an agile and dynamic way. Therefore, this law, which is innovative in Catalonia because, instead of creating a new ‘xiringuite, entity, thing..., what it does is simplify and rationalize this cluster of sums that have taken place for a long time. But why are we here? Why are we here now and so? So look, here I have the issue of an appeal to the Constitutional Court in October 2017 for our group, for my group. We presented him for the violation of our fundamental rights produced by the decision of the president of this Parliament not to convene the full set for the 20th and 21st of September, 4th and 5th of October and 18th and 19th of October of 2017– full set. And why is this appeal important in this debate? Because this law, which has already been completed – and many of us here know this – had to be approved in one of these parts. In fact, I had to go to the 20th. They're shutting down Parliament. They left the freezer with the Catalans' needs a little more. And this law is a shameful example of that. You're obvious. They didn't care about the mass or the opinion of the council's workers, the pressures they put on us when they told us that you were "squeezing..., well. They did make us "squeeze," "squeeze," "squeeze," "squeeze," "to approve this law, but it wasn't enough." Neither the unanimity of the forces of the same district council, nor all the problems that this institution has accumulated and continues to accumulate over the last few days. On the contrary, you decided that on the 20th you would do something else. They had to set up the Economics Council with a judicial commission and the Civil Guard inside, because it was more interesting this political action than making a ple to approve this law. And this is an example of what you stopped thanking the process. But, well, someone had to work in this Parliament and we waited a few months, but as they did not present this law in this legislature, we did a very simple thing, which is to go and ask, our group, to the district council that you present a young man, which was approved unanimously on June 27, where the Parliament was invited to do its work. Just do his job. I don't know if they know her, but this young man who passed the 27th of June to whom he invited us all is that we present these laws, these texts. And we did it. We've done it. And today we are here with this law, in extraordinary urgency, that it is redesigning a series of essential objectives. Obviously, it's a disgrace, a pity I don't have time to explain them all. But, first of all, I think we should discuss this law and approve it to advance us to the labor and economic consequences that we would not expect to do before the 2019 municipal elections. Secondly, we believe that it is important to create an instrument that can rationalize forty years of sums, heads and administrative heads in Catalonia. One example: a city of Murcia has for over three administrations only, a city that lives in Barcelona or Hospitalet in tea set – one of them that doesn't work because we made a law of vetoes that doesn't work – but well, it's the same. You make laws and then you will apply them, someone will apply them some day. So I think we should assume these mistakes. Our model is clear, but we are also very clear that you and this Government, which is not here – already demonstrate your interest in the territorial model of Catalonia – will not devote much less to eliminating or rationalizing, therefore, the administrative and territorial reality of our autonomous community. We will try; we will try to be escorted some day, and we will try that this Parliament can move forward in the line of administrative rationalization...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.138.0	Time's up, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.139.0	Yes, President, I'm done. I'm done, it's only five minutes to talk about something so important. No more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.140.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Proposal for an orderly law on the regional map of Catalonia and the transfer of functions, services, staff, benefits, rights and obligations of the District Council of Barcelona (debate of totality)]] [[202-00016/12]] It is now the return of Mrs Marta Moreta's Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.141.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs– there is no councillor, no councillor– on March 2017 the District Council of Barcelona unanimously approved a motion from all political groups of the district council: the beginning of the transposition process to other public administrations of the functions and services of the District Council of Barcelona. To remember that, unanimously, there were no groups present in this chamber that presented a totality of the proposals of the law. It is important to highlight the word 'unanimity', which has not been seen in this Chamber in the past. Unfortunately, we have the opportunity to give effect to the democratic will of the District Council of Barcelones. What we are clear about is the common goal in this process of ensuring full transparency and accountability and being an example of rigour and good public management. I think it is a waste to put in value the task of the District Council of Barcelona that has been working since 1988 in the municipalities of Badalona, Barcelona, the Hospitallet de Llobregat, Sant Adrià del Besòs and Santa Coloma de Gramenet. With thirty years of history, the district council has exercised jurisdiction over the territory; it has managed social services, sports and teaching; it has promoted activities and programmes aimed at young people; it has created the Regional Centre for the Care of Company Animals; it has carried out regeneration works and urban improvement; it has promoted and managed official protection habitats, urban parks and public facilities; and it has completed key functions for the territory such as the development of the green round and the comprehensive maintenance of the Barcelona round. The Parliament of Catalonia has provided various measures to reorganise the territorial organization of Catalonia among which it approved on July 27, 2010 of the Law of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, with which it is created a supramunicipal administration in which various functions and competences are assigned that are developed in the territory in thirty-six municipalities, among which the total of those that integrate the County Council of Barcelones. The reform of the territorial organization and of the local world in Catalonia saw a new parliamentary impulse on September 3, 2013, when the Catalonian Parliament admitted to the bill of local governments. This reform of the local world had to have an impact on the entire Catalan territorial area, and directly affected the District Council of Barcelones, as it questioned the need for this to exist in the metropolitan area. To remember that all the political groups that submitted papers to the bill expressed their agreement with the dissolution of the District Council of Barcelona. Unfortunately, August 2015 ended the new parliamentary term in Parliament without having concluded the parliamentary process of approval of the new Local Government Bill, and therefore the bill fell by the end of the parliamentary term, even though the plethora of this Parliament had already approved a motion on June 30, 2017. And it is curious that a failure of a parliamentary mandate does not scandalise anyone, no Members, no Members, no Members, no Bureau of Parliament, no Councillors or communication media. Without losing sight, and in this context of legislative changes that promote new territorial boundaries and the restructuring of different levels of administration existing in the metropolitan area, the District Council of Barcelones has intensified the work of rationalisation, simplification and health and management, technical and economic. Now, the process of transferring the functions and competencies of the group, the District Council of Barcelones, should be chaired by the principles of guarantee to the citizenry in favor of improvement, rationalisation and sustainability of all the services and activities currently provided by the district administration. Finally, President, I would like to say something about my intervention, but I would like to point out that with the end of these months in the proposal for a law abolishing the District Council of Barcelones, we can now act swiftly. That is why it is also important that we modify the working period of the dissolution committee, and that we continue to do so in three months and not in six, as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.142.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Proposal for a law abolishing the District Council of Barcelona (debate of totality)]] [[202-00024/12]] Then, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.143.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, so we will actually be again: we will be here again to talk about the law of containment, as said by the County Council of Barcelones. And I think Congresswoman Moreta, in addition, has made an excellent chronology of events, right? , which shares principles to end. So I won't mention it any more. But, of course, we're here and someone has tried to say that if this is our fault, that we didn't do... it's so surreal, and even with the Barcelona County Council you don't leave the monotheme, huh? , Mr. García; even here you are: monotheme, monotheme and monotheme. Who shut down Parliament was 155, it was you. And they hired the President of the Parliament and they hired the General Councillors and entered the institutions of the Generality of Catalonia by closing them, suppressing self-government and closing the Parliament. So, you... I think you're especially aware that this went like this. But more than anything... no, I didn't want to go in there, in these, say, cockroaches, in other words, if you want to tell us, but it's that the lockdown, the final approval of the law of the District Council of Barcelones had to go to the plenary on September 6th and 7th, you have to remember it well. I remember well, because together for Yes we were the only ones, the only parliamentary group that insisted that we should go to the plenary on September 6th and 7th and take advantage of the session period, the last fortnight of August, to make the Governance Committee, approve the definite text and bring it to the first plenary. You were-you were against doing it like that. You and all, huh? We were together for the Yes, the ones who stayed alone defending him because he actually approved the 6th and the 7th. In fact, it would have been approved, and the procedure to close the District Council of Barcelones would have been... but, well, as you always focus, always, on the monotheme... It's just the same, you don't have to go in there anymore. The last legislature we did a good job, though, and I think that we worked very well on the question, in this case – in the case of the Socialist Group – with Mrs. Martínez, with Marc Vidal, on behalf of the Initiative; in this case, with Ciutadans, it was the same Mr. Joan García, but well..., with Mr. Villagrasa and even with Nana, with Joan Garcia, of the CUP, who was the president, in addition, in his turn, of the Board of Governors – and with Joan Ramon Casals, who together with Junts for the Yes, we worked on this bill. And we had a great deal of agreement, in fact we have a closed text. And we, who are worded people, say, what we recorded is the text of the agreement that we arrived at unanimously, which is such an important word, that Mrs Moreta said, and I agree. We literally did not present our proposal, say, to modify the law we had, but the final proposal that we agreed on in the question all the groups, for so much that there were things – and you must remember – that we were discussing. We have presented that text: it is not the case either of the Socialist Party or of Ciutadans, who have resubmitted a text that has nothing to do with what we agreed to pose with... well, I don't know if to start again the debates or not. In any case, the February of the 17th, the district council approves a motion for unanimity to close the district council. Now I could say, "That's what led to the Republican Left, which is right, huh? But it's just that I'm a little interested in who pushed it. What interests me is that it was done unanimously. You're always with party and monotheme battles, but I'm interested in the end result, which is that it was approved unanimously and that we signed all the groups, driven by who pushed it – I don't care about people. In May, more than that, the work began in this Parliament. That summer, the governance council – which then, I say, the vicinity of the local government world, with Constellera Borrás in the lead – already began work with the working group to do so. We made all the appearances and closed a text proposal that is what my parliamentary group, like at least today, is doing to all of you because we have another job to do. We say, our proposal – and you know it – is based on distributing skills, creating the mixed commission; we can adjust the month's terms, I agree, because there is a primary objective, we say, that it is not to get to the top with this situation. Therefore, I place them all in your place, bearing in mind that our proposal is precisely what we were going to approve on the question, so...... be agile. I think the appearances were made: we held the representatives of the workers, we held the political representatives – certainly, representatives of the workers, both of RASSA, Queen as of the same council that today accompany us, and to whom I take advantage, therefore, now, to greet. We made the comparisons, we made the debates, we have a text: so let's do it. "We want to lay down our batteries, we can close this proposal of law, and as long as we can come to the plenary, I think that in a very short and very short term – I won't say in the own plenary but we could be talking about a_me – having girl appearances and having a fete base. We put down the batteries, do it, because what we need is just passing the law to close the District Council of Barcelones. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.144.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Anna Erra has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.145.0	Many thanks, president, deputies, deputies. We have resumed, as they said, this debate again, but we must make it clear, as my Esquerra's companion said, that all this was truncated by the application of 155 and by the de facto suspension of Parliament. We got the subject back where it was, and as it was said, so too, where a strong consensus had already been reached. And we take it back after the governing bodies of the District Council of Barcelona, on March 15, approved, as was said, unanimously, so they called for the extinction of this district council. And we, together with Junts for Catalonia, want to make this commitment come true. Our proposal for law is marked and conditioned by this will of suppression, and from here to instruct the Government to make a decree so that it agrees to distribute the current competitions, activities and services of the district council and distribute them, on the basis of the agreement with the affected joints, between the remaining administrations that they can take, such as the Metropolitan Area, the Barcelona City Council, the same Generality or the other joints. And this is done, above all, by guaranteeing its services and its high quality and the rights and conditions of its workers and workers. It should be made clear that the presentation of this bill is an exceptional and special case, which is determined by the same petition for deletion. That is why I would like to make some special considerations about our model of country before this exceptionality, so as to make the country aware of the import of the comarques and the comarcal councils. The reason for this suppression is because we are listening to the territory, as we have heard a great demand on the part of the territory that a new region such as Moianès may appear, or the eve of Penedès. And now, therefore, it is up to us to listen to the district council, to make its extinction effective. Even so, it must be said that the 2010 law of creation of the Barcelona Metropolitan Area, such as the 2013 Local Government Law Project, posed in question – it is true – the competitions of this organ, since it was determined that the competitions would pass to the Barcelona Metropolitan Area. This exceptionality does not come – and we see it, therefore, with the example of Moianès and Penedès – the import like the country of the locals and the local councils. Trade unions are the identity of our country, and they are also an example of the political defense of a space and a territory. That's what they've been doing for 30 years and they're still doing it. And in businesses, the local councils currently have more sense than ever, since in the day-to-day they show to give response to two key objectives: to serve people's needs and to serve as an identity model. The local councils support the municipalities, especially the smaller ones, by providing basic services in a common way and thus ensuring the same quality of service independently of the resident municipalities. And apart from the services delegated to the Government of Catalonia, each district, after..., or the result of knowledge, proximity and adaptation to the reality of each territory, have specialized in offering us services. Outside the metropolitan area, where municipalities already have the capacity to provide all services, local councils are needed to provide basic services. To recognize the reality of the country to say that without the support of the local councils many joints could not guarantee much of its basic services. We, who defend the need to maintain the 947 municipalities of Catalonia, as inclusive and relevant actors, defend that there is a need for a local and supra-municipal administration that guarantees the equality of services and territorial balance. For this reason, and eight months after the municipal elections, it is urgent and necessary to finish the work approving this proposal of the law because it no longer constitutes after the municipalities. A process that must be done with the advice of the council and with all the agents involved, as we are talking about reformulation of how the services will continue to be provided, which will have to be done, and with the high job guarantees for the current staff. That is why, before this unique, special and exceptional case, and where it is the same district council that has decided for its own plan to cease to exist, we present this proposal of law. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.146.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. All followed is the return of Mrs Susana Segovia, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.147.0	Good morning, President, Mesa, Members, Members. I wanted to talk about what we really talk about when we talk about the policy of the legislative process of the suppression of the district council. And what are we talking about? So we're talking about municipalism, we're talking about local governments, we're talking about proximity, we're talking about putting people in the center, we're talking about building a Barcelona and a metropolitan area, more cohesive, more egalitarian, more just and sustainable, than we're talking about skewering the territory, because we need a metropolitan area that's sustainable and respectful with the rest of Catalonia. We talk about all this when we talk about the suppression of the district council, because we also talk about the ever-expected law of local governments and the deployment of potentialities that the AMB can have. As we have seen, what the AMB does and stops doing affects many aspects of the lives of millions of people living in the AMB, as we have just seen now with the effort that is being made from this institution, presided over by the Barcelona Assembly, in order to expand the integrated transport area of zone 1 to separate municipalities, which will entail a significant decrease in the cost of public transport, a measure that is sufficiently far-reaching to reduce contamination in Barcelona and throughout the area. That is all that we are also talking about, with this legislative initiative that is now beginning, and that we hope to work with responsibility and urgency on the part of all parliamentary groups. This process – it has already been mentioned – begins with a motion approved by the regional council that urges the Government of the Government of Catalonia and the Parliament to initiate this process, as well as to pass the Council's competences to other administrations. It has already been said: here we are, a year and a half later; for a change, we are also late: we are late for the September plenary, we are late for the DUI and we are late for the 155 and we are late for all the time that has gone by to get this government to work and to get this Parliament to work. I mean, the reason we're late is long and long, and we have to repeat them every time, because we're late every time. The suppression of the district council, and the integration of these functions, which was also planned – and as has already been mentioned – in the intent of the law of local governments of Catalonia of September 2013 – a new frustrated and unfinished process. This means that, for us, in our view, in this case it was a little lucky that you didn't pull forward, because it was a law that was good for the local anti-war counter-reforms and measures of the LRSAL, the People's Party, and that, instead of strengthening autonomy, the powers and sovereignty of the municipalities over their territory, it bet more quickly for the reversal of municipal powers, without accompanying a local finance law that ensures and empowers municipalism as a policy of transformation and fights against inequality. For thirty years, the regional council has done its job, yes, it has already been mentioned, in the environment, in habitats of official protection, but I can also remember, and I will not be in this, that neither has there been a council free from controversy, with lack of transparency and doubt in the management. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to work actively with the Union of Accounts and the Prosecutor's Office with the thorough investigation. It can bet firmly on transparent and rigorous local administrations in their mechanisms of presuppositional execution and public contracting. At present, the reinforcement of the Metropolitan Area makes a structure such as the district council unnecessary. At the same time, it is necessary to open a debate with decisive actions for a major and better competitive development of the Metropolitan Area in order to be able to push from now on measures of cohesion and correction of social injustices and inequalities to the metropolitan territory. The AMB cannot be merely a forum for territorial and service management, but a local government for metropolity, which is what Barcelona needs now itself and all its routings, with public policies and actions that seek the best of all these people, to the detriment of the municipality where they live, without putting the interests of the veins and the veins of a town or city over those of the coast. A more cohesive, more egalitarian, more sustainable and more responsible metropolitan area with everyone. To our understanding, and from the need for transparency, it is necessary to implement an interinstitutional transfer commission integrated for the affected communities, for the Metropolitan Area and the competent department of the Generality. A commission that would have to raise a proposal to the government to be able to make a decree working with the active participation and involvement of unions, affected assemblies and also the Metropolitan Area, of course. It is basic and practical, it is our duty to ensure that all rights and conditions of work of workers and local workers are guaranteed during this transfer. So, here, as we say, we will begin the suppression of the District Council of Barcelona, but we will continue without having a law of local governments and a law of local finance that strengthens local autonomy, so that you can make a system of stable and proportional financing, with well-defined competences for our assemblies and because you can develop with guarantees of quality and transparency in public policies. This law is necessary and claimed for decades for the municipalism of our country. We need a municipalism for the common good, which can develop and recognise the European Charter of Local Autonomy, and characterized by principles of simplification, transparency, participation and innovation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it's the turn of parliamentary subgroups. In the first place, the CUP - Call Constituent; two minutes and mig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.149.0	To speak from the escó, Mr. President. We've got two minutes and a half, yeah, we'll try to do it very quickly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.150.0	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.151.0	In the first place, it is obvious that we are not against the suppression of the County Council of Barcelones, we think that in the same area administered, political and territorial, the coincidence of large joints for one band, and for another band Barcelona and for another band the district council did not bring us more efficiency. Actually, there's been a few moments, even, of chaos. This chaos has been saved for the workers and workers of the district council. And we congratulate ourselves, yes, that we have a proposal that remains of consensus, that it is something quite strange in this chamber. Yes, there are other questions that concern us. First question that concerns us: derived from the suppression of the County Council of Barcelones, we think that it could appear in the territorial division discussion of Catalonia or the Principality and regional organization. And that shouldn't happen, it shouldn't open the moon. According to the question that concerns us: arising from the suppression of the district council, that there are not enough guarantees for the workers and the workers, that today they are the district council, and, therefore, not only guarantee of subrogation – that for us, this is a minimum that the law already establishes –, but also guarantee the maintenance of the working conditions for the joint workers and the workers who are going to join those in which they manage the activities that are done so far by the district council, and, of course, not a single elimination of a work place. And the third question that concerns us is a question of not going to bleach. Of course we have to make two things compatible, which are: that there is an effective suppression before May 2019; but, at the same time, that it is clear responsibilities not only with the regional council, but with the regional council, with Regesa or RASSA. This political group, the CUP, presented before the Anti-Fraud Office a complaint for a whole series of irregularities, and we hope that if it has not been resolved, of course, a complaint based on a report from the Union of Accounts, which speaks of irregularities in the organisation, in the accounting management, in the public contract, in the allocation of public power by agreement or in the matter of personnel, before there is this distinction of legal personality all these questions have to be resolved. We think he's totally compatible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.152.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, is the turn of Mr García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.153.0	Yes, also, Mr President, in a very short way, to state that today we come to agree, not to debate, but to agree on a proposal for dissolution; a dissolution that we believe is completely unnecessary at these times and with the current context. In fact, this proposal up to five years after the People's Party also presented this same initiative, and at that time it only got the support of the Ciutadans Group. It's totally incomprehensible. And with that it seems that we can all agree. That a city, a citizen of Barcelona, of the region of Barcelona, has six administrations that, in one way or another, have some type of influence: the Government of Spain, the Generality, the parliament, the metropolitan area, the district council and its own assembly. And more so if we speak that at these times the local council is probably endowed with a series of skills that are improper to it, that do not adjust to what the legal correct one would be, such as – for example – the case of the maintenance of the rounds. From here, state that, from the People's Party, we want to age because this process is done in a measured way, in a responsible way, but with the highest celerity and safeguarding one of the aspects that, for us, is important, that are the public employees. Here we think there has to be a commitment of responsibility on the part of all political parties, on the part of all administrations, so that's it. They pointed out some interventions, and it is true, that a series of questions remain for the path to clarify enough important ones. That accusation of irregularities still round, which is still over the table; housing promotions by Regesa that still cause a problem to its users; for example, in Badalona we have one in the bar of Sistrells that contemplates a series of deficiencies that sees them suffer, and we believe that they should be resolved before proceeding to liquidate the County Council of Barcelones. And that is why we are asking for the creation of this commission, of a commission that brings together all the administrations concerned, all the administrations that have something to say, and that proceeded to this liquidation in an orderly manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.154.0	Thank you, Congressman. As long as no totality papers have been submitted, these three initials continue to be processed. We suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon; many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.155.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. [[Proposal for a law on urgent measures to improve quality in the provision of health and social health services (debate of totality)]] [[202-00021/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The set point is the full debate on the Proposition of the Law of Urgent Measures to improve quality in the provision of health and social health services. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans presents the initiative, and to make it clear, Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.156.0	Well, very late everyone. Thank you, President. Members, Members, well, I would like to, I would very much like to greet the Government when a health proposal is being debated in this Parliament, a health bill for waiting lists. Unfortunately... well, I admit it, I felt quite deceiving when President Torra, in a few statements in July, said that all these questions, well, of the government, for them were a minor issue, are considered minor priorities. I confess, for me, it's one of the most important issues that makes you feel like you're here. This morning, Mrs. Arrimadas, she was again asking the president about the issue of waiting lists, asking him why this was all about totality, asking him for concrete questions about the waiting list and the solutions. But, unfortunately, the president, just like he already did, huh? the former president, the president Puigdemont, therefore, is neither expected nor expected. He never answers solutions like that. Imagine yourself, people, therefore, that we have seen, obviously, the patience, the anguish... He managed it, of course, of the uncertainty that professionals have when they work with patients on the waiting list – and this is a question that you see when a patient is, and also when they are healthy – so he needs measures to help... Because, in short, the waiting list is a great concern for Catalans, it is a great concern for all Catalonia. But today the government, therefore, presents a new challenge to the totality. I imagine that's because they consider it a minor issue; that the important thing has already become clear this morning: it's to create"siringuitos, it's to generate a little more of a process placement agency. Well, it's a question of not fixing the waiting list, it's a question of giving a little more to the process livers. But I would like to talk to you today about concrete aspects of the waiting list. And to do so, as I do so many times, I like it, so I find examples that show very well what we're talking about. To do this, I wanted to talk about the mother of Lucia, of Tarragona, who has a six-year-old girl with repetition otitis, with repetition hearing infection, and that her pediatrician sent her to the "otorrino" because you value what's going on in that hearing. And before yesterday he got a card giving him many months of waiting, to Tarragona. And I would like to talk, as I often do, about Santa Coloma, where we have patients such as Luis, who was two years old, who told him that his doctor was at risk of death for a morbid obesity, which requires an intervention that is not above. In particular, he addressed the Synod of Greuges, but I imagine you know that the Synod of Greuges has not answered, because it is dedicated to other questions. And so is Maria Isabel, at the age of fifty-four, a woman who gets knee surgery, because she's going through it, because she's in pain. And not up there, practically three years ago that's on the waiting list. I'd like to talk about Sandra, who, with twenty-eight years and mother of the family, also had a thigh waiting for an arthroscopy. And, unfortunately, last week he filed a complaint with the Trueta, which he said in text: "I would like to know how much time I have been waiting for, having spent already set_months, since my incorporation into the list of waits. Two years ago he was in this pain, seven months ago the trauma told him that he would have an intervention before the summer. And this intervention isn't upstairs. I, indeed, know that they will say that they are individual cases. Obviously. And it is that this law is not only for these individual cases, this law is an open door for many cases, for the case of the Catalan conjunction, in two questions, in our vision, capital: transparency and the better management, like communicating vessels. As Mrs. Arrimadas said to the President today, we cannot hear the territorial inequalities so great and so difficult that there is in Catalonia, and nothing in this Parliament. And that reminds me, in response, well, to the need of these patients, some of my promises, when I went into politics and left the consultation. And it's just that I think that some of us who come from this environment can't afford to work for patients any day without working for this waiting list. So Lucía, Luis, María Isabel, Sandra, good morning. I want to greet you and thank you for being here, so, seeing the patient. I'm an example of what, well, we want to work on, what we want to solve. Your problems are some of the problems that have brought me into politics and that have brought me here today, so with great pride, defending your interests. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] And it's that this law has also addressed issues of territorial inequality. Inés Topped this morning: « TACs, in Tarragona, have a waiting list of thirty days, and at fifteen minutes of car – I think he said so textually – « 297. Can anyone explain that to me? Well, then, today we propose different measures, management measures. Talk, huh? , economic measures, as she said, when you carry the assumptions too, because they also bring money to the health care system. But today we are focusing on management issues. There's gotta be different things to do. Why do these patients have this inequality? Well, then, this law can fix things for us, such as what Sandra gave me, which must be done with a knee surgery; if she is offered another center that has a lower waiting list, Sandra would be delighted to take this test, to have this intervention in another hospital. We open a little mind, there are people who have been ruling for many years but who can have different visions with the help, therefore, of opposition. You know that the list of waits in Catalonia, the later months, continues to increase, practically fifteen-thousand patients more than fit into this list of waits. A summer where a part of Tarragona's radiotherapy service was shut down. We have Bellvitge's radiology col·lapsada, we have infirmary deficiency, we have job insecurity... Why, then, do you all have a goal? Look, you can say it's not the best law, and I, honestly, with all the humility, will recognize you. They can tell me, because I think so, it's not the end; it's the beginning. This is the opportunity we have today, all of us, in this Parliament, to open the principle of a law that begins to fix issues that are capital, that are central, that are nuclear here in Catalonia. So, we think we need to do something to fix it. And, therefore, I ask myself, sentient today Mrs. Arrimadas and the answer – or the no answer, in any case – of our president: which part does not please, from this law, the Government? Maybe you don't like us making a management proposal? Is it perhaps not pleasing that Ciutadans, insistently, to the committees of salvation, in this plenary and today in the defense of this law, we incorporate new proposals of transparency? Is that what they don't like? That the patients, like Sandra, don't know when they're going to have an intervention? Is that what the whole thing is all about? It's that maybe it would make it a little bit easier, a little bit, because I understand that managing the waiting list is complex and, therefore, will no one ever fix it in its totality, but that would fix the Catalan waiting list a little bit? Is that the one that requires a totality puzzle? Is it possible to make life easier for the workers, our professionals? Maybe it's the Citizens who propose this law, and so, so... well, so many years running and now there's someone who's been working on the plan for us and, so, we're talking about the whole thing and we're tanking the cove, which has always been fine in the last few years? Look, what we're proposing today is good for Lucia, it's good for Maria Isabel, it's good for Sandra... but it's good for the city of Catalonia. And, therefore, we do not understand that today we do not open this door to fix, to fix something that would allow the healthcare professionals to come here, that the unions to come here, that the associations of the patients who are, insistently, coming here to Parliament to ask for help, and they could join this law. Let the professional colleges also come, let the patients come, because here what we have to do is to listen to them. President of Parliament, Members and Members, in my opinion, there is much room for consensus with a law like this. We demonstrated last week with the motion that we were able to approve Citizens to the Health Commission to improve the proposals for accessibility in time of influenza; we also approved the transparency measures for the pain clinics... We believe that improving the issues of territorial equity may require, well, a consensus, which I am sure the committee has found. We talked here about the guarantee time, a matter that I'm sure of – because here we voted for it and we approved it –, often... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And, therefore, I end, President, as I have done so many times in this Parliament: Members, Members, medicine will be human or it will not be medicine. We're doing something to humanize the waiting lists, too. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.157.0	Next, in order to defend the speech to the totality presented jointly for the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.158.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Look, today more than a year and a half ago this Parliament approved, for a large majority – all except the PP and Citizens, something we already have used to – the Universalization Law of Health Care. A law that, with the state's interference and 155, has been more time in the Constitutional Court than in force, but a law that we recovered yesterday. And that's why I think that this first happiness went to Councilwoman Vergés, who from the zero minute required the Government of Sánchez to return our law to us, and also to Councilman Comín, because he brought to this Parliament a law that went far beyond Spanish law. A law that doesn't put administrative conditions on people; a law that doesn't tell them to wait for days to be cherished. And so, let's start working with the rules already so that we can also deploy this law. [[Greetings.]] And I explain to them why I wanted to start with this law, because in the end it explains very well the reality of Catalan society in terms of salvation. Because here in this Parliament there are some parliamentary groups that we want to talk about health and putting people in the centre and there are some parliamentary groups that they want to put in the centre – and I say this in the words of the PP, so don't tell me that I attribute them – ‘the sustainability of the health system. So look, I'll explain to you one time, short and short: for Republican Left, salvation is not for sale. [[Greetings.]] Today, the groups that we support to the government present this goal to the totality. And we do it not for what you say, Mr Soler: we do it because it is a proposal that is empty of content, a proposal that wants to live as headlines, that wants to attribute the work that the government is already doing and that other groups of this chamber carry many months working to the Health Commission. Look, you're basically talking about five principles: transparency, independence, neutrality, objectivity and diligence. What a monkey! If that's what I'm talking about, who's voting no? But it's what happens with all the citizens: that when you scratch a little there's nothing else. You want to talk about transparency. What transparency? , if Catalonia is the region that most transparent is in dice of salvation. The data that you, Mrs. Arrimadas, gave this morning to President Torra, from which we take them, if not from the web page? So, transparency? What transparency? They want to talk about objectivity. What kind of objectivity? Are you questioning the criteria of health care professionals? The infirmaries? Is that what you're talking about? 'Cause he's not the government, huh? , which makes the waiting lists. Therefore, our professionals, the professionals of all, of the health system, nor the toqui, who are doing an exemplary job. [[Greetings.]] He wants to talk about indicators. Five indicators? What is it that doesn't know what Aquas is? In fact, he does, because the other day two members of this group were at the presentation of the results. We already have indicators; the question is why they want to serve them. For what? Do you know that there is already a 2016 law that says we have to explain to people what is the place they occupy on the waiting list and what is the forecast time, what is the destination center, what is the average and maximum time? If that's what's already in the law; we're already doing it, too. The thing is that you or there are indicators..., and what happens is that they don't like them, because, if not, it's hard to hear. They also suggest that people – and even more so with an example of a person who is here today – would be willing to go to a hospital. It's just that it doesn't work, that you take a case and give it the illusion and say that this is extrapolable to everything... And you're from the world of research, you're from science, you should already know, you can't take a case and extrapolate it! When you say that people are willing to leave, ask the department, because you ask a lot of data and the department gives them – at least we'll agree, I hope so –; when you... [[Funnel veils]] Ask! They will tell you that there are more than 30_percent of people who are not willing to leave. Go to a lady of eighty years of Lleida and tell her that she has to go to work in the Jew so that it will work more quickly. He says no, that he wants to stay in Lleida, close to his family, close to his territory, with the comfort people he already knows. So, they don't play with this. I, in fact, when they say that ‘users with greater needs are concerned about them? Really? Do you care about the most needy people? So if that's how I get back to Congress of Deputies, where last week they abstained to give greetings to everyone and vote this time for everyone. [[Greetings.]] In the end, you come here to say: "Ui, let them want to reduce the waiting lists. And, I don't know, they make me think that they have to be like the PP, that what he wants is to arrange for the private all that he wants, huh? I mean, what if I took a little more than that, or, if I didn't, huh? As they did in the General Policy Plenary, or self-explanatory as they did in the Next Week Plenary because some other groups could vote for it... But that didn't go to privatization, it went to fix and fix it in real situations. In short, no other bikes came. What you are coming to us here is to use four apparently good concepts, without practical concreteness, demonstrating a knowledge, as at least, of the system of salvation and no better. Therefore, Mr. Soler, this is not a minor issue for the government, it is not. We present this whole issue because it is an unnecessary law proposal, and totally out of date for the government's deployment. These are things that we are already doing, despite all the bad things: despite the interferences, despite the insufficient assumptions, despite everything, we have some sanitary services that we are guaranteeing. And, in addition, with data from the State again, we are guaranteeing them with a higher quality than the Spanish medium – because I also made them clear, with data from the Spanish society. We have codes of prompt attention, we have more reversal to Lleida, to Joan XXIII, to the emergencies of the Clinic – which we could detail all of them, as President Torra has done and as we have done to the Health Commission – we have more reversal in mental health, in research, in the most disadvantaged basic areas..., in short. When Mrs. Arrimadas says that we do not rush the waiting lists..., look if we hurry, the waiting lists, that when you say that we are in a hurry and we want to talk about other things that are not "siringuitos", the government spent the past year already spent 57_million additional euros for the top of the waiting lists. So it's not that we're in a hurry, it's that you're late – it's late. I'm done. This whole thing – I think it's made clear why we're presenting it – is an opportunity, it's easy headlines, it's not the best way to do one... in fact, you said it, huh? : "It is not the best law I could present them. Actually, Congressman Soler, go home, do your job and come the week you go with a law that we can vote here. [[Some applause.]] I ended up, because I was running out of time, saying that we announced this agreement that we had reached Esquerra, together for Catalonia and the commons, to bring a decree that sets up what we already work on, a decree that extends some of the guaranteed procedures, not only in surgical interventions, but in the primary, but in the most vulnerable population, not only with clinical criteria, but also with all the social criteria, putting to the least fairness and, above all, with a public system. We strengthen the public system. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] It's over, President. We are putting an end to this, with this whole question, to its proposal, because what we are carrying is a decree that will be quicker, more secure and that will actually put people in the center. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.159.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Deputy Josep Maria Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.160.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, invited to the..., debate the issue of the full proposal of the law of urgent measures to improve the quality in the provision of health and social health services. Who can oppose urgent measures to improve quality in the provision of health and social health services? Hardly is... to say no. Now, when you get a little bit more into the detail then you see more reasons for which to vote this goal in totality. This is a proposition of law that basically does it is to process the waiting lists, to improve one of the problems, certain, that there is, that it is the waiting lists, and more when they are people who need salvation, and in need of salvation everything is urgent and essential. And, therefore, seeking answers and seeking a solution is, it seems, an obligation on the part of all. But we will vote because there is a goal to the totality, and therefore this proposal of the law has not prospered. Why? I will not go into the practicality of the bill's proposal, I will not go into these issues – that there are interesting proposals, that are not questionable, that is to say, as Mrs Espigares has just said – but only as an example: one of the stellar proposals – and you, Mr Soler, has not made any – that of the single register... – can, I say, have a unique list menu in order to be able to distribute there where there is need and where there are possibilities for an offer – they say that the single register list already works since 2001 and the demand is about 30_percent of the offer that is made. So, here's something I'm grinyola about. Yes, I will focus more on reasons of more general character for which to justify our vote at the helm to the totality of this law. Three reasons. First reason: that this proposal of law, and more so as it is planted... – and I feel it said, Deputy Soler –, as it is planted, sin of populism. They're a problem, waiting lists – they're a problem – but playing with people's needs, that's populism. [[Greetings.]] Magic solutions, we don't have them, and trying with four words to solve a hard problem like waiting lists in people in need of salvation, I repeat, that's not the way it is. It requires much more dedication, much more..., surely the dedication, in this case, I will not discuss it with you, Mr Soler, but it does require much less populism, much less headline and much less, say, looking for it easy. I regret that, in some way, concrete names such as Sandra, Lucia, thinking and... – as has been done before in the intervention of the morning Mrs. Arrimadas –, using the counterposition of the lists of waits with national demands. This is not the way to raise a tough and dramatic problem for people. Therefore, the first reason is to get us out of this populism to get out which one is looking for its settlement. Now you will be able to reverse me..., and you will be able to say to me: "Now you are doing what is critical, this populism. A _second reason for which to vote against this bill, and therefore, yes, in favor of the threat to the totality, is because there is not enough management, but that resources are used to decrease the waiting lists. And resources are obtained through better funding, some will say, and some will say, from the management of appropriate resources, which is our objective, which is what we demand. If we think that only with the issue of management will we end up solving the issue of waiting lists we are deceiving. And that's not what we want, nor is it what I want, in any way, in matters of any nature and much less in health and socio-health issues in which salvation is an urgency that we all have to devote ourselves to... But there's still a third reason why I shouldn't say that this proposal for law and justify voting in totality to a law that..., I remember, because this may seem very spectacular: « urgent measures to improve quality in the provision of health and social health services. I know who's gonna be the headline you're gonna drag, huh? , already know: "Vote against urgent measures to improve quality in performance. We're not voting against this. And, if not, a third reason is that from here to the generation there will be a decree in which we can participate, you can participate, too, you too, Mr Soler, with one of your proposals, to improve this problem, the waiting lists. And this is the offer the government makes, and this is the compromise the government makes, and it has agreed and dealt with other groups to incorporate these better ones and give response, as far as possible, to a dramatic problem – and yes effectively and not populistly – to a situation such as that of the lists of hope, Sandra, Lucia, that all patients and all patients and that all those who somehow, at some point, need the assistance of salvation..., we need to be treated in a dignified way. For these three reasons – to fight populism, to demand propitious resources and to administer and to counter a decree that will give answer to this need – we would therefore vote for the whole issue and, therefore, we would see that this proposal for law does not pull forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.161.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, in order to position himself on the exams, has the word, again, the deputy Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.162.0	Well, thank you very much again, President. Well, we've clearly listened to Mr. Torra's tonic, which is, when asked about the waiting lists, run away from study. We are taking steps here to open the door to the parliamentary debate to improve the waiting lists... what do those who always represent the government do? So, taking the words of what you just talked about, populism. Or we promise that it has frozen there every day of desserts – which is certainly a little healthy – or guilt – perhaps both – the fault is Madrid. Now, if we want to fix the problems of Catalans, Mrs. Arrimadas is a populist – and I'm proud of her. So look, I think you have a big problem, and it's that here the coasts, as often the coasts also in other topics, but today I don't want to talk, tell the truth. It is to come out here and say: "Look, looking at the face, "we in this topic have deceived you, we in this topic do not know how to fix it, we in this topic thirty years ago we ruled Catalonia and we do not know how to get out of fixing the waiting list. Now, to which they propose alternative measures, to which they force the door to make a cross-cutting debate, therefore, we give them the flat to the totality. Okay. I do not know whether or not I have knowledge of the health system; I wish to think that today I do not know what I have to justify my activity neither academic nor research nor management..., well, nor clinic. I think I'm thinking... but it's also true that I have to recognize it, when I want to have this debate about years of expertise in any of these four areas that I've just told you, so we can comment on it, huh? I don't have a problem. But it is true that I, when I pretended to be humble, said this is a door, and when I said: "It is not the best law. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah... it's just that I repeat it again, in case anyone thinks I was wrong or that it was one... well, the fruit of my mistake. No, no, I meant it with this intention, because some of you know perfectly well that when we deal with issues as complicated as they are in the management of the health system one cannot go for free. In fact, I think the one who sees here is mistaken, comes out to the Faristol and says: "The announcement that we will present a decree. Well, that's what you do, and I know you do, huh? ...,other games in other places. But we believe, some, that this is not the solution to complex issues. The complex issues, in this case, therefore, we will begin to feel... that I also do not know whether it will be populist or not, but I believe that it is realistic, as is often the case with the Health Committee. It's just, well, there's no problem with being with Congresswoman Escarp or Congresswoman Ribas... with everyone, huh? And, so, let's get on... with the CUP, huh? , with the Eulàlia Reguant, when the last legislature was here..., and we can negotiate better. Now, if you, therefore, prefer, well, at night, to present your decree, to begin your intervention – I don't know why – speaking of the PP, when the law is sanitary and is of Ciutadans, so, really, I don't think I'm talking here right now of the PP; I think that if..., it's just elegant. I mean, the law is from Ciutadans, and if there's nothing in this law that you like, then we can talk about it. Now, I insist on two foundational pillars. Rhetoric, the one that they want; oratory, therefore, some go beyond others, but we are talking about two fundamental things: transparency and the opening of the door to make changes of management. Clari, I was listening here, I guess, huh? Because it is true, now three years and months ago, that I may have forgotten that it is to manage a query in the waiting list, even though as long as I stand in the Major's street; even as long as I find patients in the Front, this train that they know is so lauded and that I so much like to claim... [[Funnel veils]] – goes to the Navy, yes [[relays]] – and I like to do so because I also find patients there – you say no, you deny the reality – you also come to the doctor, even though you defend a different model, but you also come to Barcelona. I need to talk to patients like we have today. Look, I'm also announcing it, because it seems like here, so you're falling now from the vineyard and... Listen, there are a lot of health workers, enough of your management, and I think it's going to be hard for us to explain to them that here we open a cross-door, to talk to everyone, to bring them in and come here to Parliament that they explain things to us, and not their decree. I'm sure he's probably all right, huh? That you're going to do great and that you're going to bring all your experts, I don't know, what you can have, huh? But, man, if we bring the unions, the associations here, they don't think, deputies and deputies, that we'd get a much nicer, much richer law? Look, I think we can all change this together. I'd ask, like the last call, well, that all the groups that aren't the ones that make up the government. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] I'm picking up... because if not this door, Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.163.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.164.0	...they see that we're being locked up. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.165.0	Then, to fix the position, each parliamentary group has the word for a maximum of two minutes, starting, in this case, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance; the lady assumes Escarp, when she wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.166.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. Let me begin by recalling a free woman, socialist and wrestler who has left us today, the mad Minister of Culture, Carmen Alborch. A record for her in the name of... [[Greetings.]] Thank you. The Socialists and Forward Units Group will give support so that we continue to deal with this bill, because we believe in the debate, among other things, because we want to talk about waiting lists. Because we have a government that thinks that if we don't talk about it, it'll disappear. So, talking about waiting lists means talking about more than 350,000 people waiting for salvation, and more than 84,000 people waiting in dependence. Because that's what we could say, and we've said many times, it's a country we're waiting for; we've got to wait and everything to put ourselves on a waiting list. Certainly, and other Members have said, it would not be the proposal of law that we would present from the Socialist Group, but it is clear that it is a debate, that it is a question of lists, transparency, registers. We need to talk to him. Now, I'm also saying, Mr. Soler, let's not be fooled, this law wouldn't fix everything. What we should do is ask ourselves whether the health care system can endure much longer without any presupposition, without reversing the detail, without any economic plans to reduce the waiting lists, knowing that we lack 22,960 new nursing professionals to get close to the European media, 50_percent more than we have now, 22,900 nursing professionals to get close to the European media. Without knowing where we're going to primary school, where their professionals are on the edge and where we hear these days talking about vagaries. And besides, I remember them, see the winter, huh? We're going to have, say or not, flu again, so we're going to have a flu epidemic again, we're going to have collapsing emergencies again. Of these and more urgent things that affect so many citizens and citizens, we should be able to speak if we have an effective government and not a government that is totally northwards. I recognize them that I have extended a little bit of what I propose to you. I share some of the things that have been said, for example, that there is no need for a law to establish assessment systems or to have a reliable image of health services or to create a single register. In the first place, because the criteria of clarity, transparency, independence, diligence should be the ones that preside over the Government of the Health Department, as it should be a good management of the offer and the demand. It's what a government expects, what governments. Therefore, do not call a law, call to rule, administer, manage and make decisions. In fact, his proposal is not so far as he has often explained to us, or had explained to us, at the time, the councillor. Now, what the council doesn't explain to us are these things that they do with the waiting lists, when they rain transparently, for example, that if you go to surgery they deprogram it because that day didn't go well or an emergency has passed, when they put you back on the list and pose as if you were again, to schedule. So all the time you're waiting for is lost and so we're going down, so we're going down what's going on in the middle of the wait. Or that from time to time CatSalut sends instructions to all hospitals because they have to cut the lists, more and more, to prevent them from growing exponentially. Or else, in the hospital centres, what interventions must be made, even though these do not follow the urgent ones in the territory or in that hospital centre, so we also lower the medium time from which they have considered priorities. Clearly, this is not a good management of the waiting lists, and, therefore... it is. Therefore, I believe that it is a good management and perhaps not a law, but, in any case, as I said to the original, welcome the debate; a debate that would deny the groups that support the Government, therefore, with its goal to the totality, that they already do it habitually, but what I am surprised – and here I wanted to entertain a moment – is that you do it – a denial of this debate – a group like Catalonia in Comú Pode. And it is even more surprising when the currency of change to give support to the Government is a compliment of the resolutions and motions approved in this plenary. The decree that they have promised, the decree that today has announced President Torra, is nothing more... I hope – and I hope indeed – that this is the compliment of those resolutions and motions that we have approved in this plenary with the vote of all and that include what is the attention to the waiting lists and which are many of the resolutions that have been approved. We did it in the general policy debate because there was a lot of salvation and also in some other plenary. And it's worth doing there, among other things, because we're talking about a universal right, before Congresswoman Espigares said it, but we're talking, among other things, about what is 38_percent of the Generality's assumption. In almost all the proposals that there were, except for the proposals for Republican Left or for Junts for Catalonia, there have been very concrete initiatives and actions around the waiting lists, time guarantees, how they begin to count the time for a diagnostic test. And they're approved. And today, President Torra has told us that this government is complicating with all the things approved in plenary. And, therefore, I understand that the decree, that clearly, when I read the press release of Catalonia in Comú Pode and said: "We have given the government a decree. It is nothing more than the compliment of Parliament's agreements, some instigated for you, but some instigated for whom he speaks, or by resolutions of the year 2012 girls for the Socialist Group in this very Parliament. But look, since you've negotiated this decree, and since you've explained it to us, I'll ask you what I want you to do in this decree. And we believe that the important thing in this decree is what was adopted in paragraph 2 of Parliament's Resolution 7/XII of Catalonia, on October 11 of this year, that it is: "the terms of reference that are set to be the maximum guarantee term, to be denied to the Government, I hope that it will be achieved by setting up a maximum guarantee term that has been completed in the 40-hour timeframe for the first time in the first time in the first time in the first time in the first time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last month in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last time in the last in the last in the last in the month in the last time in the last time in the month in the last in the last in the last time in the month in the last in the month in the month in the month in the month in the month in which the month in which the month in the last time in the month in the last in the last in the last in the last in the month in the month in the month in the last in the last in the last in the month in the month in the month in the month in the month in the month in the last This should be the content of the decree. And this decree that somehow serves to close a debate. A debate that could be useful to all of us, and which I am surprised that Mr Forné tells us: « a decree that we can discuss. Since when do the decrees in the House of Commons have been discussed? I would like to demand the term 'consensus' when we speak of salvation, but what is obvious is that you ask for accessions, you make an agreement and then you say'man', so you don't have to be there, if that's what we say. No, no, what is good is what has approved this plenary and the plenary of Parliament respects concrete actions in the health field that I hope and wish is complete. And if it is necessary to do so with this decree. Now, don't come and sell that we'll argue here among all a decree, because maybe we won't discuss this decree but we'll find it done. I keep saying it wouldn't be the law proposal my group would introduce. It's true that he doesn't approach a part, that it's the transparency part. It is true that there is one thing that I consider positive, which is that, as a minimum, the patient knows where he is in his situation and always has accurate information. Now, neither, Mr Soler, do we think that this would fix everything, but what we do need is the truth, and here we do – I don't know if in the form of a decree but in the form of a serious debate – it would be worth it if we were to look at the real, non-economic sustainability of Catalonia's health system. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.167.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.168.0	Thank you, President. This morning I asked the president of my parliamentary group to ask the president of the Government of the Generality, the lists of hope for salvation are one of the seven podes of shame in which we are leaders in Catalonia. Leaders in waiting lists. Leaders, therefore, to make citizens suffer when they need intervention, accessibility or a health service in our public health system. To attack this, to solve this, it's been a long time since we've been making proposals and we're not the only country in the world that has this problem. Don't go inventing strange solutions. We know what it's like. I need an integral plan to reduce them throughout the health care system. We need transparency, yes, data and criteria. We need guarantees for the citizenry. We need resources to be able to do this in the long run. And we need to resolve the situation with the same public health system; strengthening the public health system. We come from a legislature, the previous one, in which, at the beginning of the legislature, a social plan agreed between Junts per el Si and the CUP, therefore, the parliamentary major of the last legislature, agreed 90_million euros to address the issue of health waiting lists precisely in the country. We didn't see them on the premises of 2017. We didn't see them. A legislature in which Councillor Comin announced a compromise of transparency in the lists of waits, announced a compromise of completing those terms of reference that Mr. Boi Ruiz had fixed, eliminating in his moment the terms of guarantee of these lists of waits. He announced, Mr. Comín, objective priority criteria and announced also quantitative objectives; he said that they were going to reduce to half the waiting time with diagnostic tests and with first visits to the specialist and to reduce by 10_per_cent the number of patients expected to be operated. Where are we from all those objectives of the last legislature? Because we don't come from scratch, we come from work. We have come to claim, as Mrs Escarp rightly recalled, with many motions and resolutions in this Parliament for many years, concrete solutions to this issue. How do we comply with all those objectives and commitments made by Mr. Comín? So, of transparency, honestly, still better; of completing the terms of reference, nothing else; of course, the terms of guarantee have not been recovered; of priority criteria, it has not been fulfilled even when accounting for the hint of being in a waiting list followed by the moment when a doctor makes the clinical decision to derive you from an intervention. We still don't have the guarantees that this is being completed. And, of the quantitative data that the councillor fixed Reduction to half of the waiting time in diagnostic tests and visits to the specialist, there has been reduction, yes, but from an 18-22_per_cent; rest of the half. I, of 10_percent of the number of patients to be reduced in the lists of people waiting to be operated, the reduction was less than 1_percent. We are tired of shoc plans that do not attack the issue there and fail in their own shoc plans, in which they are not presupposedly endowed as much as they had been said to be, and in which, obviously, what we end up having is that citizenship continues to wait more than it needs to have the health services it needs. We're not doing well. We don't go well when we have 350,000 people still waiting and we don't go well – let me put the emphasis on it especially – when you have to wait for a_me to have a visit with your teacher or headmistress. We don't go well. Ciutadans' proposal..., tries to put forward a proposal to resolve the issue. Appreciate it, but it's very light, Mr. Soler. I'm not the first one to say it, nor will I be the last: it's very light. It's unstructured, it's much better, it doesn't propose innovative things, nor does it just recover the warranty terms that was loaded by Councilman Boi Ruiz, nor does it alone. And it basically has two points of interest: elements of transparency, with which we fully agree, while in some of the cases that they are already regulated, but we could talk about it, and the only register of waiting lists, with the aim of passing ills from one more congested center to another with less delay. Miri, we have doubts that this is the system that suits the health system of Catalonia, this system "socio-vergent of public and private barriers, in which the actual effect, at present, of this unique list would be that we would end up contracting much more public money to private centres. This would be the real result of a single list of waiting lists currently. This jockey, as I can hear it, with which we are the model of the health system that we defend. We appreciate the proposal. As it is, however, they are insufficient, but we especially appreciate it because they have helped put the issue on the agenda, and this has helped us to give up the government's commitment to make a decree before the year is over. A decree that is the compliment of the motions that we have approved in this Parliament, Mrs Escarp, is absolutely right, yes. But we've been approving them since 2012 and it hasn't happened yet – and it hasn't happened yet. Unfortunately, we have to "press the government at times when we have the occasion, so that we can complete those things that improve the real conditions of people's lives, and that is the objective for which we are doing politics in this Parliament. We have had the opportunity, on this subject, to be able to « press now with a definite term: at the end of the year we have to have a proposal for a regulation..., a proposal for a decree – excuse – on behalf of the Government. A proposal for a decree in which, moreover, we have put the condition: it must be discussed with the rest of the political forces of this chamber, yes, as much as the decree does the government, and it must be based on those things that we have already granted in committees of salvation, we have granted in plenary, we have approved on numerous occasions, and which set out the criteria that should have been laid down in this decree. Therefore, we urge the others to work together on this point of origin of this compromise that is to make a decree. A decree that will be a faster way than the processing of a law, such as that of Ciutadans, in this Parliament, because it would be the processing of the law in Parliament plus the statutory deployment of the law after it has been completed. A government decree is a faster way, it can be more effective, because it is directly done by the government, it is done in parallel with the discussion of assumptions for the coming year, and, therefore, I believe, a more useful way to go to what must be the shared objective – at least it is ours – of what we should be doing when we are political in this Parliament, which is, as I said, improving people's real living conditions. We urge them, therefore, to cooperate with it, to row in place all folds, in order to be able to a decree that is the one that we also expect opposition parties, and especially the citizenry of Catalonia. And we urge them, especially in Citizens, to work together also in that after that it can be presuppositionally equipped as lime, because, if not, it will be re-wrapped paper. And what's that like, Citizens? So, among others, it's easy..., go, no longer blocking the Congress of Deputies the deficit limit that allows Catalonia to have, for example, 500_million euros more for public spending on the assumptions of the coming year, and we can be going to a real shock plan on the waiting lists. [[Funnel veils]] – no « go web; it is you who block it, among others – that there is a more flexible deficit limit that allows 500_million euros more for Catalonia. I'm not telling you anymore that I'm introducing state assumptions that would allow Catalonia much more social spending and that you're clear that the only thing they want is to block electoral elements. Look, what suits us, I think, is that we're all in a good position to solve a problem. Sandra and Lucia will be served by all of us to effectively reduce the waiting lists and improve their management. We don't cause the issue of waiting lists just as the weapon launches for electoral purposes. The decree that we have achieved that the government is committed to doing is a way, a faster way that can be more effective and that can be done together, and we will all have to control that it is the best possible decree for this issue and that it is then complimented. We have put our grit to solve this issue of waiting lists. If, at the end of the year, the Government has not completed or the majority of the parliament that supports it has not completed, it is also the first to put a new text of law in the table, which we will put in the table to the rest of the opposition groups to sign it together, to force the Government to comply with what it touches. But if we can do it on a fast track like a government decree, can they really justify it to the citizenry we're not trying to do? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.169.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of Mr Vidal Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.170.0	Good afternoon, everyone. In the first place, we would like to evaluate what is the analysis we make of this proposal for law made to us by the Citizens' Group. And in appreciation the first thing we have to say is that the realization of the law's proposal will not mean any change in what is, for one band, the waiting lists, and for another band, the conditions of attendance at public health; first element. Second, what might affect the proposition of law that makes us citizens; so it could affect in relation to elements of transparency, what it is or what it can mean to have more data about the situation of the waiting lists and the situation of salvation. But, said that, we also want to look at two of the articles that are moving from this proposition of the law. The first article, Article 7.3 of the Law's proposal, on which, in the format that citizens have taken from us, what it can mean is that there is a transfer from public sanitation to private sanitation, because there can be a lot of good intention in the exercise that I give the first answer that I can give, but first of all, for us, this is not sanitation planning, and second place, what will mean is that certain private healthcare companies, therefore, will want to act on certain services, which are those that are very important, but they will not act in relation to the others, to which they give less time. Therefore, overall, we do not give solutions to Catalans and Catalans who need a more rapid response from the waiting lists. And the second article we want to look at: Article 6.1.d of the Law's Proposal, which refers to a supposed transparency, which is required for everyone, but is not required for private businesses that manage public sanitation for what it does to non-public service. Obviously, you could say to us: "We must respect the protection of data, and we must say: "Yes, but there are other ways to respect the protection of data and, at times, to have control over what real waiting lists mean, waiting lists where there are elements of confusion between public and private sanitation. And, look, with regard to the lists of waits, it has not been fifteen days since this subgroup made three very concrete proposals in this Parliament, three proposals which passed, first of all, to eliminate what are actually three lists of waits: a list of waits which refers to those who come with a lot of money and pay private; another list of waits which refers to those who have mutual concerts, and a list of waits where the majority of the country is, the working classes, which come to public health via public health and, therefore, we see that situation absolutely classist where there is going first, which passes before, and then, when it touches, of that so catastrophic way, those and those which, obviously, first of all, pass through the classes of the publics, the classes, who gather. According to the measure we proposed: 50_per_cent reduction of waiting lists to what is a priority. And that which is a priority means surgical interventions, for one band, and that means, for another band, also an element as simple as the first visit to the specialist. And we also put forward, in a general way, another measure, which was: let's finish with the details that there was in the last period, that we can quantify, that which has been closed. That's simple: go see what's been closed in relation to the clipboards, and we'll go back to those clipboards. Beyond these concrete measures on the waiting lists, we will not tire of saying that there are two difficult problems of sanitation and we have to give an answer: the first is infra-financing and the second is confusion between public and private. We can have a good financing, that if we continue with this system of confusion between the public and the private, therefore, if the resources go there. We are always very grateful for Mrs Espigares' participation in the health committees, but today, when she says, she says that sanitation is not for sale, we say it with all respect: there is a part of sanitation that cannot be for sale, because we already sold it, sold it "socio-virgency when it has allowed us to manage in a private way a good part of public services; it will no longer be for sale. And there's only one that's so good it's never for sale. And on this concrete element, that of public and private management confused, we want to remember and ask the political groups that are manifest before we have the feeling of the Innova case, because it can affect a good part of the groups that are in this room. Our vote will not be in favour or against, because there are elements of which we are in favour and elements of which we are against, and, therefore, will not be in one voice or another; but we also say that we have been surprised by the threat in totality because we cannot discuss this proposal for law. And we're surprised, once a decree is issued, that this deputy says to them, "Someone can now teach me what is the content of the decree?" Because we have heard that we have decrees, we have heard that we are discussing decrees, we have heard that it is working decrees and we have heard that it may have decrees. So, that someone, in their interventions, obviously tell us that we will deal with what is important, that they are the waiting lists, the quality of public sanitation for the popular classes. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.171.0	Thank you, Mr Aragonés. Then, and finally, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The word has Mr. Santi Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.172.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law proposal that has a lot of good will, and I think it has a better will than it didn't. I'll explain it all along, won't I? But I think it's worth remembering that a few weeks ago, the Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health placed Catalonia as the third largest Spanish community in public health assistance. The State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services – they are entities that have nothing to do with either the People's Party or Citizens – also said that Catalonia is at the back of the retails in salutation, and concretely sifted the 2017 pressupost at a 27.5_per_cent lower than the 2009 pressupost in salutation. All of this has a consequence, it is not free, all of this has a consequence, and it is that the most sensitive element of public health is generated, and this most sensitive element is precisely the waiting lists, which is what they pretend to not know if to resolve, but as a matter of fact, to attack the proposal of law presented by the Citizens' Group. But the first thing we find missing in this bill, precisely, is to define what we're talking about, because it talks about waiting lists in general, but it's not concrete. Moreover, in the Motius presentation he talks about almost 300,000 Catalans being affected by waiting lists, and one, when he goes to the official data of the Government of the Generality's Department of Health, says: "No, it's not 300,000, it's 727,662 with August 2018 data, the Catalans affected by waiting lists. You say, "Well, it's just like when they presented the bill's proposal there were some other figures. Final dice of the year 2017: 690,000, 721,000, 721 Catalans in lists of waits. With this, I also want to say, from the end of the year to August, in eight months, the waiting lists for salvation have increased by more than 5_per_cent. So, what are we talking about concretely? So we're talking about waiting lists for surgical interventions, both those that have time guaranteed with those that have reference time, in total number of 170,000 people; waiting lists for diagnostic tests, 120,000 Catalans, or waiting lists in expert consultations, 437,000 Catalans. I'm very concerned that some of the parties that support the government are coming out, posing medals that their maximum ribbon is the law of universal sanitation. That, with the data they gave yesterday, objective, five-year-old has affected 135 people– 135. And today we are talking about a proposal of law that must try to provide solutions to a problem that suffers 727,000 Catalans. Well, we think the priority has to be what it is. What are the solutions? Listen, it's inescapable. Solutions go to providing more resources for salvation. I think that's what we all agree on. Now, what we disagree with, is that the government is not prioritizing the provision of resources for salvation. They have been prioritising the provision of resources for other types of policies. I don't know..., of many types, it's the same, I won't give them examples because you don't freak out, but many other types of policies. Therefore, we find the government's lack of willingness to provide resources to address this problem. But, in addition, we find that the government's unwillingness to resolve this problem is lacking, with the challenge to the totality that the groups that support the government have presented. We value the good will of the law's proposal, we value it. This will, for one thing, avoid waiting lists to access waiting lists, which is a reality. There are hidden waiting lists today so as not to increase waiting lists. This proposition of law, if prospered, would avoid it. It would help to improve transparency, as other groups have already said; but above all – above all, above all – what I like most about this law proposal is Article 7.3, not so much because it allows the referral of patients from the public to the private, which you do not say... [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , only because this would allow the referral of patients who are on waiting lists in centers that are collapsed to centers that have availability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.173.0	Congressman... time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.174.0	And so, in this sense, we believe that this proposition of law is not the solution, but it does help to improve the situation. Therefore, our group will not vote for the whole issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.175.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. We will vote on the motion for a totality, presented jointly for the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Before that, I would like to say that, to the delegated votes announced at the beginning of the plenary session, I must add to it that of Mrs Adriana Delgado, who also delegate, in this case, to Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Parliamentary Group Republic. We will vote, as we say, for the totality. The votes in favour are in favour of the debate on totality and the votes against, from rebutting to that debate on totality. The vote begins. [[Long break.]] The speech to the totality, presented jointly for the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, was approved by 60 votes in favour, 56 against and 10 abstentions. [[Widow's remorse. A congresswoman is indisposed.]] If it looks like it, before we go on... We'll suspend the session for a few minutes, so they can attend to the congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.176.0	MPs, MPs, we'll continue with the session. For the sake of peace of mind, the honourable Member seems to be well, recovering and, therefore, following the order of the scheduled day. Now, let's go to the government's interrogations. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, MPs, MPs... [[Inquiries to the Government on infrastructure and public transport]] [[300-00023/12]] The first question is about infrastructure and public transport, in this case, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. To expose her, Mr David Cid has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.177.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, look, I'm starting the same way that I started a few days ago in the interrogation... no, in this case, it was the Movement following an inquiry, that made the PSC, about energy transition and that you weren't there and I told you it was a bad idea that the issue of climate change and energy didn't carry you... [[Funnel veils]] Yeah, not because, in this case, the business advisor wasn't there, was she? Neither do you. Miri, the group of scientists and advisors of the United Nations, sure that they know, especially in climate change, were alert to the global warming situation that planet Earth saw and that, besides, if it's nothing, surely, we'll find ourselves in a situation where, year 2030 or year 2050, we'll have a temperature rise of 1.5 degrees, right? In fact, even this same week, a report published in a scientific journal such as Nature, which states that, in the case of the Mediterranean, we are speaking not of an increase of 1.5 degrees, but, even more so, of 2.2 degrees, with a reduction of the plugs between 10 and 30_percent, an increase in the demand for water and, even so, obviously, a higher risk of fire, isn't it? Therefore, the same report from the United Nations that he claimed was rapid, unprecedented and in-depth changes in electricity, agriculture, industry and especially transport. And that's what we want to plant today, isn't it? Especially in transport infrastructure, public transport financing, and also in the management of mobility and public transport. Here you go, huh? – and together with this announcement made, in this case, by the Group of Experts of the United Nations – it is true that the metropolitan area and, in this case, also with the agreement of the Generality, is what we understand to be a positive agreement of the low-emission zones, eh? , which are to enter into the year 2020 and which, moreover, also makes it necessary to make an effort, in this case, not only the promotion, but also the better use of public transport and, finally, the financing of public transport, right? We want to be honest with him too. That is to say, we believe that in this government, and especially on your part, there is a lack of leadership, especially in the fight against climate change, and also, in this case, for public transport. We believe that his compromise is, sometimes, too timid and too much to complete the dispatch. And, therefore, we believe that we should go further. We want more leadership, we want more compromise and, above all, we don't want symbolic measures – I know you're very used to symbolism – but we want concrete facts. We want to make proposals, huh? Ours is a purposeful inquiry, in three camps. The first is public transport financing. We, from Catalonia to Comú Pode, weeks ago, to the Commission of Territories, but also to the Commission of Economy, which we propose to develop the Law of financing public transport, to obtain more resources to finance public transport. Our question is, what is the government doing? What does the government object to in financing public transport? Do you think the government needs more resources to finance public transport? Do you think, for example, that you are claiming from the Department of Economics, that you are imposing tax measures that exist in the Public Transport Finance Act, as we are claiming and proposing? These are finalist measures, which we believe would help to improve infrastructure, but also, in this case, to make access to public transport more economical for many sections of our population. Later, I also wanted to ask him: you made public, the July of the past year, that would put the tax on polluting cars in the year 2019. For the information we have, it's not possible or it's not likely that this is the case. So, I want to ask you: by the year 2019 we will have the tax on polluting cars, yes or no? Or should we wait until the year 2020? Finally, I also want to ask him a couple more things. Is that, you said, the Government of the Generality, including more resources for the financing of public transport for the assumptions of the year 2019? And I also want to ask you: how do you value the agreement that we have reached, in this case, from In Comú Pode, from our political space with the Government of the State, to achieve 40_million euros more for public transport, in this case, especially for the metropolitan area? Do you think Catalonia can give up these resources? Therefore, it is proposed that we make it on the land of public transport financing, that we believe that it is essential that it be placed on the table. And, more than that, you also know that, in this case, the Barcelona Assembly and also, in this case, don't you? The AMB has made a very clear proposal: we want a tariff freeze in 2019. And this is also intimately linked to the fact that there are more resources for public transport, both at the level of the assumptions of the State, but also of the Government of Catalonia. And I already say – there's not the Economic Advisor – that if they want our support for the assumptions, or they have more resources for public transportation or they won't have our support. According to the item I want to plant: T-Mobility and tariff zones. Jo, today, wanted to plant them in a way, say so, calm. But well, today's announcement you made about T-Mobility... it's been resting, too, huh? In this sense. I think it's very important what you've placed today, which is not led by the Generality, in this case, but by another time, the lead has, in this case, the joints and the tea, in this case, also the metropolitan area, with the tariff integration of the municipalities that do not form part, in this case, of the integration of zone 1. I believe that this is essential, in this case, to ensure access to public transport and that it is more economical. So, that's a big deal. If we do not change tariff management from the areas we find situations that are absolutely unacceptable to us. For example, right? , Terrassa, a city of more than 200,000 inhabitants, is located in zone 3 and has a difficulty, the people who saw Terrassa, to access public transport. Therefore, it is essential for us the inn in the market of the T-Mobility. I think we're too late with T-Mobility. You've decided to delay T-Mobility for two years. T-Mobility should be in place by the year 2019 and today you have made it public that T-Mobility should not enter until the year 2021, that is, another time more lack of leadership of the Generality. And here who is leading the climate change policy and who is leading the public transport policy once more is the Barcelona City Council and is the Metropolitan Area, before a councilman who is more shy and surely more symbolic than he should be. Then I also think it's important that the company is claimed, in this case, by the company. Therefore, we find ourselves in a situation where companies are repeatedly not acting as they should in the deployment of T-Mobility. I also want to ask you: Is the announcement you make today about the delay in T-Mobility your responsibility as a Country and Environment Advisor or is it that businesses are not doing the job they had to do? If they're not doing the job they had to do, isn't it time to ask for their responsibilities? If these responsibilities are too exaggerated, don't we have to terminate the contract? I mean, explain why the T-Mobility, that it had to be set aside by the year 2019, and that it is essential for a phone management of public transport, for a management that facilitates access to public transport, that is more economical, we would not define it until the year 2021 when, for example, the low-emission zone enters into the deadline by 2020. Don't you have to be telling me that you also want to delay the inn by leaving the emission zones? I'm asking you, in this case. We want to be very clear about this. We demand that the T-Mobility go out in 2019, and we want it that way, because it's what you've bought yourself. Listen, they compromised the year 2017; they compromised, you, in the strategy of fighting climate change the year 2017. They're failing their own agreements. We'll bring you a specific resolution on T-Mobility, and we'll see what Parliament decides. Third element: infrastructure and public transport. Miri, here, I also want to say: we need more leadership in the deployment of infrastructure and public transport. I'm doing some, too, considerations. For example, everything you have to see with bus access to Barcelona's Metropolitan Area. Do you intend to set up a VAO bus, for example, on the C-31 or on the C-32? They are relatively economic wagons – they are doing so, for example, in Madrid – of traffic management. We're not asking them to make a big infrastructure. This could improve the connection, for example, of municipalities that do not have, in this case, access to the railway network or metro, and, finally, connect it with the polygons. A_second element that you know is also a priority for us, such as territorial rebalancing: the Tarragona Camp tram train. Do you believe or not believe the Tarragona Camp tram train? Theoretically, we've also approved the Territorial Commission. And I demand it there– and, therefore, we will also make a concrete proposal there––––claim the infrastructure transfer–claim the infrastructure transfer–, claim it managed, because without infrastructure management there will be no tram train to Tarragona. And it is compatible to reduce the architectural impact to cities like Cambrils and Salou with an infrastructure like the tram train. But there's a tram all over Europe! Or else we'll bet on the tram, we'll do it a little bit, but I didn't let the service be dismantled. You know that if the line is dismantled, there will be no tram train. Third element, line 9. Have you already signed an agreement with the EIB? You said you had approved, but did you sign it? I think you're important. Fourth element, ask for a calendar. So it can't be that we have calendars for all road infrastructures and for all developments – you're the king of road developments – but tell us: when will line 1, in this case, come to Badalona? When will line 3 arrive in Esplugues? So, tell us... or so, I already know what the limits of the resources the Generalitat has are, but in any case, I'm asking you to set us a calendar. And, finally, I also want to ask you: are you in favour of or are you not in favour of connecting the tram to the Diagonal? You always say that you are an heir to Councilman Rull, who is obviously unjustly in prison, and we obviously express all our solidarity, but Mr. Ricard Font and Mr. Rull were in favor of connecting the tram to Diagonal. Leaders. What's his opinion? There has to be connection to the Diagonal tram, yes or no? It's not just a Barcelona issue, it's a metropolitan issue. We are talking about the great urban conurbation, in this case, of the country. I believe that if you are fighting the climate change, the pollution, you must be in favour. Don't worry, we'll get him to vote in 15 days. Miri, we want your leadership. Leave it to us to help. We will help you with the assumptions, which you have more resources; we will help you with the concrete measures, and we have proposed them in three camps: financing public transport, managing public transport from T-Mobility and public transport infrastructure. We firmly believe in the fight against climate change and pollution. We want to have a government at the height of its reptes, not just the country, but I think it's a repte of civilization. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.178.0	Thank you, Mr. Cid. To answer the question has the word Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.179.0	Mr President, Members, Members... Mr Cid, many thanks for your intervention, the whole and the content very constructive. Indeed, I believe that we have shown just as well as the Government that we are committed to the fight against climate change. In fact, I often refer to all the work we do from the Department of Lands and Sustainability as the sole objective of fighting climate change, complementing the Sustainable Development Goals. It is true that we are the department that probably has the most impact on this issue of the fight against climate change, but there are no others. You've been discussing energy issues. Indeed, energy issues are not part of the Department of Territories and Sustainability, but there is very much coordination with the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge so that energy policies also have this component of fighting climate change. There are compromises, there are firm compromises. All the actions, I insist, are on the way to this great repte that we have, this great capital repte that we have not as the department or the Government of the Generalitat, but as the society. We have leadership. What happens is that you may not see it, or maybe you don't recognize it, because it doesn't value one of the actions we did, that we do and that we pretend to do. It still puts it in the value of the assemblies or the metropolitan area, which do a lot of good work, sense of doubt, and which we have a lot of coordination with them, but some value we have to have; what we do from the department are also fighting policies against the climate change. Because in fem and many; in fem in the matter of waste management and circular economy; in fem, obviously, with a view to having a more sustainable mobility, of which part is unequivocal and as a part the public transport. And we do this with this global, comprehensive leadership vision, which is none of the very genera of what the Department of Lands and Sustainability is, a large department, a department that brings to one more alone the planning policies of the territory, of urbanism, of infrastructure, of mobility, but that also has the part of environment and sustainability. Someone's been criticizing it, on some occasion. You yourself have criticized it on some occasion, the fact that we have it all in one hand, or the fact that there is no specific environmental department. We give a lot of value to this, a lot of value, because it actually allows us to see the territory in a much more comprehensive way. And, if we think about planning, the first layer for us is the environment and sustainability. It is on this layer, on which we use the rest of the heads, the planning of the territories, the planning of the infrastructures and after that of the services that are provided on these infrastructures. Therefore, we are very clear that the first of the heads of action of the Department of Lands and Sustainability is the environment, the environmental layer. And, obviously, infrastructure and mobility actually have a great impact on this fight against climate change. Therefore, we take this seriously and lead. I have already said in the appearances to the committee, the initial appearances that we have made, both to the Committee of Territories and Sustainability, that we aspire to a model of management of infrastructures and public transport that starts from the current estoc of the infrastructures that we have, but also that we seek sustainability, efficiency and innovation in programming of new infrastructures. The good management, the good services that public transport has to offer, must enable us to facilitate an efficient, safe, quality and sustainable mobility for citizens. A management that has to give concrete solutions to concrete problems, and where these problems follow, with independence of the road owner or the network. We are ambitious, in this sense, because you know that we have a very high level of complexity in according to which mobility infrastructure, basically railways and on journeys. But this difficulty of management, for the complexity that we are called upon, for example, by the ownership of one or another infrastructure, does not have to be excused for not acting overall. For example, in everything that we have often planted – you have not spoken about it, but for us it is a fundamental piece of the action that we have to deploy our own years –, of the management of the lives of other services, which we call the winery; so, well, there is a very high complexity around which is the infrastructure on which to act, but we have made a bet and a definition of this complete, integral, courageous winery. We have placed it at the disposal of... by knowledge, appreciation and if it can be agreed by the Ministry of Development. He's gone with interest. We are very pleased that the Ministry of Development has rejected this proposal for wine with great interest. It wasn't like that with the former heads of the Ministry of Development, and this is a phone book. You haven't talked about it, but for us this can be a great source of resources for public transport, because the winery, in its application, between presuppostary students and net entries, for the same winery, so we will get a remarkable economic quantity. Our forecasts refer to 6,000_million euros in two years – not a small amount of money – that will allow us to act on our own network, also on public transport and also on a very important part of what is the management of mobility and, therefore, the fight against climate change, which is the environment of waves. But from concrete actions, in fem – in fem – and fem constantly. I insist, maybe you don't recognize them or you don't know how to see them, but in the public transport camp in fem. For example, in the area of the metropolitan area, therefore, we are developing the PL infrastructure manager, we are working to be able to implement not T-Mobility... T-Mobility is, say, the physical part of a more ambitious system: this second tariff integration. We made the first tariff integration 20 years ago. The second tariff integration is to move to a model in which we can charge public transport for which are the real routes, i.e., mileage and also recurrence. In order to apply this model, we need a support that is not analog but digital, and this is the part of T-Physical Mobility, which in this, effectively, there is a contract of the ATM, not of the Government of the Generality – of the ATM – that what is to be done is to manage it in the marks of its contents. And, indeed, we are aware that what is the implementation of this digital solution does not go on the dates that had been said on some other occasion, and it was certainly said by Councillor Rull from this same road. We..., which is the concept of T-Mobility – I insist, the physical target is only a part of this concept – went much further: kilometre pricing; by recurrence; above all, digital system; user information, so that you allow us to know perfectly and at all times what is the real use of the public transport network and how we can improve it, as we can improve it even more. The intention is that the rate per kilometre and per concurrence we keep it at 2021. That's what I said today. I have not made a late announcement in the T-Mobility application, I have explained that the tariff per kilometer and by recurrence we will keep it to 2021. And before we get to the possible application of this pricing per kilometer and by recurrence, we will logically have physical T-Mobility, this digital support that will allow us to apply it. And where did I make this announcement? - You were talking about it. I did it today, precisely, at the ATM. Precisely, accompanied by the Metropolitan Area and the Barcelona Assembly; there was also present the rest – at the press wheel, eh? – of consortia and operators, but in any case the press wheel was made by the Barcelona Assembly, the Metropolitan Area and myself as president of the ATM and representative of the Government of the Generality. And on this press wheel what we've done is, precisely, announce a fact that's not exactly how you explained it. You talked about the integration of municipalities from Zone 2 to Zone 1, and that's not what we're doing – that's not what we're doing – and let's not conjugate the staff. We're not integrated..., we're not changing zones, we're not integrating municipalities from zone 2 to zone 1. We are creating a flat rate for the municipality of Zone 2 belonging to the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona. It's substantially different. Because, of course, if we moved past the area, it would be that those in zone 3 would think that, for example, the relationship between Sabadell and Sant Cugat, an increase in area, and that does not happen. What we announced today is that the relationships within this flat rate will be from an area, and that the relationships outside the metropolitan area, outside the flat rate area, will continue to feel exactly as they are now. I've explained on various occasions... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's not exactly the same, we're not going to zone 1, I insist, let's not confuse the staff: we're creating a flat rate to Barcelona's Metropolitan Area. And, indeed, today's ATM debate has also raised the possibility of freezing tariffs for 2019. So much bo — so much bo. All this will be seen, we will see, in effect, in the light of the assumptions of the Generality, the assumptions of the area, of the City Council of Barcelona and of the State. We are very clear that the priority of the department, we understand that the maximum value is this fight against climate change, is to bet – so, suppose – where, say, we do worse than climate change, huh? I mean, where we can fight the climate better. Therefore, public transport issues are absolutely fundamental. We are prepared to change mental parameters, including, what is the historical premise of the Department of Territory and Sustainability, so that we can go this way that you exposed, which is to promote public transport. We have made a big step in the direction of T-Mobility; by 2021 we will have what this tariff and recurrence system is, and we will still have to improve much more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.180.0	Thank you, Counselor. By the turn of the line, he has the word now, for a five-minute space, Deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.181.0	Counselor, not if I get caught badly, huh? , but I said last week: "Is it possible for Catalonia to complete its objectives to avoid global warming by 2030-2050? And I said yes. Is it possible to do so with this counselor? And I said no. I in ratification – in ratification. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And I'll tell you why. It's just that, of course, sometimes – I don't get upset either, but – it's harder to argue with you, because it's true, isn't it? , that you..., yes, climate change is a priority, but the facts aren't there. In change, of course, with someone who denies the climate change is easier to say: "No, it's that this person doesn't care about the climate change. So, you talk a lot about the climate change, but with the concrete facts you deny your speech. So, I don't have a problem that there's a big department that's in Territories and Sustainability, if you feel it! But the problem is that you, in your case, do not lead the part of sustainability or ecology. You, I know it's hard to say there, but you're more of a career counselor than a public transport advisor. Don't get me wrong, but it's the fact that I'm on my way. Either, with the unfolding of roads and road infrastructure, or you are, well, quickly bidding; but in the matter of public transport..., for example, I ask you to fix calendars for very important public transport works and does not answer me. Third element. Miri, I proposed, I mean, measures to finance public transport. Because, of course, everyone is talking about ‘no, it is very important to fight the climate change, we have to do, we have to do...; but, of course, when we have to take courageous, swift and cumbersome measures, that is what the United Nations is asking, such as, for example, deploying the Public Transport Finance Act... I am not making up anything, if you voted for it. An increase of 50_per_cent, for example, from the tourist tax to large cities to finance public transport, yes or no? Will he be in the next presupposition or not? If it's that... answer me. And from here, we debate, from the concrete questions. And, listen, T-Mobility is a scandal. Yeah, I know. All right, we'll change cartron. Or, the tag, in cartro accounts will be plastic, it will tangle less. But if you had heard the T-Mobility it is precisely for what you said, to put in the way that the system of operation of public transport was by recurrence and by mileage. If this doesn't enter until 2021, what's the use of T-Mobility? Why does the Box have our data? Well, fantastic for the Box. But it's... if it was used for public transportation, that's why the T-Mobility bet was. And you don't have leadership in public transportation. You talk to me about Eurovinyetes, and I agree with the Eurovinyeta. But I want to talk about public transportation. The Eurovinyeta, yes. Then we will also discuss which model of Eurovinyeta, whether per kilometre or flat rate. I say it by mileage and by contaminating car, because that's also about public transportation. But anyway, T-Mobility, I'm sorry, but it's a scandal that you announced today. And that wasn't expected. And you're a fan of the commitments we made in 2017, and don't come up with stories. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Metropolity Transport Authority is you. Leadership, they demand leadership for the fight against climate change and public transport. Do it. I repeat, I say to them: « Presuppositions of the Generality. And I make two concrete requests, and if not, they won't be looking for us. The CUP, they've got it there, and I'm sure they'll agree. I want more resources for public transportation. We want more resources for public transport – we want more resources for public transport –, our parliamentary group wants them and the country needs them to fight climate change. And I also ask you again: do you think Catalonia can give up 40 million euros to freeze tariffs? That's what I'm talking about. Explain to the Catalan company that you are not in favour of freezing public transport charges. We have succeeded; he did not succeed, for example, in the City when he was determined, in this case, on the premises of the State. We got it. Therefore, a very concrete proposal. And the other, which I also say: Tarragona Camp tram train. It is not only a question of an infrastructure that is key to the second metropolitan area of Catalonia, but also an element of territorial rebalancing. The Camp de Tarragona does not have any large public transport infrastructure that does not follow. I believe that if we are a complete country and you want the country to be honest and we want it, we agree. I already know that we will not do it at all; I know that it is very difficult; I know the conditions they have with the economic situation in the Generality, so I make proposals to it. We're working together with the Public Transport Finance Deployment Act; we're working together, we're sitting at the table, and we see what tax measures can be put out of the table. If you really are in favour of this, the struggle for public transport and climate change, we will agree. It's easier than going from hand to hand. But, listen, leadership isn't just repeating many times that I'm against climate change, it's taking concrete steps that many times are difficult. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.182.0	Thank you, Mr. Cid. Finally, for the last reply of the councillor, has the word Lord Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.183.0	Mr. Cid, so I think we can agree on a lot of things, but surely not on the appreciation that the leaders are, not the counselor, but the department. I think that we have, we have at the ATM, we have before the gatherings, before the area, we have before the municipalities of the AMTU, it is a continuous bet, we dedicate every time more resources, and we dedicate every time more resources in a strategically thought, thought and applied way, we manage them correctly. And you, in any case, here is dedicated to repeating that we do not have leadership, and I would say that this is not a way of making you show any willingness to improve the same public transport. A few proposals have been made to us, but we need to go deeper. Today we have proposed in the yes of the ATM, for example, not so much to think about the model of contributions that we have to make for the year 2019, but to think about it in a way already, I will not say for ever, but we do give enough sustainability to the length of our own years. And precisely today, in the Board of Directors of the ATM, I proposed that we create a stable working group, with, including, invitation of experts on this subject, which allows us, in many months, to define which model is this, in which I do not suppose, from the outset, if there is to be a tariff freeze, if there is to be more input from the consortiums; but I suppose one thing, yes: that there is to be more input from the State. You're safe here, aren't you? - This one's safe. And it is true that you, as a political force, have announced that you have reached an agreement with the PSOE, as there will be a higher contribution in the general assumptions of the State to the ATM. Well, welcome back, this contribution. We have been asking for it for a long time, so let's hope that we can get it too for our own negotiations. And I have put this topic on the table of the Secretary of State and the Minister of the minute u– from the minute u. In fact, it was part of the agenda of the Bilateral Infrastructure Commission a few times ago. We didn't get there, we couldn't get out of the whole order of the day because we got stuck with what is the settlement of the third additional provision, as it is public and notorious; but in any case, it also forms part of these negotiations. And we'd insist that the state recovers the level of investment that came down a few years ago, which then drastically reduced. They always tell us that this is a question of euros per inhabitant, if we ask to increase this rate to them the accounts of the rest of the State are released; but in any case, we want to recover this level of absolutely essential investments. Therefore, you say that you have reached this agreement, we will see it the moment when the assumptions are to be shaped and voted on. We will also continue to negotiate, because it is absolutely essential that this be done; it is essential that we also find other mechanisms, for example, of taxation. In matters of taxation, well, we have those that we can pull forward, but there are no others that are the competence of the State. The issue of taxation is always complex too. For example, with the law on climate change, approved for this Parliament at the initiative of the Department of Lands and Sustainability, is the taxation of vehicles, CO2, eh? , CO2 vehicles and, well, this one's running. This law is recursed, it does not suspect, – it is recursed, it does not suspect. And we're negotiating with the Ministry for the Ecological Transition that is withdrawing this appeal. We still haven't come to an agreement on this question. In any case, the State has said that surely they want to make a similar tax, as we have been before, if the fan has to make up for us, but we are in negotiations, not so much between the Ministry of Ecological Transition and ourselves, but also for the Joint Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs. We expect it to come to a good place because, if all this goes forward, logically, we'll push it forward and it'll be a finalist tax to improve public transport; here we are. Two concrete data respect line 9 and line 10, which you asked me: « Esconti doni'ncalendaris. You know that this is worth a lot of money, we still have work to do for about €1,100_million, that we have asked the EIB for a credit of €745_million, that is already with the analysis of what risk committees are, that we have to finish processing so that we can get it. Our intention is to get it so that we can finish this central tram, necessary for the articulation of all public transport to the metropolitan area. We work in a program of performances between 2019 and 2025 and that the vagina stations gradually enter into service from the year 2022. Now, from the entrance, what we have to do is work on getting back the same machine that's on the central tram, including some projects that we need to renew. And finally, the tram train. On the Tarragona Camp tram train we are also compromised, and there are compromises in the way it was signed together, Consell Comarcal, Diputación and other agents of the Tarragona Camp as we want to pull forward this infrastructure. From the outset, we need to think about completing what Adif's environmental impact report is, and then we need to think about how we can get together and, in parallel, try to maintain the infrastructure so that we can have this public transport system. We're compromised with projects in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.184.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on infrastructures which are the competence of the Generality]] [[300-00024/12]] Once this inquiry has been completed, we will proceed to the next item on the agenda, which is item 10, which is the question to the Government on the infrastructures that are the competence of the Generality, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose the inquiry, Mr. Jordi Terrades has the word for a term of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.185.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, we'll talk a lot about infrastructure today. The fight against the climate change is not only calming it because we increase the equipment in favor of public transport, it is one more piece but not the only one. The debate about the combination of road and rail infrastructure we also have to set up some of this optical, huh? , or from various optics. Because I look, Catalonia – and in this I think we will agree – is the industrial engine not only of our country, but of the conjunction of the Spanish State. A good part of the growth of the State is produced or accelerated when Catalonia as a motor also pulls out of the economy of the country's joint. And, therefore, a poorly dimensioned investment in infrastructure will stop the growth of Catalonia, but, by retruc, that of the conjunction of the State. This is our visit. The infrastructure endowment in Catalonia and Spain, from our point of view, presents levels similar to modern economies developed, but that continue to persist, or still persist some notable deficiencies. I said to him, at the beginning of the intervention... – I see that they are giving me more time than..., the marker does not run, I thank him, President, who did not give me a little more – I told him that in this view the infrastructures must be planted or must have a different view than the one he probably had when he was five or twenty years ago, from this point of view, the infrastructures do not have to be seen as a finality or a fi in himself; they must have, from our perspective, a clear orientation towards the productive economy and the public service. I believe that this is a necessary and indispensable condition to improve the living conditions of all citizens. And, therefore, they must be effective instruments to help regional planning and cohesion. The time has passed to design infrastructures from that winged conception, from the view of the bell of each school. I think it's necessary to have a vision, I think it's starting to exist, right? , this visit – and then I developed this concept – a global one that responds to the needs of the country's productive sectors. Presuppositionary restrictions on infrastructure have been a reality in the general scenario that we have experienced in the last few years in the Spanish State, but also in Catalonia. If we compare Catalonia with other regions or similar territories in gross domestic product, with the population, with the characteristics of the territory, I believe that we have concluded that Catalonia still has shortcomings in transport infrastructure and of all kinds at these times. And we have one other thing that I think we also need to pay attention to: that, given these presuppositionary restrictions of later years, we begin to notice a deficiency in maintaining the same infrastructure, railways and roads. The telecommunications guys aren't yet, because they're still pretty new, are they? But here we have investment problems, because we start having some complications or collapsing in some part of the territory. And we have deficiencies in another type of infrastructure that affects the whole of the city: water, telecommunications, sanitation, education, green infrastructure... that also depends on your department. We believe, counselor, that if we do not begin to increase the rate of investment, the congestion that is already observed in some infrastructures, both roads and railways, will worsen. At these times – it seems to me that in some other question in which we have spoken strictly of energy issues I have already mentioned –, in the later year fuel consumption quadrupled, if we look at it with the vision of what had been going on four years ago. It is a clear indicator of the economic recovery of this country, of economic activity, of the increase in economic activity. And this economic activity is basically supporting the infrastructure we have in the territory. And there are parts of the country's territories, especially the metropolitan surroundings, that start to suffer serious congestion problems. We will probably not solve this exclusively by making more reels or putting more lives; we will also have to start acting on the demand and how to manage this demand. The debate on the winery that your government has raised, we will fall for it, because, in addition, it should serve us or it could serve us precisely to manage demand congestion not only in peaks of atmospheric contamination, but also in congestion of traffic into and out of these large metropolitan structures. If I have time, then I'll talk a little bit about the winery too, because you know that, matching in the background that we need to raise barriers, that we need to recover the tolls, we have some discrepancies respect who is the final model on which this winery is to be supported or the maintenance on the part of users of consumption, huh? , of these infrastructures. Look, in the next eight years, the public investment in infrastructure has fallen by 60_per_cent, which is a lot. You will probably tell me: "No, it is here that we have suffered a situation of economic crisis that has affected public accounts. Okay. But a 60_per_cent is a 60_per_cent. In fact, at these times, the pes in the gross domestic product of the infrastructures or of the investment that is made there is situated around a 2_per_cent; we could discuss the tenths, but around a 2_per_cent, the half that is now two years ago. It's not short, it's too long. In fact, the pes of public investment in total public expenditure has gone from 12_per_cent in 2007-2008 to less than half of 2017, a 5_per_cent. And this year the reverse rate isn't better, is it? , respects 2017-2016. In fact, the year 2017 the Administration of Catalonia which allocated more economic resources to public investment in infrastructure was the Local Administration. Almost 60 per cent of the investment that was produced in Catalonia came from resources that come from the local administration: from assemblies, metropolitan entities. A 25_percent of the total the Government of Catalonia, the Generality; and, despite the announcements made by Mariano Rajoy when he came to Catalonia, only a 15_percent of the State. In fact, if we look at what has happened in these last twelve, fourteen years, the last six years of the People's Party governments have been, they have been the worst of all in the reversal that would correspond to the State of Catalonia. If this low public investment in Catalonia is maintained, the competitiveness of the Catalan economy and the quality of life in general, from my point of view, will be damaged and we will lose opportunities to create jobs and well-being. You always – I don't know if you're going to do it today – have two arguments when we talk about these issues: the repugnant heritage – but that's what we've been talking about for years, counselor – and that the state hasn't just invested enough. Look, so, with the theme of the State, we could come to terms, and we hope that this is reversed. Now, what about you? You have skills in road infrastructure, rail infrastructure, public transport... And what we've seen is that Catalonia's debt in the last eight years has tripled and the investment in infrastructure has dropped. Therefore, counsel, the question, the inquiry, went in this sense: you are competent, also at the time of investing in the country, and at this time, despite some announcements made to us, we do not know any type of planning or prioritization over which infrastructure they want to assume immediately, neither calendars nor possibilities to execute some of the announcements you have made to us. And beyond the heavyweight debate, which I'm not going into today, I think you have an obligation to establish what the government is planning to do in a temporary horizon... I know that the governments of Catalonia have been struggling lately, huh? But, man! We'd have to try to get along with a five-year time horizon, because between what's planned, they're running projects and they're bidding, they spend a certain amount of time, they'd be happy to know the country. And in the product fabric and in the country's product system what do they think they're doing? I could make it here a wide list of reels that are exclusive to its competence, railway lines and subway lines. The metro lines..., not only is line 9 and line 10: we could talk about the extensions of line 3, line 1, line 2; the connections of Ferrocarrils of the Generalitat de Catalunya; the logistic areas, very important in the country... Therefore, the question and the question, counselor, go in this sense: what do you think you are doing in this time period of your own five years?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.186.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, to answer the question, has the word "adviser Damia Calvet", also for two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.187.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament..., Members of Parliament, Mr Terrades, many thanks also for the whole and the content of your inquiry. We... we are absolutely convinced that since the Department of Territories and Sustainability and, therefore, the Government of the Generality we are working for a continuous improvement of the infrastructure of this country. And these facts prove it: we're planning, running and managing these infrastructures. But obviously, we're doing it with a series of conditions. You ask me not to speak of the weights, but I logically, to force, to be able to express what we can and cannot do from the Department of Territories and Sustainability, I must be able to refer to these weights; if not, I would be cheating. Because I can't get the list of actions that we have pending or that we're doing with one or other calendars to, then, tell me that we have to do with a calendar that conditions don't allow us to execute. I, therefore, one thing goes with the other. It's not just the heritage, it's also; it's not just the state's investments, it's also; I'd put it including a third heaviness, which are the financing mechanisms of the Generality, which are absolutely insufficient to address according to what infrastructures. The list we know. The list... you did one, I could do another, we could do it with the eyes closed and at any time, because years ago it's dedicated to this topic of infrastructure, and I, modestly, so too. And, so, the list's shady, huh? The one that must be explained again, I insist, is these conditions. And I'd like to start this part of the inquiry precisely talking about these conditions. It cannot be obvious that we are starting from this context marked by a structural crisis, accompanied by presuppositionary restrictions, which, in the end, we must complete the deficit objective, which has all been made worse by the intervention of the Generality, first with an economic control and external financing, and later under the effects of the paralysis of Article 155, also. It has caused, therefore, that there are some interventions of the Generality, of the Department of Territories; there are projects, executions and management of infrastructures that have remained conditioned by this paralysis. And – it's the first of the hardships – part of the department's investment volume is compromised, completely compromised by the different payment of certain infrastructures that have been made and that obviously contribute to the country's well-being, both to the mobility of citizens and to the competitiveness of businesses, but that condition us the assumptions: to the shadows, German methods, concessions... This hardship is and will continue to be felt, because it widens for many years, and therefore I can't obviate it. If I did, I'd cheat on myself, and I think you'd be tricking me, too, and that can't be. In the future, the rule of expenditure, the growth of expenditure, which cannot overcome the rise in GDP, makes it complex, moreover, to provide for a back-scenario to reverse volumes before the crisis, eh? That's it. I, on the other hand – according to heaviness – the historical infrastructure policy of the Ministry of Development. Now we are in a new stage, we will see how it evolves; but, in any case, with one government as with the other, with both the governments of the PSOE and the PP, the levels of investment of the State have been absolutely inadequate, much under what the country would need. And this lack of State investment has caused the Government of the Generality to have to deal with certain investments that otherwise, surely, it has distributed them more, with criteria of territorial cohesion, or it has not faced them with different financing mechanisms, which are, in the end, the ones that also cause these conditions of what it was talking about in the first part of the intervention. Very scarce investment, much under what we need, much under Catalonia's pesso respects state GDP. So much so, that in the 2006 reform of the Statute was included the famous third additional provision, which I recognized; it was already a great thing, huh? And you are also, therefore, protagonists, of this recognition, for the proposal of the same State and for approval also by the State. It is a fact, therefore, quite singular, that all the claims that we made a year ago and that some of them were entitled to victimism at the end were recognized in an article of the Statute of Autonomy. Third additional provision: « The State's reversal cannot be lower than Catalonia's pesso in its GDP. And what does not come for the effectively executed infrastructures– also with this concept of ''effectively executed'', because between what is assumed and what is liquid there is a great difference, often there is a great difference, a dramatic difference–' must be returned to the Government of the Generality. With that kind of money, we could also do infrastructure. Home, so good! So good the governments of the Generalitat had the payments that corresponded to them by application of the third provision! But you know it, the story of the third provision: it is solemnly placed in the State; the years of application are seven years, from 2007 to 2013; it is the calculation for 2007: 335_million euros; it is the payment for 2010, it is fine; it is the calculation for 2008: 759_million euros, but it is no longer paid – it is not paid. You were supposed to pay 2011 and it's not paid. It's not his responsibility, but he's not paid. And that makes it easier for us to work on everything that you ask us on this list of infrastructures that have to be carried out, to maintain that it has to be done... It would just be missing; but those money we haven't had. And while we were also paying off the infrastructure debt we had to do because there was no adequate infrastructure on the part of the State. Who knows if we have to do what infrastructure if the national has been doubled. Maybe we don't have to do some of the infrastructure we have to do with different financing mechanisms or German methods. But in any case, this money, this lack of state reversal, could have meant a great contribution to be able to make and pull forward this list that you claim me. The 759 million euros were no longer paid. Now it seems that there is a commitment to be able to advance to 2019 200_million of these 759. It's a part, it's not all they've owed since 2008. Anyway, we didn't agree. We've done the Bilateral Infrastructure Commission, and we still haven't agreed on how to pay. We consider that they have to pay, because they are debtors. The debts are paid and the infrastructures are fan; and, in change, the proposal of the Ministry of Development, now for now... – and we are not talking, and we have constituted, including, a working group on giving continuity to a working group that already existed in order to give an answer and to be able to agree on a return scene of this additional third arrangement – now for now we have not agreed. I like to say that we haven't agreed yet. The list of infrastructures that the Ministry of Development has put on the table to be able to compensate these 200_million euros, we do not give it for good, because we are talking about finishing infrastructures that should already be finished, such as the Castellbisbal bridge or the Vallirana variant. This is infrastructure that needs to be implemented. The debts are debts and are to be paid, like the 335_millions of 2007 that were paid in 2010; which is paid in 759 of 2008 and the sum until 2013. Do you know what the amount of debt of the third additional provision from 2008 to 2013 is up to? Well, 3,800_million euros– 3,800_million euros–, which we should be rebre– which we should be rebre. It is in the reform of the Statute that you proposed, that we approved among all in this chamber – I was not there, but those who were there as Members, obviously – and that referendum the people of Catalonia and that it was, too, to accept on behalf of the State. That's a lot of recognition, that's worth it, huh? , that the current minister and his secretary of State have said: « Eps! We recognize this and it has to be completed. It's a very, very first step. But this music, which sounds good, we have to write, and the letter is agreed, which is paid: 3,800_million euros, so that we can't do this list of infrastructures, this one, yours, mine and that of any other person who also has lists to the head of territorial cohesion through the infrastructures, we need and we are willing to pull it forward. And programming; programming will be done with the department's own mechanisms. We have plans of what we need to do in road infrastructure, in rail infrastructure, we have the director of infrastructure, we have the economic plan to finance GISA, go, infrastructure. And these are the instruments that we are developing; and, to the extent that we have presuppositionary resources, to the extent that we have conditional resources, to the extent that we have return resources from this third additional arrangement, we can do so. While we're at it, we're going to make... we're going to make it a priority. And, from this priority that you asked me – I said before in the question that Mr Cid gave me from the group of the Commons – so, surely, the priorities, for us, are public transport, these are the essentials. You went a little further and also spoke, not just public transport, but also business competitiveness and, therefore, infrastructure, already, transport, so to speak, more general. Well, so, here, the Mediterranean Corridor. The Mediterranean Corridor does not approach us to develop it, it is the State that will develop it; we, like the Government, will be very close to the world that is fulfilling these terms that the Minister announced on his visit here, to Barcelona, a few weeks ago, this 2021 throughout the corridor at the functional level, between Algesires and the French border. So good! I don't know if the date was the right one; but, anyway, so good! This will effectively give competitiveness to our businesses. Therefore, conditional resources, which we must aim to ‘uncondition, eh? In order to be able to pull these lists forward, but also to be able to pay debts on behalf of the State in order to pull forward these same lists, which are absolutely necessary for our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.188.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, the deputy, in this case, for five minutes, has another word for Mr Terrades. In this case, I'm telling you I won't be very generous with time, because I've already been to the first intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.189.0	Thank you, President. From the third addition, to the Socialist Group, we do not have to convince ourselves, we were co-protagonists at the time of drafting the Statute of Autonomy, which you wanted to fulminate, now, not long ago, in this Parliament. But from the third addition, you don't have to convince us. So much so that the first one that makes the new Government of Spain, the Minister of Development, is to raise this issue, huh? Another thing is that I'm meeting her from the other day – and now I'm going to talk about it – I don't just give the positive results that everyone was expecting – you, we, I think the set of socio-economic sectors of the country. Miri, before he spoke, there are three levels of Administration in this country acting on the investment in public infrastructure: the Government of Catalonia, the Government of the State and the Local Administration. I think it should be concluded that three premises are needed, that it should increase public investment, that it should call on all administrations to coordinate. You were talking to me now about the Mediterranean Corridor, it's true, there's a big skeleton, isn't there? , on which will hang a great infrastructure, but that, from here, a multitude of actions in reverse, some will correspond to the Government of Catalonia and others to the local administration. And then I want to claim loyalty to the objects. Look, I don't know what happened to the bilateral committee because it wasn't there, but I have the impression that the government of Catalonia didn't focus this meeting well. I have the impression that... – to see how I say it without harming any possibility – the various councils that were interested in the outcome of this committee were not coordinated. I think someone wanted cash and others wanted infrastructure, huh? The projects. I have a slight feeling that some of these topics have been produced. Because, look, the third additional, if we read it strictly, what you say and what you're talking about is the reversal that corresponds to the State doing in Catalonia, and it's true that we started from lower histories and that's why we put this additional and, therefore, the government of Rodriguez Zapatero and the presidents Maragall and Montilla agreed to this additional, to increase the public investment in Catalonia. And you know, just as we know each other, because we've all talked to each other, what economic and social actors and agents, employers, tradesmen and trade unions want, that's nothing but new bidding in new performances and also maintaining the infrastructure we have at these times. And more resources, precisely, for public transport. Before, Congressman Cid spoke to him about this increase of contribution, if they approve the general assumptions of the State, to the transport metropolity, not only of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, of the conjunction of the State, eh? because I believe that, here, there can be no discrimination in favour of one or the other, because it is true that the government of the PP had restricted the contributions to public transportation in the country. I believe that at last week's summit or bilateral meeting he missed an opportunity to close reverse agreements, as he approached the State. I won't read the list, because you have tea just like me, but, well, there were such important issues as the unfolding of the R-3 or the undergrounding of railway lines to Montcada. Well, I'm not going to make him a shopping list, because we know you and I, because, more than that, he also came out published in some kind of communication. The only thing I'm going to say to him is that we missed an opportunity, that we need to resume these talks in order to bring this negotiation to a positive situation for all of us, for the Government of Catalonia, for the Government of Spain, for the city council. I am also aware of the Government of Spain's willingness to secure agreements and a schedule of actions in the field of infrastructure and more resources in favour of public transport. I think I did not lose, we do not lose, together, this window of opportunity to arrive at levels of agreement for the benefit of the citizens, of the productive sectors of the country, in short, of the economy of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.190.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, for the answer, it's the return, again, of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.191.0	Thank you, Mr. President. MPs, MPs, Mr Terrades, I recognize it – I recognize it – and I said it in my first intervention, the simple fact that the Government of the State, the Ministry of Development, wanted to recover the debate around the third additional provision. It seems to us, gosh, meravellos, practically, huh? Why, so far, we didn't have that level of response on the part of the government that was in Madrid, not much less, huh? ; from this, he does not get angry or feel to talk. I said: "Music sounds good, but music needs to be put down. I, the Bilateral Commission of Infrastructures, did, because it was my turn to preside over the Catalan side. It was a meeting that had not met..., it was a committee that had not met since 2007, and, therefore, no one who was present there had gone to the meetings, to hear us, or to the meeting, had only met once, and, therefore, only by the fact, I insist, to recognize it, to gather it, to want to agree... – and I must also be very sincere, with Minister Abalos, with the Secretary of State, there is no desire to reach agreement –, to reach agreements respect what is..., respect what is related to the very State of autonomy; it is law – it is law – that is, there is nothing else to discuss. The debts are paid, I insist, and the infrastructure must be executed. We did not want to load the third additional state provision or the same state. What he said was that he was brushing himself was Mr. Alfonso Guerra, who, as I recalled, is not a political party activist supporting the government, but rather a political party activist. Therefore, we did not want to load either the Statue or the third additional provision. In any case, what we want is that these 3,800, from 2008 to 2013, is paid, because we have a precedent: in 2007, the 335_millions of 2007, which were paid in 2010, as it has to be, paid because it is the compensation for the lack of investment of the State, and that they served to bring forward transport infrastructures, railway infrastructures, basic journeys for the benefit of our citizens and for the competitiveness of our businesses. This can be done – it can be done – and so we explained it to the Secretary of State, it can be through, including, those who call for a management order. In any case, what is not a waste, we believe – and so we expressed it to the Secretary of State – is that we intend to make up for these 200_million euros – which, I insist, is part of the 2008 debt, which raises 759_million euros – with a list of topical investments, huh? , I insist, the Castellbisbal bridge or the Vallirana variant or the accesses to the port. Home, it's that access to the port should be finished years ago and, in turn, we're still at the calfs. It means that we are rethinking everything that the ministry, until now, Adif and Ports of the State have remained unable to plant. In any case, these are debts that have to be paid for one way or another. I, the Secretary of State, came to tell the Bilateral Committee on Infrastructures – and I suppose it will be in the Minutes and, as the Minutes will be public, when approved, so I will be able to see it – that I accepted the list, the list of infrastructures that the Secretary of State put on the table and that came out, effectively, published in a communication medium, accepted it whenever the level of reversal of the State for the year 2019 is corresponding to what it touches, which is Catalonia's pes in GDP. If the State presents a project of assumptions that has an inversion level – in infrastructures, eh? – of the 18_per_cent, it's more or less the one we keep stable for a few years, and to these investments, I insist, which correspond to the 18_per_cent, we add 200_million. Bingo, I'll take it, of course! But what can't be is that the investment level is a 7 or an 8_per_cent, that's liquid at a 50_per_cent or a 60, so we'd be at the investment level – that's the one that gets used to going through the last few years – pretty much under what it would be and that, besides, part of this investment is the 200_million that we owe in 2008. Home, is that we say that the historical we have, the payment of 2007 exists, it is not an understanding, it exists, the 335_millions of euros have been paid, and, therefore, we claim the same – we claim the same –, what it was done for 2010, which is done now, late, in 2019, but for what it touches. And we, with this, can do, therefore, the inversions of the list that you posed on the table. Important problems that we have..., and I know that you are from Granollers, so I'll tell you that one of the problems that we have of congestion to the network precisely is the C-17 and that we are working with all the assemblies involved, also with the Granollers Assembly, in order to be able to solve this congestion. Certainly, our forecasts are that we are at much lower costs than they were originally expected. Therefore, also efficiency in the solution we approved and can execute. This is our job as the Department of Territory and we're taking it because it's the one that's close to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.192.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on equal opportunities in educational time]] [[300-00025/12]] Let us now turn to the next question, in this case, on equal opportunities in educational time, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. I have the word Mrs Esther Niubó's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.193.0	Good afternoon; thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, you will agree with me, Counselor, that every time more educational time is not just that lecturing time that develops in schools and institutes, but that it is an educational time that has gone much further. We can talk about the education, the range of cultural, social, sporting, extra-school activities that are carried out outside the classroom, with a clear educational intention, beyond the regulated teaching: complementary activities at schools, colonies, outings, couples, or the same time as a fooder, or the middle time, which, without being a lectual time, is, in turn, a very important educational time. And when we talk about lectual time, there is very obvious, that we have to age, or, in any case, that the Government has to age for equal opportunities, that it has to promote policies and measures to promote equity, because no child has been excluded from educational opportunities that translates into a loss of opportunities for personal promotion, training, social integration, employment in a future, and, in short, that it does not retain opportunities for present or future that result in a loss of social, cultural or economic capital in the future. But just as we are very clear in the field of education, so too does the government guarantee this equal opportunity, this non-excluded child and adolescent in the non-educational field that it commented on. We know, today, that the differences between children with this access to non-selective activities and others that their families cannot afford to access may end up being damaged at the end of the compulsory stage. I, without going further, an American initiative, Expanded Schools, for example, pointed out that a 12-year-old with opportunities accumulates six thousand hours more learning than one who doesn't. And this seems to us to be an unbearable cost to a society that is cohesive and equitable. There are great differences that will determine and weigh heavily on the personal, educational and labor paths of the future. Therefore, we start from the base that we consider essential to address the inequalities that are generated in these other spheres and non-lectual educational time, and therefore to work from public powers to combat them. And we want to know what the model his government has at its head is to make it possible. And we hope, therefore, that this inquiry serves us to know and clarify how, from the government, it can work and is working to ensure equal opportunities. Or, in other words, what measures the Government envisages to reduce the Bretxa, every time greater, between those infants who have resources and positive estimates for the fact that they have access to this type of activity, at a time of quality education, and those who, or do not have access to certain activities, or who lack resources from their families, cannot give them the same patterns or opportunities. We know... that there has been a priority for the Government of Pedro Sánchez, Minister Celaá, that among the first measures and proposals he made, he directly chose to address the severe child poverty during the summer months, that there is an increase in aid to children in a situation of vulnerability to cover the fooder during these summer months, that we are aware that it was insufficient; but, in any case, he went in the right direction, and that it is essential, because we know that certain collections, children between four and six years old, can arrive to start the course having lost four pounds since..., in the summer months, due to his vulnerability, and to the fact that he is not only the servant of the fooder, but also the fellowship associated this month and served at this time. They have also taken advantage of the Spanish Government's sports and educational activities for adolescents between twelve and sixteen years who have not had the opportunity to leave the house for a holiday. Or he's made a determined bet again for universalization from zero to three. Counselor Bargalló, I understand that he is aware, they are aware of the differences and discriminations that exist in the field of non-formal or non-formal education between these young people and children, and he wanted to ask him which policies or measures contemplate his department in order to reduce this social and educational Brittany that exists in this field. I want to remind you that Catalonia, like Spain, forms part of a small select group of countries where the poor child exceeds the middle of the poor of the society's conjunction. It seems to us that this is dramatic, that we have to take drastic action, not only its government, but also its government of the Generality, as the joint administration. And, if we start talking about leure, I think we're committing injustice if we say that this education has been in the past long enough abandoned by the Department of Education, and that can't happen any more. As of the year 2014, the same syndic of hardships presented a report on education, a demand was made for legislation to guarantee equality in access of infants to education, it was reported that minors of families with higher returns participated in extra-curricular activities for a month, and, on the contrary, in those vulnerable families only 50_percent of infants, therefore, could participate in it. Afegia, too, that it was necessary to regulate complementary activities to schools with economic aid. And here I would like to ask you whether you have foreseen, on the very assumption that they present us, to incorporate a game of help to encourage, precisely, this access to the students to these activities of lleure in equal opportunities, guaranteeing the right of participation without exclusion for economic reasons. If it is proposed to strengthen aid for the release of many children who are not excluded by economic reasons, and if it is also proposed some measure to guarantee this inclusive, co-educational, intercultural character of these activities. He also insisted, this report of the syndic, on the lack of recognition of the right to law, and claimed the importance of education in law as one of the ways to influence also equity in social cohesion. And, in fact, the year 2015 many social entities asked the government, and also together, a reinforcement and recognition of education in the classroom, because they understood that this access to education, even being a right of children and young people, was not guaranteed and had strong limitations depending on the economic situation of families. And here we go where we are. We also need to be aware that a few years have passed, especially the hardest years of the economic crisis, where even more distances have been eroded, where the social wounds of society, instead of disdaining themselves, have been strengthened. We were created spaces of educational inequality, beyond the more lectual realm, because, as we say, therefore, of the difficulties of many families in accessing these activities. And if we have spent some time as a priority to guarantee the maximum possibilities of certain student profiles in the lectural space, because we are aware of the presuppositionary restrictions, of the detail that has not yet been reversed, we think that it is time to take advantage of this situation, probably more favourable, taking into account the good behaviour of macroeconomic indicators, this higher margin of expenditure that we could take advantage of the autonomous communities, to move from economic recovery, also, to social recovery, to the recovery of social investment. We understand that we are not far away, but it is possible and essential. And, in this margin of economic context better, we understand that it is time, too, to take a step forward and approach education in a more global way. Not only from the point of view of educational centres, traditional curricula, but also from the perspective of more global curricula, such as the acquisition of skills, such as social capital. Therefore, talk about full-time education, about the educational society we would like. We already know of the inequalities that exist in society, not only in the education system, but also that, at least in the fields..., in these educational spaces, whether they are regulated as they are not regulated, all the resources are put in place and the efforts to reduce these differences, especially because the levels of educational segregation are, after all, higher than social segregation exist in certain municipalities and barrels. Counsellor Bargalló, what do you plan to do to ensure the opening of out-of-school activities to the children of the territory? Or are you on condition to ensure that the centers operate around you? It is clear that it is necessary to promote accessibility policies on the part of public authorities in order to avoid these inequalities in the field of education. And that's what we understand is that it can't decentralize, it can't externalize. Responsibility cannot be delegated to assemblies, or to deputies, in such a sensitive environment. Some people know it perfectly and they're working on it. I am talking about the Alliance for Education 360, led by the Barcelona City Council, the Federation of Pedagogical Renewal Movements, the Bofill Foundation, which seems to us to be a fantastic initiative, an implication of combinations of all political colors. And that seems very positive to us. I also have to say that there are some very good experiences in the territory, but all these efforts must go hand in hand with resources and also with governance strategy. We do not ask you to show up these other entities or administrations, that they do a lot of good work, that they need to be allied, but I do accompany them and that drives them or that guarantees the results. And we do want to clarify, or know, what is the concrete role that the department, the government, plays in this strategy. And in this very same full-time education framework, we are particularly concerned about how to ensure adequate support and care for children and adolescents who have special educational needs, in this area, in this non-lectual educational area, so that they do not result out. We know that school teachers are educational spaces that can be, out of the open. It is not possible, or it is not always possible to guarantee adequate care for children with special educational needs at this time, due to lack of support professionals, training of these professionals. What do we do with children and children who, for example, have the autistic spectrum disorder during midday? How do we guarantee, too, that they can enjoy the colonies, the outflows in equal opportunities, without discrimination for economic, territorial, social, cultural or capacity reasons? How is it possible that the inclusive decree does not have this view of educational time outside the lectural sphere, with the exclusion situation that generates in many infants? And here we want to ask, concretely, if you think or plan to review this inclusive decree, precisely to address this full-time education focus and, therefore, the focus included in all these areas. And in this case, I'd leave the first intervention here, and in any case, I'll take advantage of the second to focus more on the food service, midday and the new decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the advisor d'Ensenyament, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.195.0	Thank you, Mr. President. MPs, MPs, I, in a meeting of mayors and directors of education convened by the Barcelona Parliament, just to account for the Alliance Education 360, told them that the mayors have the feeling that they want them at all. And I can assure you, honourable Member, that the Councillor of Education has the feeling that they are asking for everything, too. Because you, some of the things you've done, on which I agree, have said globally: "And that's not what you're going to do together. In one of the things he said, I'm not going to ask for it in the joints, because they're pretty responsible, but it's their competence. Because it's not the competence of the Department of Education all the time, it's not. It's not, either, full-time education. But it is the competence of the Department of Education to work because full-time education is satisfactory for our students. And another thing, too. You've asked a lot of questions. Let's just say, the time you have to ask a question is much shorter, necessarily, than the time I need to answer each of your questions, which I need more time. Therefore, I will try to answer the strength of the questions you have asked, even though you know that when you fight you will tell me that I have not answered them all; but, let's say, if I can answer'some with a certain one, let's say, complex, surely you will appreciate it. Actually, it's true; it's like, education is the length of life and it's always. Education is not just the moment when the girl, the girl, the child, the teenager is in a classroom receiving a regulated teaching. That's not just education, that's right. And it's true, too, that we, like the Department of Education, today, and the Department of Education, now, have the obligation to age, first, for the student when it forms part of this regulated time, of this formal education, but to age, also, for the development of skills and abilities and for the deepening of the knowledge of our student, always, whether in the classroom or out. Of the various things he has commented, we have already met with institutions and entities promoting the 360 Education Alliance, we have already convinced that it is good to work together, that it would not be good for us to form part of the Alliance itself, because the same promoters have asked us to prefer that we do not, and therefore we must work in coordination. And we need to work in a coordinated way in many ways. And I'll comment on some of the ones you've commented on. First of all, in a thing that this department is willing to do and that we have, and that we are working to make it happen, that is, the opening of the teaching centers. Public teaching centres are public spaces, and concerted teaching centres are public spaces as public money. And, therefore, what cannot be is that in a barrio, in a municipality, in a territory, there is a lack of infrastructure to develop education in reading, non-formal education, educational sport; and, in turn, we have educational centres locked out of school hours. It is an absolute inefficiency of resources, which in some cases is flagrant. There are municipalities in Catalonia that the only library there is the school library. There are municipalities in Catalonia that certainly sports infrastructures are only – they are only – the schoolchildren. While this is certainly the most rural world, it is also true that it is a world that deserves infrastructure like the rest. In this sense, for example, agreements that we already have and that we have just released as with the Canovelles Assembly, of the use by our school, of the polysport that is before the school itself as the polysport of the educational center in school hours, as the polysport city in the rest of the hours. We have saved some money at the time of building the school sports track, the school will have a polysport track of better performance than we have built, the municipal polysport track will have more efficiency than if it is not used for the school. There are also some agreements we already have with school libraries, too. This plan of opening of centers is a plan that we will develop very soon, but that we are already due to the practice in some municipalities. Surely this plan works better, and it will work better, in those municipalities where there is a city education project that we can participate in, or there is an education plan around which we have developed together. Because it's from the entourage education plan or the city education project that this 360 Education has a raison d'être and has a logic, beyond the walls of the classroom. Other aspects that you have also commented on, for example, the school cook. He said you wanted to talk to him later, but like I've already mentioned, and this morning he said it as a response to a congresswoman... as long as a child, a boy or a girl, a teenager goes to an educational center is an educated time, and the whole space of an educational center is an educational space. Therefore, there is no difference between a classroom or a beggar, between a classroom and a duck. And if we are to be curios, for example, in the treatment of gender equality for what makes working opportunities in the classroom we have to do in the pati, for example, that in most traditional patis in the country this does not happen. And if we have to take care of the special educational needs of our student we have to take care of the classroom and the fooder, for example – for example. And at this point we're studying, in the particular case you were commenting on ASD, which is the best solution. If the classroom vet also does the lunchtime, with certain work problems, or if we hire lunchtime vets, with problems that the contract would have to be for a very short time. And we're trying to find a solution that will serve the special educational needs of the fooders, and of the time provided to the fooder and of the time after the fooder, with an efficiency of resources. And it also means that the beggar does an equity function, that the fact of the suppression of secondary teachers in the second five institutes has had a negative impact on this equity function that makes the school, and, therefore, that it is likely that this function can be reconsidered. The education on the leure. In higher education, from the Teaching Department we have to work together, we have to help, but it forms part of this package of activities that the Teaching Department has to do with the hands of institutions, assemblies or entities. And it's true that at the time of presuppositionary restrictions this was an aspect that almost disappeared, as much as zero-three. It is also true that the general assumptions of the State, for example, disappeared the zero-sis, which is reversed. And it is true now that the President of the Government of the State has promised the universalization of zero-three, that in some conversation I had with the minister, I have already managed to save that it is a partial universalization of zero-three. But I've also managed to save that no government of the state can decree universalizations if it doesn't accompany them with funding. If we're willing to do it tomorrow, if we're not going to do it tomorrow, we won't be able to do it tomorrow. But I can assure you that if you accompany him, the Government of the State, by financing, tomorrow we begin universalization on the part of the zero-three stage that the Government of the State wants to bring forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.196.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it's the return of Congresswoman Niubo. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.197.0	Thank you, President. Well, you already announced that I would say that you had not answered my questions, and indeed [[the speaker laughs]] There's only a few left to answer. But you did say one thing; you said: "Full-time education would not be the competence of the department in all its thickness. Perhaps so, but he will agree with me that the differences, every more important time, that are produced in this area I understand that someone from the government, the government itself, must be held responsible. And so I think it's important here, if they're not here today, to work for proposals, there are measures, there are policies to, precisely, reduce this Britain, with every time more impact, in education, in training and in the future and in the opportunities of young people. Sounds like a good proposition to me. You said that you were committed to ensuring the opening of public and concerted teaching centres; it seemed positive to me, but it seemed insufficient to me. There are many of the proposals that probably through the motion we would put forward very well that is tirsin forward. About the time of midday, beyond the time of the waiter, it is obvious – and this morning was also 'talking' – that the decree of year 96 must be updated; not only to update it and adapt it to the new social, educational demands, also to the LEC, but also to the Law of Public Contract, with the added management difficulties that this may entail. We would like to ask concretely whether we could account for how this decree's participatory updating process went, which captures the different entities, municipalities or unions with whom they have gone, beyond what we know about the communication media, and whether they are in a position to ensure that we start our own course with this new decree. We were surprised..., you were talking about the fooder as you were educated in time, but in the foreword that came to us through some entity, we see that you maintain the consideration of the fooder as a complementary service to schooling, and it seems to us that you would have to recognize in the new decree this fooder as a truncated service within the education system, as a universal, non-mandatory character, that more than anything else has been included in the curriculum not only of the compulsory, also in the first and second cycle of the infantile, and, obviously, also in the secondary. We know, and you also mentioned, that the compaction of the day involved the sealing of most of the secondary workers. This, in the years of crisis, assumed the stigma that many municipalities, at the time of the closure of this secondary school, were faced by social workers, with whom he supposes: a child who had a few months ago had a fooder and had a fooder's scholarship, after the summer passed to an institute where he had neither a fooder nor a helper, this, and went to eat in a social school. I don't think this can happen again. And I want to ask you directly: do you think of reopening the caterers to all the institutes, as we have asked very recently in the general policy debate in this young man? Because we understand that it is necessary to reverse a very important weight. It's not just because he was commenting on it, there's also a fear of hours, that I've heard it at some conference, and we can agree, but it's imperative that we start the course that differs from how we started with the middle class. On demand. We have been very concerned about some leaks that have appeared under pressure not many days ago when it was pointing to a peak of prices. He knows perfectly well that we are the autonomous community with a higher menu price because he wanted to ask him if he could compromise before this room not to push this price, or how much he has in relation to the regulation of the highest prices. Other things that concern us – we also commented on earlier – are that they provide the food service, this medium space, with specific professionals who can guarantee a truly inclusive service – as we have not talked about going any faster – and that they introduce the appropriate routes that allow this good student attention. If we think it's an educational space we have to provide professional resources to make a teaching task. Because we know of cases – not one, not two but a lot – of massications at the time of the snacker. P3 monitors, therefore, not older children but younger, three years old, or, well, four years old, who are twenty-two, twenty-five children or more. And that, when the course has just begun, it is not only a hell but it generates extreme situations for these workers and conditions of quality of service far beyond which it would be desirable. We have known complaints that place up to forty children under the responsibility of a single professional and, in this context, it is practically impossible to carry out educational activities during this time. He won't give me time, but we wanted to talk about the job insecurity of the education staff. Many times these people we ask for so much training, so much attention, they don't only cover less than the teaching staff but they cover less than the staff who clean schools and institutes. This seems to me to be entrepreneurial and must be done once and for all in order to dignify this sector so precarious. And for what you do to the management of the service – and this may be the most complicated part and I've had a lot left for me by the end – but to say that, you, we've heard that they were announcing that they would pull out of the contract law and force them to contract through public competitions and that the department would take over this management through local councils or the management delegation. And we wanted to know what advice, what support they could have for the different centers, if they're thinking of a professional profile, so some legal advisor to guarantee legal certainty, some support for territorial services that can help them. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And we've talked about beggars and we're not talking about other important contracts at the institutes: clean, sub-administrations. Maybe we should talk...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.198.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.199.0	Yes, thank you, President. And I just wanted to say that it might be hot to extend the transition period as well, in accordance with this new rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.200.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Counselor, again, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.201.0	Yes, thank you, President. MPs and MPs..., MP, in the end in this reply she spoke only of beggars. The diagnosis you've made of problems, which I completely agree with, is a diagnosis that explains why we need to make a new decree. That is to say, to what you have expressed, and certainly you have not had time to say everything you wanted to say, perfectly explains why this new decree is needed. And, putting down the table as well the things he said... well, the servant of the school fooder is a servant that is the competence of the Teaching Department. That it is a service that is competence of the Department of Education that, for reasons of efficiency and necessity decentralisation and proximity, the department cannot manage directly and that has traditionally made a delegation of competencies to the local councils. Delegation of competences to the regional councils which some regional councils had accepted and executed, from others to myths and which some had executed from, after, public contests, and from others not. So in the current panorama there are school mensadores who manage school councils; school mensadores who manage schools; school mensadores who manage schools; school mensadores who manage schools; school mensadores who manage AMPAs; centres that have donated to a private company managed it final; AMPAs who have donated to a private company managed it final; assemblies that... And diversity is very great, and in most cases it was done without a public contest. The reality is that you always had to do it safely, and for a current contract law, let's just say, there's no excuse for not doing it anymore. So it has to be done. Because the best way to ensure that nothing is private is that the management process is done from a public contest. The public contest does not privatize, privatizes manage without public contests. This is an axiom that we have very clear to the reality may have problems, because there will be AMPAs or entities that are managing it very well, that do not have this regulation. We have anticipated in the present draft a lack, a moratorium of two years for the regional councils that are managing it correctly and that the contracts have not finished, but a moratorium of four years in those cases that entities of the third sector – AMPAs – are managing it and take a time of adequacy of the same structures, of adequacy of the system. Because what we don't want is to break things that work well, but to make it work well for something that doesn't work one way or the other. In this sense it seems to me that the figures that have come out of the cost increase, that we have not given them well enough to us, were of two cents or twenty cents. I can assure you of the contracting side: the department is committed to increasing the feeding grants, if we talk about equity, and to bringing it a new tram. You know that now, in cases where the food grant is needed is a woman, according to what is the socioeconomic reality or the special educational need of the student and his family, a 50_per_cent and, in other cases, a hundred_per_cent. We are aware that there is a bunch of cases that do not help the cent_per_cent because they do not complete all the conditions of the cent_per_cent but that giving them 50_per_cent is insufficient. We'll do an intermediate 80_per_cent tram, so many cases of students and families who are now in 50_per_cent can reach 80_per_cent. In these cases, therefore, if the increase was of ten cents in the output price, they would not get out either, let's say, in a negative way. And what we're trying to do is – I said it this morning and I want to say it again – we're going to move it to the territorial services, which, depending on the arrangements, you can move it to the district council, you can move it to an assembly or you can move it to a school center. Follow the centre, the assembly or the council that has to deal with the decision..., through public competitions, the decision of each of the concrete centres, there will always be participation in all and each of the cases the families, and always and in each of the cases can never be more than 40_per_cent of the economic reasons of the decision. 60_percent of the motius of the management grant decision should be social, health and educational motius. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.202.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development]] [[300-00028/12]] Let's move on to the next question, which is about the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The honourable Member Mr Ferran Civit explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.203.0	Thank you, President. Counselors and, in this case, therefore, the competent advisor of the subject matter, the Counsellor Maragall... Also very much thanks to the people of the CADS, also here today. We are talking about the 2030 Agenda, which, as you know, is a global deures of humanity that every country, in this case Catalonia, has to adapt to its needs, a job that here led CADS, and above all that led it was Councilman Raül Romeva, who, as we have discovered today, saw himself as king in a luxury bathhouse that is said to be "locked by Lledoners", who logically did it at the expense of public money, and, as you know, there was also a job in the jacuzzi that had started in the previous legislature with Conseller Bassa and Councilman Rull, while commenting on the application of the 2030 Agenda, all the work that had begun in the previous legislature. It's the fact of living in a permanent privilege. And, of course, the permanent privileges are also very many people who are the main recipients of the 2030 Agenda, which, if we are talking about privileges today, was what Frantz Fanon said were the Earth's condemnations, so fall back, and that today they are still in a much better situation and for which the 2030 Agenda is often short for their needs. They are people who have to emigrate fleeing the war or the climate change; that instead of being people they are considered a threat. We see, for example, now in Guatemala, the country from which my father's family originates, that there are thousands and thousands of people trying to reach Mexico after arriving in the United States and that they find themselves considered as a threat, as if they were a plague, stopped at the border, insulted, vilified and, if possible, uprooted and returned to their homelands of origin. Or the Mediterranean, which, as you well know, day and day is also a taronish colour of the lifeguards of the vines that are lost. If we are talking about freedom of movement of capital, we should also start talking about freedom of movement for people, and not only depend, depending on whether we are interested or not. Also, these people who talk about the 2030 Agenda, we are talking about the cases with which the campaign« Me Too at international level has been dealing with, just like the tip of the iceberg, the great violations of the centuries, mil·lennis, of the heteropatriarchate, in which the women are besieged, humiliated and suffered a lot. Also the millions of enslaved people, especially women and minors, who are object of sexual exploitation. The loss of biodiversity, where forests and wilds are evading to make pastures for branches or to plant palm oil. Wars in which there is direct or indirect participation, in which always – always, always – there are victims; because there are never weapons without victims, and I say, that, in case someone might not even know. These should be the main recipients of the 2030 Agenda. Logically, so are the people here in the country. They are said to be objective and 169 actions, but above all it is a great effort to collect in order to accomplish a few goals that in 2015, and with the Objects of Mil·lenni, they were short, especially in infant and maternal mortality, that we have not reached the desired level, and that now, logically, with nationalist, masculinist and extreme right-wing policies, like those of Donald Trump to the United States, or, of course, therefore, surely those that unfortunately we find ourselves with Bolsonaro in Brazil, the situation still perils much more. Or, logically, the latest reports of climate change, in which with the 1.5 degrees we are about to settle – I would like to remind you that we in the Mediterranean have a degree – there will be even more floods, more natural disasters, more loss of biodiversity, more fame, more wars over resources..., therefore, entering into a vicious circle that extends even more than the objectives. They're deures that we can't leave for our own generations, and we have to do it now. Server goes from the world of listening, and one of the things I've learned..., maybe a lot of people think it's the fact that it's the fact of wearing the vulture, going to the mountain and hiking, but the main motto of listening is to leave the world better than it's ever been. And I think that whoever we are here, no matter what we think, I want to believe that honestly we all come here to do this, and if we're here in politics, all the folds are to do this. So it is a matter of doing it, of doing it already and, above all, of learning from countries like Estonia, Finland, Norway, in which they have assumed these objectives and even, at the same time, to adapt themselves to their own countries, they have assumed that it is still not enough, consider that it is to be more ambitious, and to make ambitious policies not to be red with blaus, as most of it can prove that we are here. And that's why it's very important to change the economic model. An English economist, Arthur Cecil Pigou, was the first to speak, a hundred years ago, that the economy had to internalize those things that it outsourced. So, we didn't care, as long as we had benefits, about the consequences that our economic activities could have; it was the same if we destroyed natural resources with this, if there were people who lost their jobs, if there was contamination..., all that was the same. So, once he's told us so far, it's clear that a lot of things we haven't done right. All those effects, which are generally negative, in the social and environmental spheres must be internalised. We have, once and for all, the duty to put in the comptability all these externalities. Because, when we buy a refresher, the companies, who want us to buy many, many, that we drink more every day, do not worry about whether the bag for which the aluminum has been made has repercussions or not from where it has been extremised, whether this lake is recycled or not or ends in a forest. Clearly... And the same happens, therefore, with things like mobiles, coltan, which I assume the vast majority of people must know that this causes drawings and drawings of thousands of deaths in the last years to countries like the Congo and the Kivu region. Because all actions have consequences, and the current economic system has to start taking over once and for all. There is no neutral action, and our actions can generate destruction or death. And they generate it in co-responsible, and we present it, starting with this chamber, and any other. And the generation of wealth must always be sacredly linked to redistribution and non-generation of negative social and environmental externalities. With the crisis – I suppose the data already speak for themselves – there has been a concentration of the wealth more good than ever before in the history of humanity. There are more rich than ever, but also much poorer. The theory that economics was talking about trickle down, the weariness, the overeating, that those who accumulating upwards after their rich downwards fall, so it's proven that it's fake and that these redistributive dynamics don't work. And, logically, I don't want to talk about the things that we're seeing with the banks every day, with total impunity with which they act in the Spanish State, accompanied by the judicial support, they lose 60,000_million euros in public peace and nothing happens, changing judicial opinions with a phone call... And so it can't go on. The 2030 goals have a title, which is to transform the world. So let's start transforming it, because we have a lot of work going on. And these tenimels we have to do to the Espluga de Francolí, to Barcelona and, of course, to Yemen, because we can't guarantee the 2030 goals if someone comes weapons to Saudi Arabia because they die children to Yemen. Dealing with feudal dictatorships where women's rights are violated every day, killing children in Yemen, or killing dissident police, so I don't know if it's the way. To associate with a country that has not met the objectives of 1830 in democracy I do not know if it is to meet the objectives of 2030, because from here curiously they will not withdraw diplomatic credentials, curiously, from these people. While some export dead and aspire to be part of the G-7 of the arms sale, here in Catalonia we should start exporting values. Catalonia is the 1_per_1,000 of the planet, of the planet's population, we are responsible for doing well in our home and, if possible, exporting to what we do well. There's something we do well from time to time. Certainly, there are many better things, but, for example, the fourteen point, which speaks of the objectives of the 2030 Agenda, speaks of the cure of the oceans. Since the Directorate-General for Fisheries, there has been a maritime co-management strategy that is modeling and being exported to other places where the different conservationist and productive actors have worked together to protect the oceans. And if we have to do this, it's not just about doing the 14th, but the remaining points, because we have to transform the economic and product model, and the public administrations shouldn't have to solve system malfunctions at the end of the line, when the wrong is already done; they should have good principles. The Generalitat has to act with exemplaryness and go marking the path, like a trench, to the rest of the Catalonian society. The world's public administration should invest in productive or financial sectors that invest in weapons, tobacco, uranium, plutonium, coal, gas and oil and, obviously, that do not respect human rights or biodiversity. The fund will rise from Norway, which is the world's most important public investment fund, as you know, its resources come from what is the exploitation of oil and gas; with its investment policies it has decided to start changing it, and it will start immediately, they will not invest in all these things that I was now demanding here, in which the vast majority of public administrations are investing. We are demanding a living world, a sustainable world, a shared world, a world without negative social and environmental externalities, a very different world. Agenda 2030 is not the first step. We have the right to be a free country, but above all we have the duty to make a better country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.204.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word the Foreign Counselor, Mr. Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.205.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputy Ferran Civit – when you arrive at your place, which you must be entering – Members and Members, I want precisely to thank Mr Civit for the..., in other words, not only the presentation, but also the attitude, right? , knowledge, the implication he has demonstrated and the passage he has put in it, and also the search for conclusions, the deeper and more political derivatives of the plantation that today fem, which could be interpreted as a more technical and economic issue. I will, in turn, perhaps do more about these concepts, an explanation of what we are doing: what we are doing, where we are and the prospects that we see from the government with regard to the 2030 Agenda. Let me also greet Mr Arnau Queralt, the director of the Sustainable Development Council, who is accompanying us today at this session. Maybe it's worth starting by saying today is October 24th and it's United Nations Day, huh? , because it commemorated the entry into force of the Charter of United Nations, year 45. And so it's also... I'm saying because the origin of this 2030 Agenda is the United Nations, as we all know. On September 2015, the United Nations General Assembly approved the 2030 Agenda for Sustainability. Let us be clear: the 2030 Agenda is not an international event, nor is it a convention, nor is it a very interesting seminar on the environment. It is a global compromise, it is a compromise of the world, practically all the states of the world, with a certain conception, certain perfectly defined and concrete expressions. The key words of the Agenda, summarized in their said objectives, are pro-explicit: poor, fam, salutation, education, genere, water, energy, work, industry, inequality, cities, consumption, climate, underwater life, the Earth, pau and justice. I mean, that's all, huh? , and it's this vision as transversal as it's ambitious to go to the bottom of each of these questions. Well, so these global goals said here we have them, and they affect us all, as well as Catalonia, and it seems to me that what we're doing is trying to answer it, to be at the height of the challenge that's falling apart. It is true, with the time set for 2030, if we give compliments to the objective in a solvent and credible and tangible way, we would be... I mean, I don't know if completely, but in any case we would be very close to the goal of reducing poverty and hunger, reducing inequalities in and between countries, building peaceful, just and inclusive societies, protecting human rights, gender equality, etcetera, eh? But... I mean, this is part of a full route that's perfectly mapped out, that's not just a toast or just an expression of desires or good intentions. We have only eleven years to bring all these objectives forward, so that there is a job, and a job demanding and very compromise, to which we have to respond as the government, as the Parliament also, for sure – in the end we will talk – and as the country, as the society, in all its senses. That's why we approved a first government plan for 2016 in relation to this goal to implement the 2030 Agenda, isn't it? And now we've just placed another couple of them on the Board of Governors, which a few weeks ago we introduced and approved, considering for this legislature the same concept and the same objectives. We have a very important piece of work. The report « Agenda 2030: transforming Catalonia, improving the world, developed by the Council Advisor for Sustainable Development ; the report, which was delivered in September 2016 and that what is already identified, from this perspective of the Council Advisor, absolutely independent, is a clear message to the Government respecting the challenges it has to face, and it is also at the same time, obviously, a reference not only for the Government, but also for the society as a whole, as they have already been. We need to remember, in fact, how the Member, Raül Romeva's paper, has already done as a driving force, at that initial moment, for the preparation and installation of the agenda, but also for the involvement of Councillor Rull, Counsellor de Territori, who was absolutely involved, and of Conseller Dolors Bassa, precisely, Councillor de Treball, who assumed the concept of social policies included in the agenda and who co-organised or accepted the repte of organizing, to direct the first day of dissemination to our country of the 2030 Agenda. All three of you, as you know, today they can't come with us. And we must also appreciate, in this sense, the work of the council, of its president, Mr. Rodés, of the seven advisors and advisers and of his technical team. It is not by chance that the Catalan CADS has presided over the network of homologous councils throughout Europe for four years. And it's still less chance that a few weeks ago this presidency of the European network of councils has been renewed for two more years, huh? So, let's keep it clear and keep it present, we're doing the job well done. We have to, uh, take a step further. We have the report, we have a first version of the plan, we have to start from this basic work plan document that concretely sets out the objectives and the 169 global yarns in, I consciously say what I'm saying, huh? , approximately 750 concrete commitments. And holding 750 concrete commitments is a level of responsibility and ambition perfectly, it seems to me, descriptive, having present that include, the majority of objectives, Catalonia ends– Catalonia for ourselves– but also the role and functions of Catalonia in the world. We have a 2030 Agenda government as well. In addition to the CADS, we have the Interdepartmental Commission and the Technical Commission, integrated for the thirteen departments, because it affects everyone, who are effectively involved and responsible, through these bodies, in their direction and execution. We should certainly add an explicit dimension, above all from the 2020 premise, with all probability, when we have formally approved the implementation plan of the government's agenda. As of 2020, I believe that the assumptions of the Generality should be inculcated, integrated and explicit about what is also the presuppositional view of the agenda, in what and how these objectives are concrete. We have, as we have seen, concrete examples. Before Mr. Civit spoke of the themes of maritime strategy. We can talk about questions such as the establishment of the guaranteed income of citizens– objective number 1– or the reduction of food mismanagement in 50_per_cent, which forms part of objective number 12, or the protection of 30_per_cent of the Catalan territory for reasons of natural heritage and biodiversity, which is in objective 15. So it's obvious that we're laid and well laid. We have had a chance to see that at the United Nations Assembly in July, where the role of cities and regions of the world in relation to the agenda was finally presented. Our participation was perfectly, finally, recognized and valued, as is already happening, as it was before, in Europe; despite, of course, some obstacles that someone tried to put us from other levels of government. I believe that we are now aiming to formally approve the plan, as in government, at the May of the year you see, in May 2019, from the work of these interdepartmental commissions and their technical committee. It is a very intense calendar, because it needs to define and concreteize and detail absolutely the whole work. But I think it's an inescapable compromise that we can't help but complete. We will also be in a position to establish a monitoring and reporting system. And we will do so, say, consciously, because we are, in fact, formulating a level of self-requirement as high as the ambition of the same 2030 Agenda. And, finally, I would like to make a reference to what I think is also obvious: the Parliament, the representation of society, has to play a key role in this 2030 Agenda. And I would like to propose that Parliament decide which is its mechanism of involvement: what kind of committee, what kind of follow-up mechanism, also control of the deployment and application of the plan. I think it'll be interesting if we move in this direction. And I also believe, finally, that it would be opportune, from this inquiry, to formulate a motion expressing this common Government-Parliament compromise, and that we did so with the immediateness that, ultimately, the issue requires and that sets out the whole strategy that we have drawn and well drawn from the Government for this 2030 Agenda, which I am pleased to be able to present, share and assume as a result of the Government's, Parliament's and its society's compromise. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] There are a lot of entities, universities, research centers, companies that will have to change things, that will have to make decisions, that will have to feel questioned...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.206.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.207.0	...involved and responsible. That's how it's gonna be. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.208.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? Okay. So there's no reply. [[Question to the Government on the external plans for the emergence of nuclear power plants]] [[300-00029/12]] We continue with the following inquiry, which is on the external plans for the emergence of nuclear power plants, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. In this case, Mr Lluís Salvado asked the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.209.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, well, as is well known, three of the seven nuclear reactors that are now operating at the level of the Spanish State are located in Catalonia: two in Asco, one in Vandellòs, where more is to be added to another nuclear reactor which, after the accident of year 89, is found at these moments out of operation. On the nuclear debate, we maintain and could talk about a lot of fundamental challenges for the country; surely we should talk about that we are not yet sufficiently prepared for the generation of alternative energies for when the tank power stations. The Spanish State, today, has not yet been able to solve long term nuclear waste management, and surely we are still working very hard to generate an economic fabric that alternates with the municipality of the nuclear entourage, where a lot of people have seen directly or indirectly from nuclear power plants. But in this question, what we would like to do is focus on a challenge that directly impacts on the citizenry, which is the management of nuclear-emergency plans. It is a competence of the Spanish State, which, as is usual, is managed with that which, in the name of Castor: negligently, defuse the security of people, failing to comply with community directives, failing to comply with its own legislation – it has done so only a general simulation in the last thirty years – and, moreover, defuse the infrastructures necessary for the management of an emergence as severe as nuclear. For all this, this Parliament and our Government, despite having no skills, must worry and take care of such an uplifting issue, and such an extraordinary impact on our citizenship. In fact, in the 1980s, this Parliament was already a commission of inquiry, and later a commission of study on nuclear safety. And unfortunately, the debates that were held thirty years ago in this chamber, and the conclusions of those commissions, many of them today, are still pending resolution. And when we talk about nuclear safety, a lot of people are still watering down that paradigm of the comers of nuclear energy, which they imposed many decades ago, that paradigm of the impossibility of the existence of accidents at nuclear power plants. Unfortunately, the story has demonstrated the falsehood of that paradigm, and the accidents that could not theoretically occur have never been produced, and in some cases extremely serious accidents, such as in Maiak, Russia, year 57; in Windscale, England, also year 57; in Pennsylvania, at the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant, year 79; in Txernóbil, year 86; in Vandellòs, the 89, and the harder and harder one, that of Fukushima, the year 2011. This latest accident, in Fukushima, definitely represented not so much the fission of the paradigm of nuclear security, but also put into evidence the inability of the institutions to protect the population of nuclear accidents, even to Japan, the country at the world level most prepared for the management of great catastrophes. In Fukushima 150,000 people were evacuated, all residents of the twenty-kilometre radius, and many of the residents up to fifty kilometres away from the same nuclear power plant. There have been a number of massive radiation leaks, which have exposed the difficulty of confining the citizens in their homes, the difficulties in distributing food, water, the exhaustion of potassium iodide reserves, the difficulties and the lack of preparation of the assistance staff to work in an environment of high levels of radiation, hospitals have been abandoned, care centres for the great people have been abandoned. The Fukushima accident caused the Council of the European Union to amend the Euratom Directive in 2014 by increasing safety measures and criteria for nuclear installations. The directive, which had to be transposed by the states involved before August 15, 2017..., and which, obviously, the Spanish State, as usual, has not yet transposed the Community directive or incorporated all Fukushima's learning into the various emergencies plans. First of all, it has not updated Pla BEN, the basic nuclear power plant, which is from 2004, nor has it updated Penta, the external nuclear power plant of the nuclear power plants in Asco and Vandellòs, which is from 2009. In fact, the same president of the Nuclear Security Council, on September 11th, assumed the Congress of Deputies, in a writing that brings us to the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left..., recognizes that the adaptation of the emergency plans has not yet been completed, that it recognizes that there has not yet been an increase in the coverage of deu_quilómeters to twenty_quilómeters, as we assume, as a basic measure, after the Fukushima accident, that it is absolutely essential. And assume, the President of the Nuclear Security Council, that it is necessary to facilitate to these municipalities that are found in the radius between god and twenty-five kilometers all the protection mechanisms that today already have the municipalities of zone 1, those that are included in the crown of the first two kilometers. Seven years later, the Nuclear Security Council of the Ministry of the Interior did not even make it to the basics, which is to extend to this twenty-kilometre crown in the plans of emergence. It is, therefore, a close negligence of a third world country; more so, I have seen that Vandellòs today is a nuclear power station which, unlike all the other nuclear power plants in the Spanish State that are found in unpopulated territories..., within the twenty-kilometre radius of Vandellòs, today and especially in the summer periods, reside hundreds of thousands of people; many of these people, tourists who have neither the slightest information nor the least training on how to act before an emergence. The same point 5.5 of the Penta, of the external Nuclear Emergencies Plate of the nuclear power plants of Ascó and Vandellòs, commits the Directorate General of Civil Protection and Emergencies of the Ministry of Interior and the same Nuclear Security Council to coordinate at least one general simulation every three years. The late fake – and the only fake that's come to an end – is thirty years ago. And that, obviously, is a scandal, and it shows the lack of capacity and priority on the part of the Spanish State towards a question that is absolutely fit. The simulacre of the year 87, those who face the record, those who still have the opportunity, at that time, to participate in it, the record as an experience between tragic and comic. Of course, instead of doing a mocking every three years, the fact of doing it every thirty years is neither an oblivion nor a problem of administered character. This neglect of its obligations on the part of the State responds to a first-class political negligence, to a structural negligence of the same Spanish State, and responds to the conviction on the part of the State that a general simulation should be carried out, this would highlight the lack of resources, highlight the lack of infrastructure and the logistical incapacity of the State to deal with it. A general simulation would show that the R15 railway line, which passes through Ascó, is a relic of the past; that the major places of many of the nuclear environment municipalities today do not have mobile telephone coverage; that in Riba-Roja there continues to exist one of the main ways of evacuation, with a bridge over the river Ebre, that beyond the river Ebre continues on a road of stones, on a road of car; that the planned classification and decontamination stations of the Penta are not operational in absolute terms. And I would point out that throughout the Spanish State, today, there is only one hospital in Madrid, prepared to carry out the internal decontamination of the affected people. And it would be obvious that the command center of the Penta, the Cecop, of Tarragona, still works, today, on the basis of faxes, and does not have the technological resources that mark the legislation. While, just a few kilometres away, the Generality had the Czech Republic, a centre that today has all the resources needed to manage an emergence of these dimensions. The Government of Catalonia today is responsible for a very important part of the Penta's working groups. And the vast majority of resources that, before an emergency, would be able to mobilize: bombers, police, health personnel, staff of social services. The Government of the Generalitat Catalunya is the Administration that if one day had passed something, it would have to be on the side of the assemblies, when these, surely, would have neither the formation nor the information nor the resources necessary to give response to one of the most difficult needs a country can face. It is for this reason that it seems to us that we demand from the Spanish State that either we pass on our competences, or we assume them rigorously, that we assume these obligations rigorously while we are still part of this State. And it seems essential to me that this Parliament, as it did in the 1980s..., we involve it, we put it on, and we raise the captivator. That the Catalan Government cannot be accomplices of such negligence, and this Parliament cannot fail to denounce the Castor style management of a subject with such a transcendent impact on our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.210.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.211.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, MP Lluís Salvado, also mention that today the Director General of Energy, Mines and Industrial Security will accompany us. In response to the question put by Mr Salvado, first of all, I would like to make it clear that the subject of the question is a competence of the Interior, so that, from this advice, that of Enterprise and Knowledge, we are in fact responsible, because we have competence in the matter of energy. Therefore, as I said, therefore, we are responsible for this current situation in Catalonia, because it respects nuclear energy and its management, so we do have to say. Catalonia, as has been said, counts with three nuclear power plants in operation: Ascó I, Ascó II and Vandellòs, and a total of 3,037 megawatts of installed power, covering approximately 40_percent– 40_percent– of annual electricity demand, according to a report by Icaen, to which reference has already been made in part. At the length of these years there has been an intense debate about the future of nuclear power plants, among those who defend their perlongation, and those who defend their confinement. With the Climate Change Law, Law 16/2017, August 1, this point has been resolved, and is that Article 19.2 of this regulation exposes that for the energy transition towards a renewable, denuclearized and decarbonized cent-per-cent model, neutral in emissions of gases with winter effects, first of all, a transition plan has to be established for the closure, not beyond 2017, of nuclear power plants, and, above all, for the preservation of the direct jobs generated in the territory. Let me say to you, respect the management of the national emergency plans, that the current external emergency plan, as you have exposed us, is the Penta, the Outer Nuclear Emergency Plan of the nuclear power plants of Ascó and Vandellòs, in Tarragona, which was approved in its later version for the Council of Ministers Agreement on 16 October 2009. This plan was prepared for the Ministry of Interior, with a favourable report from the Nuclear Security Council and the National Commission for State Civil Protection. In view of this standard framework, the Generalitat has no competence in the design and direction of the external nuclear energy plans of the Catalan power stations. And currently the Generalitat only participates in the logistic or health action groups, but always under the directives of the director of the Outer Nuclear Emergency Plate at the nuclear power plants of Ascó and Vandellòs, in Tarragona, the Penta Plate. Therefore, the role that the Catalan Government has in the face of the emerging situation is of collaboration and participation, mainly in the logistic and health groups, which may periodically have technical commissions to improve and concrete the themes of the Penta. In these meetings you can propose updates, but the final decision always comes in the ministry, which, at the time of acting through the director of the Penta. In short, we are the main ones affected, as you thought, and only allow us to participate, for which we are absolutely against, because everything that affects our problems and territories affects us. Before this situation, you can be sure that our position is to act to reinforce and complete security plans. In this sense, our commitment is to like the Government, the Spanish Government, to the compliment of Euratom Directive 2009/71, so as to equip us in the conditions of security of the rest of the European Union's countries, or to the assimilation of competence and resources on the part of the Generality in this very sensitive matter. On the subject of simulations that you have already mentioned with a lot of uncertainty, answer that, effectively, you have the obligation to simulate periodics to see how all groups react before a simulated emergence. The final decision on the contributions of the simulacres also has the ministry, and the director of the Penta, made it put into evidence, other times, as you also well said, the ineffectiveness and insecurity on the part of the Spanish government, which does not comply with its obligations. As you have stated, there must be a general simulation every three years, and, indeed, there has been one _of_sun thirty years ago. Our vision respects this issue remains in questions to the Congress, in contributions to the European Union, in interventions, proposals and requests by this Government to an issue as important as security. The only body or table that can be used to validate our criteria is when the Penta opens up successive revisions and improvements, but always coordinated with a final protocol that approves the ministry, that leaves us back to the margin of decision and relegates us to a situation of defencelessness, because, let's remember, the modifications are fan under the proposals of the ministry, which studies and informs the National Security Council. But, despite the continued intention of the Spanish State in matters of security to leave us on the sidelines, our responsibility has led us to have, before a possible case of radiological emergence, both Catalan nuclear power stations and those outside Catalonia, the Generalitat with a network of measuring stations for environmental radio monitoring. This network was installed in 1986 and has evolved since 2009 with advanced technologies. The stations of this network currently have analytical capacity to determine, in real time, the possible and concrete radioactive contaminants dispersed by the environment, both in the area and in the water. This network has a special density in the areas around Catalan nuclear power plants, but it is extended throughout the Catalan territory, with perimeter stations to capture possible entrances from radioactive clouds from other countries. On the part of our Government it is expected that this vague network will grow in stations and locations to extend the rings around nuclear power plants, and that it will also be vaguer by completing more efficient territorial coverage. In fact, the network of real-time environmental radio surveillance stations in Catalonia is being completed and improved at the country level, allowing for a high level of control of the existing environmental radiological situation, which is a key element in the making of subsequent decisions. Mr. Salvadó, like the conclusion of everything you have put forward, I want you to have no doubt that this government's main intention is to be the holder of nuclear safety competence, because our aim is to compliment the Euratom European directive, and this fact would be to behave as the one who manages the direction and coordination of the Penta, and, at the same time, to be able to establish a civil safety network, coordinated with the administrations of the territory. Because, given the importance and relevancy of the assemblies, the councils and the deputies in these questions, both by proximity and by competence, that's what would warm us up. And if I let myself go a little further, the fact that I can relax ownership and work with all the resources and skills that respect nuclear power stations should also be an objective to achieve. Our compromise is that of planning for the reindustrialisation of areas with nuclear power stations, always relying on the relevant resources, because we all want to improve the living conditions of the citizenry and work together in this welfare society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-24-1801.212.0	Thank you, Counselor. As long as there is no reply in this inquiry, we will suspend the Ple until tomorrow at two-quarters of a god. Before, however, I must say that there has been a request made by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, and that, in accordance with Rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure, there is an alteration of the order of the day tomorrow in the sense that the current point 15, that is, the question to the Government on security policies relating to the right to private property, may be substantiated after the question that appears as point 17 of the order of the day. Therefore, it would be the last, the last of the interrogations. Up to two quarters tomorrow. Thank you.
