ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.1.0	Well, good afternoon. Before starting the order of the day and the session, allow me to greet, in the name of the chamber, the representatives of Parliament and the Generality, the former deputies and authorities and guests who today accompany us, very late. Too late for everyone. As you know... yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.2.0	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.3.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.4.0	Mr President, the plenary at which we are today was convened last night, after hasty calls to call us today to the investiture of a person who seems to be marked by the judicial calendar, and who is also being investigated for important crimes. First, that we do not understand why we must obey, in this Chamber, the judicial calendars of some of the people who are deputies in this Chamber, but that we have not been allowed to make these allegations in the Board of Spokesmen, which for us is the body where the various groups – not only the petitioner, who is the largest group in this Chamber – could express to the President their concern about this way of exercising politics in Catalonia, which is becoming a custom. That is why, Mr Torrent, it seems to us that the latest news that the abstention of four Members could also assume that this investiture will not even be held today..., to us, reaffirms that we are using the Parliament of Catalonia as the theater in which a farce is being represented to deceive continuously, to lie to all Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.5.0	Mr. Carrizosa, vagi endant. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.6.0	I have not been able to say this at the Spokesman's Meeting, which is why I wanted to say it today in the Chamber, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.7.0	All right, so he's already said it. All right. In any case, specify that, as you know, the call has been made fully regulatory; it is a fully regulatory and therefore feasible call. The candidate who submets today to this debate has all the powers and all the political rights to submetrate this investiture. And, for what you do to the Board of Spokespersons and the Bureau, as you also know, it is not a requirement to make this Board of Spokespersons and this Board of Spokespersons, as long as the investiture debate is not raised at the Board of Spokespersons. The sequence of this debate is not placed on a doorman's meeting or on a table, and therefore, as you know, because it is done by coming up with a report of the same people, they do not have... or there is no obligation or automation to hold this doorman's meeting and this table which, for another band, as you know, are convened tomorrow. So, if there's nothing else, let's continue with this one point of the order of the day. [[Programme debate and investiture vote by Mr Jordi Turull and Mr Black, candidate for the presidency of the Generality]] [[201-00003/12]] According to Rule 149.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, the investment debate begins with the reading of the resolution of the President of the Parliament in which the candidate for the Presidency of the Generality is proposed. I pray the secretary first, in this case, that I give reading to this resolution. Secretaries...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.8.0	Mr. President... « Proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Generality. According to Article 4 of Law 13/2008 of 5 November of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, and since the Member I proposed on 5 March as a candidate for the Presidency of the Generality has renounced it, that proposal is without effect. And they had again consulted the representatives of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups, proposed as the new candidate the deputy Jordi Turull and Black. Signed: the Speaker of the Parliament of Catalonia, Roger Torrent and Ramio. Palau del Parlament, March 21, 2018.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.9.0	Thank you, first secretaries. Anyway now, so it's back to the proposed candidate, Mr. Jordi Turull and Black. I remember, in any case, candidate, that there is no time limit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, President Mas, President Rigol, President Benach, ladies and gentlemen, at this difficult, solemn hour, but also hopeful of the history of Catalonia, I address all of you, elected and legitimate representatives of the people of Catalonia. And I also appeal to all those who today cannot be with us, deprived of freedom or outside the country. To all of them: President Puigdemont, Oriol Junqueras, Quim Forn, Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Cuixart, Lluís Puig, Meritxell Serret, Toni Comín, Clara Ponsatí and Anna Gabriel, the most felt hug from this Parliament, expressing the will of Catalans. I don't know who it should be here today, I know, and you know it perfectly well. Two Members of this House – the very honorable President Carles Puigdemont and the illustrious, friend and companion, Jordi Sánchez – were deprived of the right to be chosen when, by the will of this House, they could have been chosen as President of the Government of Catalonia, voted for the representatives who had come out of the ballot box of the elections of 21 December. President Puigdemont, who is a member of the blockade of this chamber and for external factors– or above all for external factors– temporarily renounced the investiture, as Jordi Sánchez did. They advanced the country to all, to donate to the search for solutions that allow to unlock this difficult anomaly and situation to be able to carry out the electoral result of the 21st of December. Allow me to tell them that I feel part of this box of the chain that connects the past days with the days that they will come and that I aspire to be worthy of it. I might not have accepted that responsibility. In fact, there have been many people who, seeing as things are, seeing as they are spent, tell me that you think only of me and my family and that you look at assuming a zero risk. And I've been told by a lot of people who know me and who cherish me, who know that I've always moved more to do than not to be. They know me well, too. They know that I know of those who, at the places and at the responsibilities, I think it should be the greens and the matures. They know the only thing that's unforgivable to me is my convictions and my scale of values. I've been politically committed for many years. In politics, as in many other areas, there is soc per vocation. By vocation of service; to help, to do, to claim. It's true that there's one thing in my political commitment that's serving Catalonia. I'm very esteemed – some say that maybe mass – this country that excites me, its people – all its people – its impenetrable, its solidarity, its tarann, its diversity. I'm a lover of this land. And it's that, her people, her landscapes, they're about to fall in love with her. And in my case, as I suppose, in the case of all of you, to fall in love and not commit to it. In his future, in his ambitions, in his illusions, in his reptes. I'm sure it's just like all of you. In life, the only heritage I have proposed to have and preserve is the one that has left me my opinions and my parents: honesty with one and the same, going to sleep every day with a calm conscience, striving from the dawn until the sun rises and everything you do, always, always, I can look at the eyes of my daughters, and at my wife and all those people who have put their trust in me. Why am I saying that? Not to talk about me, but in the sense that if before the crux we find ourselves, if before this difficult hour I have sought these days comfort and a supposed zero risk, maybe I would have less curses, but I know, and it would be a soul in pain and it would cost me to look at my girls' eyes. And, therefore, I prefer to take the risk of being the victim of injustice, than to help the head and not do anything when they propose, so that I can put your grin in a situation like the present. I repeat, I prefer the risk of being the victim of injustices than of disheartening'm' at a time like the present. And that's why I'm here. Much will be, convinced and at the same time excited and elusive. Very convinced why, go as you go, in time and to the question: "And when this happened in Catalonia, what did you do? I could say, "I was, I put the good and the better of what was in my hands. And that is why I also want to give an infinite thanks to the parliamentary group that proposed to me. Politics is made by people and, as I said, "people mean feelings, they mean convictions, they mean values. But talking about people also means taking on uncertainties, mistakes, surprises and disappointments. And I'm also saying that I'm in front of you, surely, with my long political trajectory, with some uncertainties and surely with mistakes or with many mistakes, I won't deny it. The important thing is to learn 'n' from errors; accept them and correct them. Those who don't rent meals don't ever fail. I haven't rented much for a long time, and I'm sure I've missed a few. I'm saying that because I'm also aware of what I can do and what I can't do. I like working as a team, giving starship to the team, working with confidence and working from trust. There are people who prefer to be a flower in a female to stand out and there are others that we like better to be a flower in a field of roses because they can enjoy everyone. For all this I know here, not by any provocation or anyone, not by an ambition to be, but by my commitment to be able to do. And I take charge with all the consequences. And so, with all the emotion and transcendence of the moment, I want to send you first of all a message of pau, of dialect, of fraternity and also of trust, responsibility and hope, because the difficult events experienced in our country these past few months have only made reference to what we already knew about our people, the dignity of a citizen who has acted responsibly and hopefully in an exceptional historical cruelty of our country. It could not be otherwise: Catalans act according to the values that have configured us as the people, which define us as the nation. And today, the day they ask for confidence to continue building a more just, more supportive, more free country, today, I want to start by asking them, to ask us to preserve the most precious threefold of our people: our values, those that make us who we are, visquem where we are, vote what we vote for. In the first place, and the most important of all, a deep and grueling spirit of darkness, which has the origin already in the X century, and which has always guided our steps to these last days so intensely lived in the streets and the places of our towns and cities. Only then can you hear, after the day of '1 October, that cry which was felt by anyone else, in response to the violence, to the force used against defenceless citizens, which only wanted to vote, a cry which said: « Pau, som gentes de pau. Yes, the Catalans are poor people and as a candidate for this investiture, I feel proud of a people that makes the cock their flag, because a people that makes the dick their flag, is a people that no one will ever be able to win. But Catalans cannot understand it either if it is not taken into account that for us the freedom and dignity of man are the center and the measure of the world; that we are passionate about culture, the arts and literature; that the struggle that we are fighting has not been felt if it is not accompanied by the struggle for the most advanced social rights and the work of people at all; that we are inspired by the values of the declarations of the rights of the men and of the peoples of the United Nations, and that we do not judge the head before injustice, the dangers and threats. It brings us a spirit of citizenship that goes all the way. Teachers and teachers, already from the beginnings of the 20th century, have formed and taught young people, from different generations of this country, our civic values, of pau, of justice, of democracy. Critic and free cities have formed, and for this reason Catalan schools have always been open to innovation and modernity. These are us, like so many other peoples of the world, neither better nor worse than others, but jealous of our freedom and accomplices of democracy. And we're also the country of the Lord and the wrath and the well done work. We are original because we like to go back to the origin. And we push our mountains to look at the sky and sail through our marches to see the stars. And we raise castles, and we win Michelin stars in the kitchen, and our best scientists and researchers work to advance humanity. And we're a society that suffers for those who suffer. Patience and act. A country that gives solidarity on all four sides. These are our principles and our values, this is our people, so we present ourselves to the international community. It is for them that we are here today, for these values, with the receipt that the writer and journalist Patrícia Gabancho came to us because he pulled us forward, and recommended us talent, project, leadership, unity. And, finally, allow me to assign one of the last values that make us people: the pact, the dialog, the entece. We're people of understanding who want to come to terms. The pact and the given word are all, in this country that respects the various views and the morning, but that always eagerly seeks the great consensus. We've always done it, and we want to keep doing it, because if we stop doing it, we won't be us. These are the values of this country; they are the values, all of them, that must inspire the government of this country. And that's what I'm proposing. And today, solemnly, after the indisputable victory of the independence forces in the past elections, let us again offer assurance to the Spanish Government to dialogue. Someone will say – and you have all the motius – that it is biting in cold iron, but that everyone sees it, that the world sees that, for us, it will not stay. We ask you to take part in the same table in order to solve the political problems that we have in political terms. From government to government. Listen to us and give out to this persistent cry and that we see it permanent, which is lived in Catalan society. Or didn't President Macia negotiate with the Government of the Spanish Republic? Or didn't President Tarradellas negotiate with the government of President Adolfo Suárez? Why doesn't he want to talk now? Why should it not be possible to discuss and negotiate the President of Catalonia who has been invested in this chamber with the Spanish Government, Mr. Mariano Rajoy? The voice and representatives of more than two million Catalans who voted again have defended and voted on various occasions in favour of an independent Catalonia do not deserve or be listened to? The more they vote, the more elections, the more they reaffirm this result, the more they have to move from the threat to repression as it is going on? Is that his democratic sense and his proposal for Catalonia? For us, we say it and repeat it, dialog, dialog, dialog; dialog in and out. Dialeg does not mean fever, Dialeg does not mean resignation, on the part of anyone: Dialeg, negotiation and agreement is the best way to move forward. But to dialogue first you need to listen, and until now you don't want to or listen, when you regret that you feel each time stronger and stronger. We solemnly offer this will of dialogue to the State because it has to be, as it has been in most European countries of consolidated democracies, as the problems and ambitions of peoples and nations have been fixed. As a matter of fact, I'm going to refer to Val d'Aran now. Like Catalonia, from time immemorial, Aran struggles to suberviate as a country. It is aranesi surveillance every day was defense of his language, his culture and his institutions. Eth compromised deth Government of Catalonia will also be compromised was Val d'Aran, it was also preservation of his identity as a people, it was also impregnment of his self-government and he was also defense, in school and in his career, he gave his language, which I had official language in Catalonia. "Whoever has was a tongue, ten has been a claus. Ac didie eth Nobel occitan, Frederic Mistral. He will also defend conviction and work for such time as brotherly respect to the Council General of Aran. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no doubt that our country will be the country of the free, confident, sincere, responsible, and supportive citizens, where the light of culture and freedom lies. That is, a people conscious of their rights and their rights and able to defend them. We know very well that it is only moving forward, and we have prepared ourselves with all the necessary rigour, prudence and serenity. We are ready for the dialogue, and from the acceptance of the democratic mandate came out of the elections of 21st December. How do we not have to link the view of the people and democracy? What should a parliament tie, but this? There is no democratic alternative to democracy itself; the alternative to democracy is tyranny. Allow me now to address the citizen of Spain and all those citizens who have Spanish in their color, who do so in the language we share and believe, the language of Cervantes, Machado and so many, that we feel our own and that we will protect and age. Those who aspire to start a new page in the history of Catalonia do so without the slightest glimpse of going against anyone or anything; we simply aspire to the exercise of our full freedom and move us into an insatiable thirst for justice and peace. We have shared many things together, our lives are intertwined, we know very well how to distinguish the Spanish people from their current rulers. We know that many of you have understood that Catalonia is simply exercising democracy and that we aspire to the full recognition of our personality in order to put it at the service of a better world. You have seen a peaceful people who have fought with the ballot boxes as the only weapons. We could never have imagined so much repression as a response to the ballot box, how defenceless citizens were attacked on 1 October. We know that the Spanish people, that their people, are not responsible at all. We don't hold any grudges, we just feel infinite sadness. The future is ours, Catalans and Spaniards. We will be able to overcome any obstacles that may arise, I am convinced, because it unites us with the same desire: to live free and in peace. Dear friends and friends from outside Catalonia who are listening to us, I receive in my name the most sincere embrace of thousands and thousands of Catalans I have the honour to represent. It could not begin without this solemn reference also to the dialog in order to be able to carry out the results of the elections of 21 December. There are things, however, that cannot be expected, and which from the zero minute must be invested in strenuous efforts. It's time to approach, perhaps in a thick way, by time limitation – not by time of the Faristol, as the president said, but by time because a few hours ago we have to do a lot of kilometers because tomorrow morning we have an appointment that we already know where it is and I don't think I remember it – a plan of government that is designed and directed to serve better and help all Catalans and all Catalans. I repeat: the government that I preside if this chamber trusts me will act to serve, to act in favour of all Catalans, of all without exception. If you complete this investiture positively and I can form a government, I will get this same chamber to the government plan for this dozeny legislature, which I will now degranare them there. I would, however, like to put forward some things that are most important to me. We are prepared to build a better country, of the future, and thought for its citizens, for the 7_million_i_mig of citizens, for a single country, which will only advance if it unites. We know which Catalonia we want, because at the end there is a project, we have clear values that we want it to be impregnated and we are aware that the tools we need to build it..., which must be: the decision-making capacity, political power and regulation without shells, and the economic resources that we already generate like the country. The plan of this new government to be formed will set up around large interconnected axes. In the first place, democracy, which is the principle that permeates everything; democracy understood as the highest value that must govern the future of the country and the performance of institutions; democracy understood as the evidence that those who decide are the citizens. In this sense, the first of all will be the democratic restoration of institutions and end with 155. Second place, cohesiveness and social progress. We have to be a people's sun, where everyone has to have the same opportunities, where we have to make decisions in terms of fairness, where those who pay the most are the ones who have the most support, where social reversal has and means a reversal of the future. In the third place, economic prosperity. No creation of wealth a country is prone to impoverishment. We have and want to continue to cultivate a bright economy, not based on privileges and speculation, but on effort, entrepreneurship, innovation, work skills and talent, which is what the enterprises of this country do and what we want to do with more instruments, because if we collectively cultivate this growth, our economic potential, we can invest even more in the welfare state, that is, in cohesion and social progress. Fourth place, Catalunya to the world. We're a country that's always looked out for itself, with an open mindset, and that wants to keep doing it. We want to be present in favour of our economy, of our culture, and, ultimately, of the citizens' conjunction. So, we feel an active part of Europe, and from this historical, deep Europeanism, we want to transform it, too. Finally, in five places, a shared governance, which means more and better sovereignty and joint action with civil society, institutions and economic and social agents to define which country we want for our future; a shared governance that will inspire the entire governance program, as well as the defence of democracy. We want to build, in short, a country with human quality, sustainable and respect for future generations, and able to adapt to the challenges that have been generated. As I said, before anything else we propose to democratically restore Catalan institutions. It is urgent for the State to accept the mandate of 21 December; it is to say, rectify, repair, restore everything that has been removed without the permission of the Catalans after a few months where we have witnessed stupefies, such as European citizens who are, to the repression and detail of the fundamental rights in a general way against all kinds of people and collectivities: masters, directors, mayors, informatics, activists, journalists, students and, finally, comics and humorists. And all this bitter reality has come accompanied by a recent trend, by the intervention of the finances of the Generality and the municipalities, and by an indisguised will of the Catalan economy that goes from an unbearable fiscal drain to an inefficient management of infrastructure, an energy system harmful to competitiveness and irrational rigidity and bureaucracy against small and medium-sized enterprises. We will restore the legitimacy of the institutions and repair the damage caused to the citizenry in lands as sensitive as teaching, social entities and public communication media, which have been the subject of special attention in their impact on the 155. I am going to describe some of the policies and measures that, as I said, we would incorporate into this plan of government. The first is the axis of social cohesion. Catalonia's main activity is people: 7_million_i_mig citizens of different backgrounds and united by the will to build a country every day better. To make it possible to put in value the talent of each school. Here's the importance of education. We will defend the reinforcement of the Catalan school model as a palar palar de la cohesio social and as a vertebrator of an educational system of multilingual character. We therefore defend plurilingualism in the education system, understood as an integral treatment of languages from the centrality of the Catalan language and the guarantee of linguistic immersion, with the aim of enhancing linguistic skills, one of the keys of the educational axis that contributes to communication between people in a globalized world and that favors the integrated management of cultural diversity in the classrooms. The Catalan language is and must continue to be the first language of the school, the basis of the school culture and the vehicle in teaching and education. We have to work to ensure the education success of all the students, everything. And in this sense, for example, we will deploy the inclusive education decree or apply the Stemcat program, of impulses of scientific, technological, engineering and mathematical vocations, to promote an increase in interest for these students' studies from childhood education. We want fair and quality educational centres, and that is why we will progress in the autonomy of the centres and in the quality of educational projects, or we will increase the teaching capacity at the special education service centres in Catalonia, depending on the educational needs that arise in each socio-economic and cultural context. We also want an education system that responds to emerging challenges, and that is why we need to increase public funding for the education system and promote an initial training of teachers more linked to professional practice. Finally, it is necessary to enhance professional training by closely connecting the formatting cycles with the product and social fabric and with the university, updating the range of professional qualifications and establishing a coordinated system between the regulated FP and the occupational and continuing training to enhance learning in the wider life of all citizens. In this sense, we will create the public agency of professional training and qualification of Catalonia as the agency of direction and coordination of the basic services of the system, as established by Law 10/2015, of professional training and qualification, which approved this Parliament. We have a health model of success, quality, public, universal and equity, centered on the person, on his rights and dignity. The Catalan health system could be maintained in times of difficulties thanks to the effort of the professional collection, the fundamental value of the system. That's why we need to improve your working conditions, get your wages back and be able to retain your talent. And we also need to invest in healthcare technology and infrastructure, emergency services, ambulances, hospitals, etc. We will seek a new law of health, with the maximum political, social and economic consensus, which guarantees the sustainability and the betterment of the Catalan health system, with universal public coverage for everyone, which ensures funding and improves the working conditions of the professionals of the system. We will also give momentum to the Comprehensive Plate for the better of the health waiting lists to reduce the waiting time for diagnostics and treatment in Catalonia, with more involvement of health professionals in its management. The reduction of waiting time must be made primarily in accordance with procedures and techniques with reference and guarantee time, with territorial equity and are sensitive to the socioeconomic conditions of the patients. Social services must not give to a new social system, founded on the universal dignity of people and the overcoming of a policy of subsidies closer to one another and more prone to the idea of benefit in order to leave behind a policy of social investment, starting from the idea that social rights are at the same level as other universal rights, such as education, health and work. One of the priorities will be the guaranteed return of citizens, one of the social priorities of the later legislature. We will resolve the difficulties arising from the 155 intervention, make the regulatory deployment immediately and define a portfolio of services in integration and inclusive policies. We will place special emphasis on policies of gender and diversity of sexual orientation and gender identity, as well as in the struggle against male violence, since they are the foundations of building a more just and equal country for everyone. We want a new model of intervention in the field of sexual violence and some of you need and specific resources to address prevention, risk situations, emergency attention and follow-up on a new project of life of women and their child victims of gender-based violence. On the other hand, we will immediately deal with the rule on the sanctioning regime of Law 11/2014 to guarantee the rights of the LGTBI and increase the import of the penalties provided for. Thus, we must collectively conjure up the need for equality between men and women in the world of work and end up with unfair and unjustifiable wage, opportunity and promotion differences. Tanmateix, the guarantee of equal opportunities for all citizens also implies the assumption of the management of migration policies. To build an open society, we need foreign policies that are fair and inclusive and respect people's fundamental rights and rights, developed from the perspective of integration and social cohesion. We want to promote a country of accompaniment and inter-cultural interaction in order to deepen the construction of a cohesive and diverse people, who, taking advantage of the demographic transformation that has experienced in the past decades, bet for a real coexistence, for a society that allows everyone to have its own guarantees, a country that projects these values for their coexistence, but also in cooperation with the rest of the world. The right to housing and the social function of housing are the basic premise for articulating the country's housing policies. We must effectively recover the measures provided for in the housing legislation approved by the Parliament of Catalonia and which have been the subject of appeals by the Spanish Government. Already the advances that we will make a plan of success to increase the public park of habitats, that will include the acquisition of habitats that mediate the taneig and retraction, the financing of acquisitions, the maintenance of agreements with financial entities and the impulse of new work, all establishing the reference price of the loguer more the cost of the sub-administrations to the 30_percent of the average wage, in the same sense as the Law 24/2015. We will develop a national plan for housing 2016-2025 with the participation of other administrations, professional colleges and other economic and social agents to establish the guidelines and objectives of housing policies for our country. Finally, we will also allocate part of the tourist tax to deal with the effects of tourist accommodation on the gentrification of barrels or municipalities through housing policies. Culture is a motor of freedom because it allows us to build a city with critical, open, creative and solidary experience; ultimately, free. In this sense, it is worth emphasizing that culture is a real pillar of the welfare state and that, therefore, access to culture is essential to meet the need for social cohesion. In this sense, we commit ourselves to equalizing the presumption of culture during the legislature to which the most developed countries of our circle have at their disposal. Working for equal access and equity to culture, deploying the National Book and Reading Platform, the single library book project or the reactivation of the audiovisual digital channel will be some of the measures we will implement. On the other hand, before the historical mistreatment of culture, we will push and defend the establishment of a super-reduced cultural VAT, as provided for in the current text of the law. For what we do in sport, the model that we mark is the result of the consensus that emerged from a participatory and democratic process of the agents of the sector embodied in the National Pact of Physical Activity and Sport of Catalonia, which I had the honour to sign this July of 2017. Adopt a new law of physical activity and sport; a plan of promotion of physical activity and sport, with the creation of the sports reception; the combination of new funding sources and stable funding for the sport sector; the empowerment of women's sport and the design of programs for vulnerable collections, and the promotion of sports diplomacy will be some of the actions we last. The workers and workers of this country represent one of the foundational pillars of our society. The high priority must be the generation of quality employment in a continuous and stable way. We need a national pact with social and economic agents that allows us to evolve into a new model of production and labour relations of greater added value and more adapted to the globality of markets, with conditions of work similar to European countries, to guarantee workers the rights that protect the quality and stability of jobs. In this sense, we will work with social and economic agents to adopt a minimum wage, according to the standards of the European Social Charter, to reach 1,100_gross euros per month, thus advancing to a new status of work. We will prioritize active employment policies in the framework of the employment system and the Public Employment Service of Catalonia, the personalized and individualised orientation, the territorialization of policies by means of a concertation system and programmes contracts, the segmentation of mixed policies and programmes, in the framework of a system that allows the traceability and evaluation of developed policies. We will strengthen the right and due to the training of workers in their long working lives, especially in the face of the transformation of the labor market and digitalization. Thus, we will complete the deployment of guaranteed citizenship income, configured as a real active occupation policy, with the objective that its beneficiaries can overcome the conditions that they have had to need the benefit. As I said, the big second is economic prosperity. For what it does to fiscal policy and finance, it is worth recalling the fiscal deficit, the poverty of Catalonia, which is 16.570_million euros; a xifra that is catastrophic at the time of improving the public service of the citizens of Catalonia. Not to deal with this difficult problem means that all the remaining commitments that can be made are due to paper mullat. Fiscal sovereignty is key, therefore, to guarantee a future for our children, but we cannot simply replicate the existing model of the State Tax Administration. We need a new one that overcomes the clamorous deficiencies of the current Spanish state mark. We want a closer tax administration, which recognizes the taxpayer as its client, a fairer administration that effectively fights fraud and tax avoidance with a specific plan, a more efficient administration that can generate enough resources to promote all the policies that we have here. Immediately we have to recover the full functioning of the history of which we had before the application of 155, completing the deployment of the Tax Agency of Catalonia to the territory. With regard to support policies for industry and business, we will facilitate a competitive environment that boosts the growth of business activity. This environment will allow the increase of quality occupation and support and expansion of the welfare state. This objective is developed today on the basis of a solid Catalan economy, where data deny the manipulations interested during these months, which have taken place. The deployment of the National Pact for Industry is the main economic growth stake of this legislature. Derived from Resolution 251/XI of 2016, and presented to the government in July 2017, it is the most important programmatic agreement made in the past few years to boost Catalonia's industrial fabric and propagate the pes of our industry to 25_percent of GDP in the next five years. We will put the emphasis on transforming Catalonia's business and industrial model so that it can lead the fourth industrial revolution from the south of Europe. This revolution has different components that we need to know how to combine safely; the most known is that of digitalization, which is not merely incorporating digital technologies into industry, but simply rethinking industrial production in the light of the potentialities of these technologies. Now, there are other advanced technologies, such as biotechnology and nanotechnologies, which are also ingredients that offer great opportunities and we will not let go. On the other hand, we are also talking about the circular economy, which seeks maximum material efficiency, and which has no residue because it does not know them as such, because it sees them and treats them as unprofitable resources. Industry 4.0 and the circular economy have to go hand in hand, they have to converge until they are considered the same thing, the same repte, the same revolution: they are the backbones of Catalonia's industrial future. And, in parallel, as it could not be otherwise, we will continue to be referenced in the promotion of entrepreneurship and emerging enterprises, start-ups, especially technology-based ones, to facilitate the evolution of the product fabric to activities of high added value. We will bet through instruments to promote entrepreneurship and the role of generating the university system of enterprises derived from its leading-edge activities. Now, the industrial revolution is also for the product we have, for large companies, for small and medium-sized and for micro-enterprises. Its modernization is equally key, and here the effective transfer of knowledge and innovation in situ are aspects that require intensive reinforcement. The fourth industrial revolution must serve us to have a more sustainable economy, more efficient in the use of resources and more innovative energy, more creative, more competitive and at the same time, thanks to this, more global. Our market is the world, and we must help our companies to explore it, to negotiate it, to diversify territorially, to avoid being captivated by the external market which, for its own sake, will condition our economy with its decisions. For what it does to energy, it has to promote a change in the regulatory framework to ensure democratic control of energy and define access to it as a fundamental right to mitigate the development of the National Energy Transition Pact, according to the Government Agreement of 15 April 2014. Without denying the prosperity that fossil fuels have brought us, we must assume that we cannot sustain this energetic model in the future without seriously putting this very prosperity at risk. We consume so much energy that the harmful effects of these fuels multiply to such an extent that they become a threat to our future. The climate change is the most disturbing, but we cannot ignore the degradation of atmospheric quality and the majority of large cities and the high risk of contamination in March, rivers and aquifers that involve its extraction, storage and distribution. We need an energy transition towards renewable energies, which is neither quick nor difficult, but which must already be understood with the clear and determined involvement of public administrations. In the last two legislatures it has been worked, in this strategy of energy transition, and in the next we have to put ourselves to materialize it, with the will that the year 2050 all the electricity generated in Catalonia comes from renewable sources. In the case of Catalonia, the current energy model has two added difficulties: in the first place, as is known, we do not have deposits of oil or natural gas, beyond the anecdote. This generates a large external energy dependence, which is likely to suffer from geopolitical crises and market decisions by exporting countries. We can't build our future on this instability. The second difficulty, much linked to this last one, is that the energy market has too few actors and the prices are not competitive people, so that our companies find themselves with an additional income at the time of winning foreign markets. And, without thinking only about the economy, this situation also makes the energy bill too much – and too much – for many vulnerable families. There is no country without affordable energy. In the wake of sustainability, only renewable energies can guarantee this. Therefore, a transition towards them, a progressive transition, guided, consensual, but decided, started immediately, because we would triage decades to make it happen. It is clear, therefore, that energy and climate policy must be based on a political philosophy, an economic design and a governance common to them. This global demand to fight climate change and to protect the environment obliges us to defend and implement the Climate Change Law approved for this Parliament, and the pioneering example of a government in southern Europe, the elaboration of the National Water Pact that defines a new water planning and management, and the elaboration of a national pact for energy transition. Catalonia's tourism model has to count on a policy of shared objectives for a broad social and business consensus, which projects the country not only as a European referent, but worldwide, prioritizing quality, innovation and excellence as the basic pillars of the sector. The tourism sector needs to develop from an integrated perspective, with a view to environmental, economic, social and cultural sustainability. In this sense, we propose to consolidate the tourist model of Catalonia as a referent of tourist destination of quality and sustainable. Trade is one of the engines of our economy, too, which occupies more than half a million people and is based on a model of commercial fabric of proximity, modern, competitive, differential and adapted to our reptes. In this sense, we will continue to defend our model firmly. We bet on a dynamic model, ahead of the city's consumption changes, where the use of the internet or mobile phone fan of digital transformation an inescapable appointment for the trade. A catal model that bets for proximity, for commercial wealth, from the singularity that defends a commercial mosaic of high interest, overcoming the challenge of excessive commercial concentration, territorial desertion; a model that must be sustainable and therefore must minimize environmental and mobility externalities. Catalonia's university research system has reached internationally recognized levels of excellence in recent years, which configure Catalonia as a key point of knowledge and higher education in southern Europe. It is now necessary to agree on the future of the Catalan university by means of the National Pact for Universities and the legislation to be adopted, in order to ensure the transformation into an even more efficient model, based on the modernization of structures, technical and economic viability, internationalization and transfer of knowledge. It is necessary to advance in a system of ordinary tuition fees with deductions for family income, academic performance and place of residence, as well as the better coverage and quantity of scholarships by means of a progressive system. On the other hand, we will promote policies for the promotion and consolidation of teaching and research staff. Universities, R+D+I centres and other public and private entities are the main sources of new knowledge that can be promoted to diversify and strengthen the country's economy. These entities must continue to act synergistically, promoting collaboration with the product fabric and making the country a leader in Europe of knowledge. In this sense, we must settle down, in the measure of the circumstances that allow it, a financing adjunct to the strategic consideration of R+D+I for Catalonia, and in the line of the most advanced countries. Thus, we will draw up a law on the search and innovation system, with a comprehensive and country-based visit that I introduced better ones that guarantee the sustainability of the system, remove bureaucratic obstacles and promote the incorporation of new resources. The primary sector – agriculture, industry and fisheries – forms part of the appropriate Catalan production model, and can protect it and promote its development. We need to focus our efforts on improving the competitiveness of agricultural, fisheries and forestry farms, as well as food businesses, inspiring us in the models of other countries in central and northern Europe with similar dimensions and characteristics. Powering the consumption of local and zero-kilometer products, real players in the maintenance and sustainability of the territory, we will push forward the Bioeconomy Pact, which promotes an efficient use of all natural resources, while applying innovation and technology to promote comprehensive management and better territorial development, as well as a law of agricultural space that encourages the primary sector to preserve high agricultural value spaces, avoid abandonment and loss of fertile land, and promote professional farms and the incorporation of young people into the sector. We will rethink the cities as a key to social cohesion, intelligence and sustainability, following the orientations of the United Nations. The Catalan government decided to boost the urban agency of Catalonia, which has to see the light in this next legislature. We do not intend to make a rhetorical document, but to address a transcendental question, which we could mean in the fact that the urban life style has been generalized. Although our whole territory is not a city, the expectations of well-being, of services and of opportunities are almost always similar to those of the urban world, and on a global scale the major conurbations are the most dynamic areas, both from the economic and social point of view, and the great laboratories of planetary transformation into aspects as crucial as social cohesion, cultural creativity, economic entrepreneurship, transition, sustainability and policies of equality and political innovation, among others. We must, therefore, give renewed attention to the urban phenomenon and, working closely with the assemblies, and especially with those in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, we must put our potential into value in this sense, since for many years the Catalan cities have made a bet for the intelligent and sustainable cities, which must be two with the same coin. We will gather the local initiatives and complement them with the most general framework given by the SmartCAT strategy and the policies of sustainability of the Government, in order to inflate the urban agenda of Catalonia with new ideas, and, at the same time, with effective measures that allow us to take advantage of all the opportunities that we are given and will be given by the world of the great cities to which we advance. And we will age because these opportunities are well distributed, both to access it and to benefit from it. The Catalonia of the 21st century must continue to integrate the principles of sustainability into planning and management of mobility, which implies a determined stake for public transport and for the least polluting means of transport, and contribute to the competitiveness and vertebration of the territory. To ensure social and territorial cohesion in Catalonia, the implementation of T-Mobility will be encouraged, which allows you to travel throughout Catalonia with a single title, regardless of the means of transport or from which you manage it. Thus, we will implement a new model for financing high-speed lives that allows to raise toll barriers, finance the better of existing infrastructures and invest in the better of public transport. We need direct management of ports, airports and railway networks, to abandon the centralized and obsolete model of the Spanish Administration and to bet on a modern individualized management system that connects Catalonia with Europe and the world. We will recover and promote the Catalan agenda of the Mediterranean Corridor, a consensus document between the political, economic and social agents of Catalonia, we will improve the road network and match ports and airports with access and resources. On the other hand, we will recover Aigues Ter Llobregat for public, transparent, participatory and democratic management. The third, as I said, is democracy. The general principle to implement all government action is democracy. And in this sense I want to start with one of the most innovative and emblematic projects of this new government: we want to make the digital Catalonia of the 21st century, which takes away the analogue and bureaucratic state of the past century. In this sense, we will drive a digitally-owned Catalan digital citizenry, through a self-managed digital identity that connects government and citizens, abandoning the old concept of the "state of society" to move on to "the state of us, the citizens. In the digital Catalonia of the 21st century the Administration has to manage and lead the technological transition of public administrations, in the mark of the National Pact for the digital society. That is why we believe the time has come for the Government of Catalonia to have a solid governance in digital politics. In the field of public administration, first of all, I would like to thank very sincerely all the public workers of the Generality for the immense effort they have carried out during these months of application of Article 155, a period that has not been, in any way, easy for all public servants; if the damage has not been greater, it has been thanks to their efforts. We want to develop a public administration that is more efficient, simple, agile and useful, to the service of people, entities and businesses, that is innovative and adapted to the changes of society and to the demands of citizens. We will work to simplify and improve the accessibility of the citizens' relationship, entities and businesses with the Administration. We will also push the territorial offices of attention to the city of the Generalitat to the different Catalan demarcations, as they already hold in Girona and the Lands of the Ebre. We will approve a public occupation offer that allows you to overcome the natural enveloping of our Administration and ensure generational replenishment and talent capture. And we will create the new national school of government and public administration in Catalonia, which will become the school of all Catalan public institutions and administrations and of the public sector for which it does training, talent acquisition and knowledge generation. Thus, we must advance towards an open governance system that integrates transparency policies, open data and citizen participation. We want a form of political action in which transparency, accountability and the empowerment of the citizenry or the open government are irrefutable premises. We want a co-responsible citizenry, with rights and dues, that becomes an actor in spectator accounts. In this sense, it will be necessary to ensure the development of the law's rules of transparency, access to public information and good governance, so to remind you, one of the most advanced laws in this matter. We have the will to increase control in public procurement and to boost the ethical busts and establish the mechanisms for the protection of alerters. At the same time, it seems to us that there is a need to eliminate pardons and encourage the elimination of pardons in cases of corruption. So, we'll call the Catalan Mechanism of Fighting Corruption and Frau and have regulation, structure and periodicity. We will also provide more material, operational and technical resources for the administration of justice and specific units of the Squadron Mosses. Catalan communication means conform to a communication space that articulates society and guarantees the rigour and plurality and neutrality of the Catalan media map. For this reason, its defence and protection is essential. The Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation has a very important specific fish in the offering of communication media, and it is also a source of Catalan audiovisual industry. Public communication media must always complement their vocation as a public service, offering a plural, quality, in catalá, offering information, culture, entertainment and education as the main axes. In addition to the vocation of quality public service, the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation has to strive for the promotion of knowledge and the dissemination of Catalan language and culture, as well as being the engine of our country's audiovisual industry, a consolidated, competitive and diversified product fabric. The Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation must continue to guarantee this model of quality public service and respond to the new trends in the audiovisual sector creating top-level content, developed from own production or in collaboration with other sectors of the audiovisual industry. It is obvious that there is a strategy to irremovably weaken the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation until it is left in a marginal situation. This strategy has two potentials: on one side, its contempt, and on the other, its economic offensive. In this sense, I want to state that collectively we will not allow it, and concretely already the advances that we will propose the appropriate budgetary endowment to guarantee a quality service and leadership vocation and that it can face the imposed difficulties, such as the retroactive million-dollar claim of VAT by the Spanish Ministry of Heritage, measures defended and guaranteed from today and more than ever. And that's why we also defended the National Audiovisual Pact. In short, we want to guarantee the necessary media so that the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation can carry out the mission entrusted to it by the law, because the Catalan public media can follow with quality media, leaders and referents for the people of this country. The right, justice and courts must be the guarantee of protection of fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, manifestation and security in communications, but also of legal certainty in the field of business and commercial relations. Catalonia must work for a scrupulous separation of powers, for democracy and respect for rights and fundamental freedoms, with a system of independent, agile, truthful and reliable administration of justice, as it corresponds to a society of the 21st century. We will develop the global electronic function of the Justice Administration to achieve a fast, effective and efficient justice that optimizes human and material resources. And we will make a country agreement for the normalization of the catalá to justice and in all areas of justice. The challenges facing Catalonia in the deep context of social, political and economic changes, both in its immediate presence and in its future, call for an update of the public security system, which prioritizes the regulation of the security features that coexist in Catalonia and better connectivity with the forces and objects of emergencies. One of the clearest effects of the 155_application was in the field of security and, in concrete terms, in the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. In this sense, it is essential to reverse this damage immediately and return to normality the exercise of the responsibilities of the Squadre Mosso Cos and defend the honorability of all its members and commands. We're gonna get the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Thus, in the face of security challenges that require maximum cooperation, coordination and cooperation, the Squadre Mosso Cos that has a permanent presence in those international police coordination bodies, a need that years ago should have been produced and that the Spanish State has been systematically obstructing. In the same way, we want to invest in equipping the Squadre Mosso Cos with the human resources, format and technology needed to meet with guarantees the security challenges of Catalonia, as well as those who plant the new forms of crime. Thus, we must maintain and deepen in the fight against terrorism, in the framework of a cross-cutting and integral strategy of security, which does not only involve the police sphere of the terrorist fact, but also addresses the prevention of radicalisation processes, with a complex phenomenon that deals with different spheres of society. Finally, we are promoting a new model of firefighters that renews the current one, with the aim of adapting it to the needs and realities of the 21st century, ensuring effective territorial coverage, driving the necessary incorporation of human and material effects, reviewing how and what support is available to the municipalities in the emergencies and incorporating the current technology to improve the response and gain efficiency. Catalonia in the world, the fourth axis of action. In the economic field, and for what it does to internationalization, we would help companies that start exporting with support programs from Action and Prodeca when it is heading to us markets or to disseminate success stories. We will intensify and strengthen the prospecting and proactive search teams of opportunities for external and Action offices, such as the Catalan agency of internationalization. We will create the foreign investment register in Catalonia and the Catalan foreign investment register in order to have statistical and economic information to enhance the activities of promotion and follow-up of the internationalization of the economy. We will enable a digital residence program for businesses, creating the e-residence certificate. We will enhance Action in its management role, identification and proposal to overcome administrative barriers or institutions to investment, so as to reduce the terms in the formalization of an investment. Or we will continue to be actively involved in the deployment of the Europe 2020 and RIS3CAT strategy, supporting the development of technology-based business projects that facilitate the evolution and transformation of Catalonia's industrial sector. Thus, we will promote an internationalization of the agri-food sector through Prodeca. At the cultural level, we will consolidate the Ramon Llull Institute as the foundational instrument for the external projection of Catalan language and culture, starting with the implementation of the Palma Declaration of 2017, for which the Institute has to project the Catalan culture of the Catalan language. We will expand its objectives and fields of action in the external promotion of language, literature and thinking in Catalan language, to consolidate it as the ninth language of Europe. And we will promote cultural inter-canvas with the outside to project our culture to the world, extending the presence of Catalan culture to the different international festivals and events. And to finish this aside, the last is, but I have informed him of all the explanation of the government program, there is this five is, as I say, that of shared governance, which will affect all the political action and decision-making that this government will bring to an end. I'm done. This legislature does not have the duty to have frustrated the very serious threats that have so far been posed to us. We have won the ballot box – at the ballot box – as always, at the ballot box. And now we have to match them and be worthy, do it right, don't do it to look good. We'll make ourselves worthy of the freedom we've won and smile. They are, because we have a clear future ahead of us, because freedom, as Albert Camus said, "is nothing but an opportunity to be better. These last few months and weeks we have seen the most elementary human rights tested, imposing many exorbitant, retaliated, detained, innocent citizens..., attacks on schools, which are always temples of citizenship, poverty and civilization. But we have seen as well as that which gives us the benevolent Muriel Couples, which today, as today, I want to quote and remember..., "the riella is the most effective of our responses to all attacks, provocations and fewer rejections. [[Greetings.]] I want to finish... [[applause persists]] I want to end as I did at the beginning, and send a message of tranquillity, of confidence, of security to the whole country. With the victories coming, and ours, you know, it's huge. We've prepared for this moment. Responsibility and trust. We need everyone. We need all of us to make a better country for all of us. We can continue to work together even harder from today. As my speech began, I made a cry and a compromise of my own. For us, there will be no more extended – there will be no more extended – if there is the slightest response and hope of restoring the extended hand of the head of the State or of the Government of Spain. The essence of democracy and respect for the will of Catalans expressed in the ballot boxes is at stake. Benvolgugus deputies, benvolgugus deputies, everyone has a duty to work for the country. This is the compromise of the hour that has touched our lives; a hard hour, but a hopeful hour. You are asked that the complimen, which we are still worthy of the present moment, that we demand of ourselves that we only ask of ourselves. You know that everything that we're doing, everything that's going to be around us, we don't... we don't have to wait for it from anyone else's grant that's not ours. We follow all the loyal things that Catalonia asks of us, and then you have the certainty that we will overcome all the difficulties, however great they are. We have your confidence, Members of Parliament. Today we can defuse, from the outset, the clusters of Article 155 and open our future, a clear, clear and bright future. If this chamber trusts me I will work without rest for such real work 7_million_i_mig of Catalans, together, do well and, therefore, sure, that we can make it possible. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.11.0	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Turull. Once the candidate's intervention is over, we suspend this Ple for half an hour, thirty minutes, so up to two-quarters and five-quarters of a set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.12.0	MPs, MPs... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please. It's part of the session. In accordance with Rule 149 of the Rules of Procedure, after the candidate's intervention, one representative spoke, you know, of each parliamentary group for thirty minutes, for each of the groups. In the case of the Mixt Group, as you also know, it divides the time into fifteen minutes for each subgroup. The candidate can use the word as many times as I ask, without time limitation. And when the candidate responds individually to one of the Members who has spoken, the candidate will have a straight line of time equal to the one purchased for the candidate. And in the event that you have responded to the replies, which I also repeat, will be without time limitation on the part of the candidate, the group may have a counter-replication of five minutes. After that, there will be the vote, the vote for the investiture of the President of the Government of Catalonia. It will be published, by appeal, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. Therefore, in the first place, it is the return for Mrs Inés Arrimadas, president of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.13.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not facing a full investiture, and not because it is likely to result in a failed investiture, because Mr Turull, the candidate, did not have the majority support of the Chamber, but because we did not come here to hold an investiture debate. Today we are not here to discuss the proposal of a possible president to the Generalitat de Catalunya. Today we are here with an emergency call, with a candidate with a serious judicial situation, simply to have one more chapter of this novel which is the process, which you have been writing for so many years. And I say this clearly, because if Mr Turull did not have the complicated judicial situation he has, he would not be a candidate, and if Mr Turull did not have an important appointment with justice tomorrow, we would not be here today. You are adapting your policy to the judicial situation that you yourself have created – which you yourselves have created – and provoked. And I believe that, Mr Turull, you know better than anyone that you are not here to be president, that you have not been proposed to be president, that no one in your group pretends to be president. Today we are in a more... chapter, like that of Mr.Sànchez, which lasted a few days, I do not know if yours will last even less than Mr.Sànchez's chapter, it may be that the Turull chapter of this very long fiction novel, then, is short; but of course today we are not here for you to be president. And it is not a problem, as can happen in other cases, in other chambers, in which the candidate presents himself and does not have the confidence of the chamber, no: it is that you are not here to be president. And you know it. And I think you just have to listen even if it's a short part of your speech to know that you weren't here today to be President of the Generalitat. In fact, I want to refer to some of the parts of your speech, because you have implied – you have implied – that you are in a serious judicial situation for what you think, for your ideas, for defending what you stand for. No, Mr Turull: you have been living on politics for decades and being an independentist and you have not gotten into a problem until you declared independence and made an illegal referendum with public money. It is not their ideas, the ones that have led them to this situation. In fact, there are many politicians who are in the same ideological line, but they are not in their judicial situation. It is not his ideas, the ones that have led him to this situation: it has been his acts, the ones he has done in recent years. Because, I insist, you have a long history not of years, but of decades of politics and never, as I know, have renounced your ideals and renounced and said that you are not an independentist person. You cannot be part of the solution we need in Catalonia, because you are part of the problem, because you have brought us here, because you have been one of those who led the boat to bring Catalonia up to this situation, you were the spokesman of the government of institutional shock, the spokesman of the separatist government. And you are here, among other things, because you have provoked, along with other people, this institutional shock that leads us nowhere. And, moreover, I insist, it is not due to our vote against, that I think it is not necessary or necessary to say it, that it will be the one we are going to celebrate today, the one we are going to defend..., it is not an ideological difference. This is not a normal investiture session in an autonomous parliament in which there may be political discrepancies, in which we cannot agree, in which you are not the candidate who has the support of our parliamentary group on economic or ideological issues. It's just that this situation is not normal in Catalonia. This situation of fracture in Parliament, which is a transfer, a reflection of what social fracture is, is not a normal situation. It's an exceptional situation. That is why our 'no' vote against your candidacy is an exceptional vote too. Because it's not just that we haven't reached a government agreement, it's not just that we have different ideas to do one project or another for Catalonia. It's just that you guys have moved out of the democratic field. You are not playing in the democratic field, in which politicians comply with the laws, in which parliamentary procedures are carried out, in which all Catalans are respected, think as you think. You guys are out. And I'm saying it because if there's a pact party and a settlement party, that's Citizens. And, in fact, we have been highly criticized in other autonomous communities. In fact, you, and I remember precisely Mr Turull, who criticized us: "How can you reach agreements with the Socialist Party in one place, with the People's Party in another? Now they've made a small deal on an electoral law in Murcia with Podemos. Yeah, yeah, that's Citizens. That party of the pact, of the agreement, of the consensus, that party is Citizens. You have broken every possibility of a pact, of agreement, of consensus in the Catalan Parliament because you have broken it in Catalan society. Of your speech, then, there is little to comment on, but I would sum it up in one sentence: you have been able to disappoint everyone. And it's hard to disappoint everyone when you make a political speech; always, yours, more or less... But you've been able to disappoint them, I sincerely believe, than everyone else. Because neither has he accepted reality, nor has he come with the courage to recognize the truth that all this has been a farce, that neither you believe it, that there is no republic, that there is no independence, that there is no international recognition, that there is no happy archadia of independent Catalonia. Neither has it come with courage, which I believe should have you, or someone from your party, or from your independence parties sooner or later, better early than late..., nor has it come to say what I am sure many people to whom you have deluded for years with independence wanted to listen. Neither independence, nor republic, nor as I have ever heard at the feasts of Grace: «The next feasts of Grace, next year, we are independent. Nothing at all. But neither have you come here to defend that you are going to respect legality, that you are going to respect the democratic playing field, that you recognize your mistake, that you recognize that this is a great farce. I mean, he's disappointed everyone. And I honestly believe that the first one who didn't believe your speech, the first one who wasn't very satisfied or very happy with your own speech, I think it was yourself – yourself. Because at one point you have asked for the confidence of the camera, I believe that in the first place you should have asked yourself, because few speeches I have seen as unconvincing as the one you have just made – you – in the Faristol. And another thing that has drawn me very much the attention of his speech is that call to concord, unpublished in his person. An appeal to internal agreement, to those Catalans, to that social majority of parties..., of people who have not voted for independence parties, after they have called us subjects, after the spokesman for the separatist government has called us subjects, now comes suddenly with an appeal to agreement. You are not credible to appeal to the agreement in Catalonia because you have disrespected and even denied the existence of the social majority who did not want to vote for independence options. Because you have addressed endless times – infinite times – to the people of Catalonia speaking only of a part of Catalan society. And I think even more surprising, that appeal, that love suddenly to the rest of the Spaniards. I was surprised because you are the ideologist of slogans and posters like this: « Subsidized Spain lives at the cost of productive Catalonia. That's yours. Look, you also defended him at the press conference, he was very proud of you in the photos, by the way, on August 27, 2013. From that press conference of Mr. Turull, from that wonderful slogan that was invented, they pulled out an electoral campaign. You're the ideologist of things like this. You don't erase these things in a written speech, I guess I don't know if checked by a few people... to try to appeal to what? Those who break up together cannot guarantee union. Those who make companies leave cannot guarantee that they return to Catalonia. Those who have broken bridges with the rest of Spain cannot appeal to union and agreement with the rest of Spain. You are not credible, Mr. Puigdemont, nor for those who want independence... [[remorse of the voice]] Oh, Mr. Turull. More or less... – I will now talk about the coincidences of your speech with that of Mr Puigdemont. You are not credible, Mr Turull, nor for those who want independence, who I think expected something else from you today, nor for those who really want coexistence in Catalonia, nor for those who want us to pass this insufferable stage of the process and return to institutional normality. You have not been credible to anyone – to anyone. And I think you have repeated many things from Mr Puigdemont's speech. In fact, I was commenting on it now, because yesterday I reread..., I had that energy yesterday to reread Mr Puigdemont's investiture speech, and it turns out that a lot of the things you announced today in that little credible, unconvincing investiture speech, it turns out they are based on what Mr Puigdemont and, previously, Mr Mas said. I only tell you that you have ruled – you have ruled – in these two years, and since 2010 you have been ruling, and you are not credible when you call for public administration reform, when you call for infrastructure improvement, when you call for fighting corruption. They're not credible, Mr. Turull. They're not credible. And do you know why you are not credible? Because you have had the opportunity to rule for all Catalans and have not. You have been able to do what you want, in fact, you have even committed illegalities. They could have ruled by implementing those measures that Mr Mas announced years ago, and they have not carried them out. You have not come here today either to stop the process and start normal. Because then his speech would have been different. And it's also that I'm convinced: you don't want 155 to end and you have to start ruling in Catalonia. They don't want to. Because if you wanted to, you'd come here, you'd recognize the mistakes, you'd say they're going to comply with the laws, and you'd put a candidate who doesn't have to go to the judge tomorrow and who has serious court cases. If you wanted that, your strategy would be different. You want to prolong the process, the mess, the confrontation. And you know why? Because reality is very hard and you don't want to manage the reality of Catalonia. Do you want to manage the situation of more than 160,000 people who are awaiting an operation in public health? I don't think so. Do you really want to face the worst lists of dependency in all of Spain? That there are people who have to wait four years for a place of residence. Many die before they can have help, many die before they can have a place of dependence. And the situation is dramatic throughout Spain, it is true, but where worse, here in Catalonia. You do not want to have to face the problems that exist in education, the autonomous community with the worst situation of barracks, with twenty-thousand children studying in barracks in public school. They have no interest, none. Or other data to be managed. In education there are other problems, such as that Catalonia is the autonomous community where the income of the parents most influences the outcome of the children. You don't care about that situation, you guys. It's much better to say that it's Spain's fault, where it's going to stop. Do you now have to manage how to get those 3,500 companies back to Catalonia? You who have thrown them out, how are you going to get them back? Do you really want to come here to explain the shame of ATLL? Do you really want to come here and explain what happened with ATLL's contract? – your responsibility, not Spain's, not yours. They don't want to. Do you want to talk about why metro line 9 should have ended ten years ago and do not know when it will end, whether it will end, or how much it will ultimately cost the Catalans? You don't want to. Do you want to go and negotiate improvements in reforms throughout Spain, such as the financing system? You? Are you going to be our interlocutor with the rest of Spain to negotiate something good for the Catalans, those who say they were leaving, those who say that at the next year's Gracia festivities we will already be independent? Do you really want to go and negotiate? They don't want and can't, and that's why they don't want to end the process. They want to extend it, because what awaits after the process is the reality: the reality of Catalans, the reality of Catalan workers, the reality of Catalan families..., and that you do not care about, because you will stop having the fantastic excuse that the fault of everything is the whole of Spain. Some of the measures you have said, most of them, have been in a drawer for years. And you have been ruling, Mr Turull, for years, with a high margin of manoeuvre, with an autonomous community with a great deal of self-government. It's true that you can't do everything here, but you can do a lot of things. And you didn't want to. We already know the fruits of your Government. Those who have broken the coexistence cannot resew it; those who have made companies go away cannot make them come back; those who have broken the bridges with the rest of Spain cannot rebuild them. It's common sense. And they don't want the 155 to end, because that's why you'd have to tell the truth and start obeying the laws, which they have a special shot at. In addition, I would like to recall Mr Tardà's words in 2012: "Ens anria de conya, the 155. No, you can see that... it seems like you're doing well, because you want to extend it. They don't want to rule, they want to elongate – elongate – chaos. Because, out of chaos, you have nothing. A draft consensus in which we feel we are debating, in which we pass laws, in which we adopt... You have nothing of that kind to offer Catalans. And it is, as I say, the process, a novel. And it's a long novel, because you've been here for years. It's a face novel, because it's costing us a lot of money. It's a fiction novel, because it's all a lie, because you don't believe it either. And, honestly, I think, in that novel, the Turull chapter is going to be a short chapter. But that novel will sooner or later be over, because Catalans deserve to be able to discuss peacefully and calmly with other friends and neighbors, and not have a social problem because of this politics. Catalans deserve peace of mind; put on television and that we are talking about employment, health, education; let us agree on a law, on a budget. That is a right that Catalans have; a right to hear solutions and not problems from politicians and Parliament. Here we should be discussing solutions; each with its own ideology, each with its own point of view, but reaching agreements, as is done in many other autonomous chambers or in the Chamber of Congress of Deputies. But you here have broken in half the camera, because you have broken in half the society. And the citizens put on television and their government have not seen, in recent years, solutions, consensus, dialogue, truth; they have seen a farce, they have seen lies, they have obviously seen confrontation, they have seen problems. That's it! You represent uncertainty. You represent concern. You represent conflict. You guys represent problems for people. And people already have enough problems so that politicians are adding problems to citizens. And, besides, I say to you, can you say something positive about the process of all these years – anything? One? – for Catalans? Could we say something that you have brought, well, in these years of process? I believe it has been harmful to society, to the economy and to the Catalan institutions. And we're probably going to take a long time to reverse your mistakes. The only thing we ask you to do is stop repeating the mistakes. Again we are here, in a full investiture, pending an assembly of the UPC, pending an assembly of a party, so... respectable, eh? , but anti-system, of the CUP: let's see what they vote for; let's see if they tie; advance the investiture because tomorrow you have an appointment with the judge, and they've advanced everything for you to come here because you're in legal trouble. That's it! Let's learn from the mistakes. Learn, you, from mistakes. Because the bad thing is that the consequences are not only paid by you – who are paid by all Catalans. All Catalans pay the consequences of this process: independenceists and non-independenceists, which we have much more in common than you do, because the lists of dependence, I insist, are not different for independenceists and non-independenceists. The list of unemployment is no different for the independenceists and the non-independenceists. The cuts that you had to do savagely while feeding state structures... have been paid by all Catalans, independenceists and non-independenceists. On top of that, the independenceists, who believed that this was going to be an independent republic, on top of that, have been lied to. We were insulted and they were lied to. I have told you many times: they have divided Catalan society into two and have defrauded, lied, insulted both halves. It is very difficult what you have done! And we can't keep an eye on, in Catalonia, an assembly of the CUP, the last occurrence of Puigdemont, whether they call us at ten o'clock in the night to make a full of a non-candidate to be non-president – because that's what you're here for today. We need a future project for all Catalans. And there is room for consensus in Catalan society and in this Parliament to have a future project, but we need to start talking about what we can share, what unites us. A plan to prioritize social policies. Can we not really agree to prioritise resources and measures to improve health waiting lists, as, for example, the last legislature, Citizens, presented a proposal? Dependent? Can't we agree on that? Is it not much easier to talk about how we put in place an urgent plan for the return of businesses, with measures for fiscal competitiveness, for the elimination of bureaucracy, for legal certainty? Is it really not better to talk to us about these things that may have scope for consensus? Why don't we talk about how to make Catalonia a fiscally competitive land and stop suffocating the working middle class, which is the one that pays the most taxes from all over Spain, thanks to its fiscal policy, to the capacity that the Generalitat has? Why don't we talk about a plan to fight corruption, Mr. Puj... Mr. Turull? [[Rialles.]] Because... of course, I've been confused, because I remember the photo of you accompanying Mr. Oriol Pujol to the courts, and, of course, I understand that, in your speech, a lot, of corruption, you haven't spoken. You're more about Spain's spolio, aren't you? , the so-called spolius... this has been a spolius! This family, and these cases of corruption, and these 3_per_cent, and these ITVs, have indeed been a spolius – they have been a spolius. [[Greetings.]] Why don't we talk about infrastructure that needs to be prioritized? Line 9 of the metro, the Segarra-Garrigues Canal..., the Mediterranean Corridor, which I would like to remind you that it serves to better connect Catalonia with the rest of Spain and with the rest of Europe, which is just the opposite of what you intended to do, which is to separate us and disconnect us. This is the future project that Catalonia needs: in which there can be consensus, in which you can break this dividing line by the half that you have generated. But you don't care about that, you don't care about it; you don't care about it, because you could have done it. They've ruled and they haven't. You, I insist, believed that this situation could be maintained forever. You believed that you were the owners of the watch of Catalonia; you believed that the Parliament was your court, to do and undo, out of legality, what you wanted. And that's not true, Mr. Turull. Catalonia is a diverse land, dynamic economically, strong, but it no longer endures years of process, of this novel of fiction, which, I insist, you do not believe. And I believe that the first vision..., or the first doubt that cleared up – at this end already of the novel, because to the novel I think it has little left – was the victory of Citizens in the elections. From here on, his story died. That of the social majority, that of everyone here wanting a referendum of independence, that Catalonia is a spoiled land and that we are a colony, that broke. And in the rest of Europe, honestly, they don't listen to them. No one buys them, Mr Turull, that you are a persecuted politician, not a political prisoner, nor that Mr Puigdemont is exiled. No one – no one. You have sold..., and you have spent a lot of money and effort on Mr. Romeva and yours, but it has gone very badly. Can we stop making the same mistakes and start really managing the reality of Catalans? Wouldn't that be much smarter? Wouldn't that be much fairer, Mr. Turull? Would it not be much more useful to start managing the real problems of Catalans, where we can build new bridges of consensus between us and bridges of agreement with the rest of Spain? But, I insist, you are not going to be able to do that exercise, because you have burned all the ships. Where you have put fiction, others will have to put realism. Where you have put chaos, others will have to put calm. Where you have affected the external image of Catalonia, we will have to make an effort to raise the name of Catalonia again in the rest of the world. Where you have clinged to a fictitious past, we will have to start thinking about the future. Where you have focused on the division in Catalonia, we will ensure coexistence. And where you have broken – you have wanted to break – with the rest of Spain, we are going to have the bridges rebuilt, because Catalonia has to remain a great engine of the whole of Spain. And that is a project that is not within your reach; that is not within your reach, because the writers of this long, face, fictional novel, with sometimes somewhat absurd and short chapters, cannot write a novel for all Catalans, cannot leave the freedom for Catalans to decide a future for all. You cannot, I insist, fix what you yourselves have spoiled. You can't come here as part of the solution, because you're part of the problem. And the first one who knows that you are not going to be president and that this is not an investiture session is yourself. All I ask of you, Mr. Turull, is that you no longer extend this novel. Don't stretch it any longer. Catalans don't deserve to waste more time, more money, more opportunities, more friends along the way. Because there is a lot of future ahead and because Catalonia is going to rise again, I am convinced, despite you. Despite you, your efforts, despite everything you've done, everything you've broken, despite everything you've ruined, Catalonia is going to rise again. And I say to him: all his efforts to break Spain and dismember Spain have generated the opposite effect. And Spain is a great country, which I believe that affronts and challenges like this once again serve it to have an exciting project, to raise us again among all and to have a great project of leadership, not only among the countries of our environment, not, not, of European leadership. And I also say: your efforts to show in Europe that Spain stifles Catalonia, and that we are a colony, and that Spain is not a democratic country, are failed because no one buys the speech from you. Therefore, if it has not served them to gain independence, but quite the contrary; if it has not served them to break Spain, but perhaps to raise a feeling of civil patriotism and pride, of belonging to a great country of the European Union, and if it has not served them to show in the European Union that you are martyrs, I ask you: what has all this done, Mr Turull? What for? Do we have to keep wasting more time with this or do you have the courage – which you can have today, before you go to the judge tomorrow – the political and personal courage to recognize that this was a lie that you have never believed? I think you still have – still – a last chance to be able to really look into the eyes of the Catalans with a lot of dignity. Don't miss it. Don't miss it, because telling the truth is always better to say the before, before late. You have wasted a lot of time, but it is still time to come here and say that all this was not true, that no independent republic is going to be made, that we have lost a lot of time, a lot of money, a lot of opportunities along the way, and that you are not going to continue to lengthen this novel in a fictitious way. If you don't, Mr. Turull, others will. I ask you to seize this opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.14.0	Thank you... thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Now is the return of Mr Sergi Sabrià, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.15.0	Good afternoon. Many honourable President of Parliament, illustrious Members, Members, Lords, Lords, today we are here, in a plethora of investiture, despite the unjustifiable and unacceptable interferences of Spanish justice in Catalan politics: they want to decide the presidents of the Catalans, but only this Parliament can decide the president of the Generality of Catalonia. Today can be an effective investiture, with a candidate chosen for the people. Today, whatever happens, who wins is politics. Now, who wins is democracy. Today we will vote for a candidate for the presidency of the Government of Catalonia. Parliament will once again exercise its sovereignty and put its functions back into practice. You know, here, before all of you, it wasn't supposed to be me either. Today, before all of you, there should be Oriol Junqueras, our head of list and vice president of the Government of Catalonia. [[applause]] , defending the position of Republican Left. [[The applause continues.]] It should be because he is one of 135 deputies chosen for the people of Catalonia in elections with the most participation in the entire history of the country. There should be President Puigdemont, who should be able to defend his government proposal freely, and the deputies Jordi Sànchez and Toni Comín; it should be because they should not have been obliged to leave their minutes the deputies Meritxell Serret and Clara Ponsatí, and the deputy Lluís Puig, and Quim Forn, and I am sure that in Jordi Cuixart would be up there at the lot. [[Greetings.]] But we are in a state of exception, we have gone back to the front of democracy. In fact, all the representatives of the people of Catalonia democratically chosen cannot be here today, at their school, defending their ideas on a day like today as evidence of who we are to come out of. The State has decided to play the card of repression and the courts, because it has given up convincing the Catalans; it has preferred to try to control politics through the courts, because it is impossible to do it from the polls; it has tried to change the majority and to make those who have four deputies and who are up to the top of all who can be and who cannot be. The chanting and the courts have become a part of politics, because the polls always lose – they always lose. But we are here, persistently, defending democracy; we are here to prove another time that democracy has won again. We are in a new plethora of investiture, because independence has come back to the polls; at the polls, our favorite space, the place where we feel more comfortable, because it has won with the rules of the democratic game, and we demand the State that you accept its defeat and respect the results. We give it to the State that if you want to win, you will have to convince, not win. Because, as Unamuno said from the paranimf of the University of Salamanca, "you have the brute strength, but you lack the reason. And this, the reason, always – always, always – ended up imposing. On the 21st of December we took an unusual step: we won the repression, despite the imprisonment, despite the exile, despite the threats, despite the brute game, despite the use of all and every instrument of a state completely – absolutely – of anything for the defense of the unit of Spain. On the 21st of December we saw again the low gaze of the State, his gaze of defeat, as it had already passed on the 1st of October, at the beginning and at the end of that historic day. On the 21st of December we said very loud and clear that we persist, and today, from here on out, we say another time that we persist. We need to take a step further in the right direction, in the recovery of the Generalitat usurped for 155 – a 155 that hurts all Catalans, Mrs. Arrimadas, not just in one part: all Catalans [[applause]] –, to take a step further in the recovery of our institutions, after having already, by luck, recovered this chamber. And now we have to start a period that we are convinced is to be fruitful and that is to lead the republican construction. We have done an act of dignity, of courage, of courage, of firmness, as we already did on October 1. We're going back to setting ourselves up again, despite being aware of the many times we've had about our spaces, about the days before October 1st, the days of October 1st, and also the days after October 1st. We raise our heads to make the government our own again another time, our fruit of the ballot boxes, of the places from which governments emanate, of the ballot boxes that we always – always, always – defend and where many years ago we won more than defending, and we won with Republican values. We took the first step to recover a centenary institution, pre-existing to all of us, held during the exile stage, during the monstrous fascist dictatorship, for people like Lluís Companies, like Josep Irla or Josep Tarradellas. We are here to recover the self-government of Catalonia that Madrid has usurped in a muddy way interpreting its Constitution, that Constitution that did not want in the year 78, that Constitution that they broke forever in 2010 with the judgment of the Statute of Catalonia, that Constitution that is now a fan and use as they want, as they most interested, and that they lenge every day against their political opponents. MPs and MPs, Catalans and Catalans, democracy in the Spanish State is in peril, and what is happening in Catalonia is just the inician. We are experiencing new forms of repression. In Catalonia today, it is up to us to defend civil rights and freedoms, as we have done on many other occasions during history. What is at stake is not a political movement, it is not ideas, it is not independence; it is democracy, the state of the right or the fundamental rights. All democrats must feel challenged by the crackdown on the state. We have the examples, and we can remember Arco, Valtònyc, the titulars, the law bites, Thursday, the tweeters who criticize the Spanish government, repressed it in Murcia when the protests are on the street. Who's next? Who's it gonna be? One time they've lost shame, who can assure that it's not in danger? Which civil, political or social rights do we have guaranteed? I've already answered: cape, cape, not one. To advance the country, we must defend the rights of all the citizens of Catalonia before those who do not hesitate to use violence against the civilian population to impose their political opinions. Left wants to listen to everyone, we want to defend the individual rights of all citizens to build a better country, with more rights, freer, cleaner and fairer. We have to lay the first stone to banish the disastrous consequences of the new decree of Nova Planta imposed from Madrid. Tomorrow we have to put down the following, and we don't have to lose a second. If we are to set up the government as a matter of urgency, we need to reposition this country, we need to continue the work, to return the institutions to the service of its people, because every day of 155 the wound is deeper, and we can't afford it. Today we will give all our support to Jordi Turull, a sincere support, accompanied by responsibility and demand, as it could not be in any other way. We have in our horizon more immediately the duty to take this 155, a 155 nailed to the heart of some of the most important consensus that this country has had, and we must do it together. A spasm pinned on the public communication media, on our school, on the delegations abroad, on the Catalan police, on the third sector, on the deployment of the guaranteed income of citizens. And we can't let this go on like this. It's only up to us to get our institutions back, and we can't fail. Republicans need to have a government, no republic would want to lose what we've achieved, we can't go back. But neither – nor can they – can give up going forward. We cannot put at risk the immense victory of '1 October or the revival of 21 December. We have to work with the 1st of October expert, and also 3rd of October, where the country was the guide and the objectives are achieved with the sum of all the fish, and today we have the opportunity to recover one of these fish. We want to rule, we want to decide, we want to transform and we want to make it between everyone and everyone, as we did on October 1 and as we did on October 3. Because when we all work together we're unstoppable, when we all work together this country is unstoppable. We neither want nor can we become prisoners of trial and judicial traps, we do not want to re-enter an electoral loop. We want to persist to be, we want to be to persist in Republican ideals, in the project of a free and dignified citizenry, in equality and in social justice. To continue working tirelessly to end the inequalities of this country: to grow the economy, invested in social policies, working to get us historical memories in exports, reducing debt. And, at the same time, put in operation cabdal instruments in the social field, such as guaranteed income. We have to work because Catalonia continues to be a big point for foreign investment, a good ecosystem for innovation and knowledge, and, at a time, invest three_of_every_four euros in social policies. We know how to do it, we've shown that we know how to do it, because we've already done it. Femme govern and we keep walking, we keep on with the big pocket that the government did before 155. We have made the most social assumptions of history, we have placed more masters than ever before in the education system, we have invested 400_million more euros in the field of health and work to guarantee the rights of all citizens with laws such as universal access to health or guaranteed income. But not only that: despite all the threats of the world that the State and some of the irresponsible opposition parties have made, foreign investments have also disappeared and have made historical memories. And the monarchy block doesn't like it, doesn't like people to feel it, likes to distort it, likes to work with these dice and falsify them. But it's true, it's true, it's true that they don't like it, but they are certainly: Catalonia is a driving force, attractive to investment, tourism and innovation, as well as the catastrophic speeches that we feel about this wing of the hemisphere. Catalonia is leading, and we need to re-governance urgently to continue working on the same line. In Catalonia, we have cancelled the Francoist and justice judgments to the memory of the victims, and other places will still wait and continue – and will continue and continue – waiting. And we have also demonstrated, in the worst of possible situations – in the worst of possible situations – how a country is managed when it suffers a gihadist storm in its color. And they haven't forgiven us yet, and they haven't paid for it yet, and they're trying to avenge themselves, with the Honourable Counselor Forn or Major Trapero. We've got our hands out of the dark. Either we govern and we get back the generality and institutions of the country, or we keep 155 even a few months longer. And after we get these institutions back we have to keep working and we have to keep moving. Every day it is more urgent to flaunt a state that goes against Catalans and Catalans. There is no future in this kingdom. The only way we have to fight is to make a better country for all the citizens, the only way to guarantee the rights and freedoms of the Catalans, individual and collective: to build a country for everyone, a country of the common good, which I did not leave behind. The Republic is the only option to make a society fairer, cleaner and closer. We want a better country. And to want a better country cannot be in any case – in any case – illegal. The State has put an end to the later legislature, by means of the Constitutional Court, more than twenty-five laws with a marked progressive and social character: the Law of the poor energy, the tax on empty housing, the tax on banks... Staying in the State, renouncing to govern us, is renouncing to advance towards this better country, renouncing to defend the rights and freedoms of Catalans. The Republican Left will never – never, ever – give up making a better country for everyone. [[Pause.]] I keep going. Those who want to divide us have been wrong about the country. They have made a mistake of country, lords of Ciutadans, which, of course, should renew the speech: we have only found Matrix missing, the only thing. (Applause.) In fact – in fact – if I renewed the speech and the posen in the day, I wouldn't say « But to Puigdemont, and I wouldn't say « Puigdemont to Jordi Turull. (Applause.) Catalonia is a land of crowded, diverse, that we have built among all, that has worked from diversity to create a country for everyone. With this spirit it was to promote linguistic immersion, that linguistic immersion that we built together with the socialists, it was asphalted the streets or it was to raise sentient barrels. With this spirit they achieved the great demands of the workers, fought against the war of Iraq, against the transfer of the Jew, or did the 1st of October. In this country it's the same as you come, it's the same as you think, the important thing is the common goals. We are and be a people's sun, who listens, who speaks, who always seeks the dialect; we have always defended it, we have always practiced it. They won't marry – they won't marry – from the idea of dividing our society. Keep working, as always [[applause]] To talk to everyone, to listen to everyone, to rule for everyone. The Republican Left wants to exercise its role, and it can do so, and it can be the most effective tool to advance this country. And with this objective we are marking three great challenges for this legislature. Think together the common project. Start a big debate on the model of society we want in short, medium and long terms; institutions, civil society, citizens have to be able to debate who consider it the best model of education, health or safety, to put only three examples, for Catalonia tomorrow. Armoring the Catalan welfare state: school, salutation, work and family – school, salutation, work and family. The four pillars of the welfare state that the Government of Catalonia has to make accessible to everyone who lives and works at our home. And conquer us right. In the face of the democratic regression of the State, we want Catalonia to become a pioneer in the conquest of new democratic and civil rights, as well as a bulwark in the defense of individual and collective rights. Convert Catalonia into an area of defence of civil and democratic rights: the right to freedom of expression, demonstration, assembly; political rights; the rights of refugees, immigrants; pioneers in policies of equality, inclusiveness, justice and equity. We have to lead the defense of freedoms and civil rights, because these are the Republican values, because this is the republic we want, so different from the Spanish State. And what are we gonna do from now on? From then on, like the country, we have entered a new phase, we have measured our strength, we have seen our strength, but also – and we must say – our fevers. If our strong Roman intact and we are able to overcome the fevers, we will get out of it. To do so, we need more consistency and a more solid, wider and cross-sectional majority to overcome the division of blocks. Let's work on it now. We, democrats and pacifists as we are, know that we can only transform reality by accumulating a democratic and peaceful sum, even greater. We've grown up a lot in a very short time, and we still need to grow up more. We have to go further than the short battle, we have to overcome the flying times, we have to put the long lights to add, to achieve all our democratic objectives; a democratic and peaceful force, enormous, because it has to overcome the power and the interests of the formidable conservative alliance, because it has to overcome the immobilists, because it has the opposite of breaking the status quo. Now, this accumulation of democratic force requires firm, serene, and convincingly, and collective intelligence, and a constant, rigorous and sustained effort in time. It requires individual efforts from each of us, but also collective efforts from all folds as society. It requires each person to do his or her job as best as possible, his or her job in the field of social mobilization, but also in the professional field of each of us. We don't expect what the government can do for us; we give every single one of us to build this country. Today this House is a victory in itself: the victory of '1 October and 21 October, whether Turull is invested as if it was not finally today. If it's not today, it'll be tomorrow. Most Republicans of this chamber have to find and will find the way, despite the pressures and the repression. We build; every day we build. And the State destroys it. And they won't be'sorry' – they won't be'sorry'. We have a country to save, a future to build. « Let's go back to our pocket after painful and bitter hours. For the will, for the affection and for the sympathy of the sacred popular onada, we are here again. Lluís Companies said that after winning the 36th election and getting out of jail. "We come to serve the ideals. We're wearing a bitter soul of feeling. No revenge, but a new spirit of justice and reparation. We collect lessons from experience. We'll suffer again, we'll fight again and we'll win again. Visca Catalunya! [[Crits of "Visca! The applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.16.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. Now it's the turn of Mr Miquel Iceta, president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites for Progress. Mr. Iceta, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.17.0	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. And let's just start saying that, from our point of view, this legislature starts as badly as the previous one. And I will explain: the previous legislature also began with a full one-day call for the other, with telephone conversations of the president, which she will remember, with the presidents of the groups. But at least in the previous legislature this went so that it was about to run out of the legal term, which was the end of which we had to call elections. Therefore, we all understood that, in order not to lose the opportunity of a legislature, we had to compromise, to be flexible and to gather, to the best of all, what the president then did. But now it wasn't this case; we weren't having a problem with terms. And I still have to tell them, and after listening to the candidate's intervention, that I don't know why we're doing this plenary today. The only reason we're aware of this is because there's a court summons tomorrow, but after listening to the intervention, we don't just see the meaning of the thing, because we're actually before an obvious contradiction. It is the support of the CUP but it is a proposal – and I do not say it pejoratively, all the contrary – of autonomous type. And, if I may the candidate, Mr. Jordi Turull, in Jordi, some say: "No, remember the Puigdemont, remember the Mas. So, I know the comparison I'm going to make right now he won't take it badly: remember in Pujol. I had attended speeches by President Pujol as a candidate, who, when we wanted to criticize him, said: "He has made a telephone list. And today it's true that some passages from that speech the candidate gave us, so they reminded us of that moment. But this is the choice we find ourselves in. You want to complete a majority with a program that is not shared by the three elements of this majority. And then we'd like to know why this change of purpose. Is this a genuinely sincere change? Do you consider that what you want to do cannot be done and, therefore, must be changed to what we have previously described as a paradigm? Or it's simply that there are conditions that force a content in the speech. Only you – and in concrete terms the candidate – could tell us. We didn't like this rush. There was a round of consultations already convened that we were allowed to do this Ple, probably, therefore, perhaps dilluns, without any interbank and without any problem, without forcing the machine. And I think that as long as it's good, we're all repeating that this isn't a weighted-vote party coordinator. This is an institution, with rules, with rules, with "modus" – which you said my way – that should serve, for the respect that we must have among all and for the respect that we deserve the citizenship that we serve. And we sincerely believe that in this call for Ple hastened the terms without understanding the reason, and less yet after listening to the contents of the candidate's speech. This legislature also begins badly, from our point of view, because it is intended to invest people who have an objective difficulty in developing the pocket to which they are believers. First he tried to invest a person, Carles Puigdemont, who is not here. Then, finally, the reality – it seems – was imposed, and he withdrew, without saying, his candidacy. Then he tried the same with Jordi Sànchez. A few days ago, reality was imposed, but this time, a formal and written withdrawal of the candidacy took place. And now Jordi Turull's candidacy. And we, with the pain each one of us can feel... but we think that appointing as President of the Generality someone who objectively has limitations on his abilities is not a good service to the country. And as you must not believe what I say, I will read to you what a former government adviser gave, in a very round and honest way to Catalonia Radio: "The people who are at the head of the government must have their hands completely free and, above all, their eyes free. I think you're right, and probably when the counselor said it, she said it with a lot of pain, a lot more than I could probably feel. And I know that sometimes raising these questions is difficult, but that's the way it is. In fact, if we've seen anything before we start, we've altered the schedule of the plenary for legal reasons. Is it that we will now have to condition Parliament's plenary to the timetable that marks a judgment on us, precisely because perhaps the person we have sorted out as President of the Generality has obligations that logically cannot escape, unless he wants to leave? And, therefore, we believe that this is why we must be able to speak clearly, and more so if it turns out that the programme that is presented is a programme that can involve much more support than the programme of the previous legislature. We talk in silver: I am delighted that we are starting to debate how to combine the 4.0 economy with the circular economy concept. The process of gentrification, for example, so it's also a very interesting topic. If one follows the proposals made to us by the presidential candidate, it's hard to find out what to be against. It is true that some may say: "Listen to me, this could have been done a long time ago or" There have been reports that you have indicated that the government to which you belong did not address it. But, in the end and in the end, these legitimate criticisms in politics do not solve the problems of the people, and many people say: "Listen to me, if there is an agreement to the Parliament of Catalonia for a plan to reduce the lists of hope, welcome, the proposal that I propose, the sign that sign. And that's why it seems to me that the candidate's speech may have added a little bit to the phone question. And the fundamental question is the following: what balance do we have in the previous legislature and to what extent are we prepared to change, change, overcome, adapt – put the verb you want – the objectives, the instruments and the rhythms. I do not want nor have I ever asked that no one give up their principles, their values, their ideals. Yes, I do say that practice often makes us review plans. And that those who, perhaps carried by enthusiasm, thought that the unilateral and illegal way could carry a lot, perhaps today, in view of what has passed, may consider it necessary to look for other paths. There is no criticism of this; there is the realism of those who face conditions that cause many times, therefore, illusions, projects, to adapt to this reality. Because, listen to me, the last legislature didn't end well. And no one can say it ended well. It ended with a republic proclaimed but not real, with a loose government, with the application of Article 155, the intervention of the Catalan institutions, to call for elections. It's not a good ending – it's not a good ending – but it's that, besides, it turns out we have a divided society, we don't fool ourselves. At least we're not fooling each other. When it turns out that the election result of the last election the first party in Catalonia is said Ciutadans - Citizenship Party, which took 1,100,000 votes, which is a party, with all respect, with which we have discussions, and sometimes some agreements..., that means something, doesn't it? This may mean that some who have not accepted long-standing consensus, in the end, probably because the independence process has finally altered them, have decided to make a very different policy than it is ugly. And, therefore, I like very much when I feel, from the rostrum, appeals, as did Sergi Sabrià, the spokesman of the Republican Left, to the need to refer to basic consensus. But referring to basic consensus also means giving up speeding up little thought. And, therefore, we must all make this effort. And, obviously, all of us, the first, willing to move us. But if there is a candidate of this majority in construction, let's say so, independentist, he goes with a program that turns out he doesn't talk about independence, he doesn't talk about the republic, he talks a lot about '1 of October but not about the democratic mandate of '1 of October, he doesn't talk about Brussels's free country, he doesn't talk about it..., forgive me, about something that... – it's with which I prepared this debate – that it was a proposal for an investment agreement, that I had understood that Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana had been awarded, and that they had joined the Companions of the UPC, but it turns out that we listened to the speech and we said: « Home, it's true that some policies of this sector are in place! , but the central issue of this legislature, in the direction of Catalan policy, has to do with one or more chestnuts. Every time I hear about dialogue, negotiation and pact, I give up copyright, but I'm glad. [[Greetings.]] Every time I hear about a policy designed for the society's conjunction, I'm glad! If that means that, effectively, all of us, one another, give up an idea of social progress based on two half-fronts, on this path there is a lot to run, there is a lot to talk about. Now, there must be a zero point that someone says: "Look, the one I was doing so far, I've seen that it hasn't gone well enough and we need to look for another way. And that, I repeat, is not an element of criticism, it is an element of realism, it is an element of demonstration that is seen in reality and that is not seen in another unknown dimension. Why did you change your speech? We don't know, only you can tell us. What we can say to him is that, given his background, we do not yet have enough elements of confidence that make us change our opposition to his candidacy. I also want to make it clear. But I wouldn't want this to be read in the claus of a personal criticism, which could also be, but in the claus of saying, a cover change, a turn of a hundred and forty degrees, so suddenly, it's taken away a lot from us. Or here are some things that we don't know about and about which we can then work all the folds or this is, quite simply, a speech so that we don't have any more problems than you already have and the gains of power, so compare before a judge as a candidate or if you're elected president. But we have started this plethora with the news, which I do not know whether or not it will be denied, that the companies of the CUP consider that they do not give the conditions to support it. Therefore, imagine 'you read that in fact, those who do not participate of this majority in construction: why have they made us run so much? What was the grace, if it hadn't secured a majority? If, in addition, the candidate's speech, in the accounts of approaching the positions of the companies of the CUP, seems to have allunified them? Therefore, I come to Parliament, apart from arguing, and as much as I please, and defending my views, to try to understand in which context all of us move to try to make the best possible contribution as a function, logically, of the political project that I defend. And the truth, I don't understand. Now, I also want to say, if there is actually a waiver of work only thinking about a half, of seeking legitimacy with institutions that do not have it, of giving up doing a process they constitute in which only a half country would participate... Listen to me, this is opening up a very interesting camp, on which many of us can then bring and build. If it is only a small anecdote or a timely argumental gir, necessary, as it was before, for the needs of the script, then we cannot establish a solid collaboration. In any case, we believe that the contradiction is served. Either there is an independent majority to disobey and build a republic or is willing to explore a more transversal majority. And they can't see any other paths. And, listen to me, I know they say that I'm getting a lot, but... – to this, I'm used to it – but we see it that way, because it's true that we all live and administer our coherence, but not everything is possible. It's not a possible republic without disobedience. And, therefore, and as the word "Republic, certainly, did not appear in his speech, we do not know whether it is really because, for the reasons that follow, you have renounced or are planting..., better not to say the word "Renunciation, which seems that..., you are planting a job on another plane or not... And so, it's true that today, a little bewildered, they left us. Because, effectively – I suppose as many – to prepare the intervention, so, as we did not have, logically, the written speech, we worked the investment agreement with what we had. When we see that then, the guide is not this, so, really, we have to say to him: "If there is, indeed, a willingness to speak in terms quite different from that of the previous legislature, to refer to social consensus, to agree public policies, to try that this country, unfortunately divided, but not split, is not skewed, with us we can count on change of heart, as always. And I liked it – and it will allow me and I will forgive you to quote it another time – the spokesman of the Republic Group when he remembered, for example, important consensus at the beginning of the autonomous stage in language policy. Because, indeed, this country has a lot of resources and there have been a lot of people involved in those resources. But when did a lot of people get involved? When there were conditions to do so, when the calls to the dialog and to think of all were indeed. And this does not, in absolute terms, exclodate great discrepancies, at least the Socialists have disagreed with Jordi Pujol, who previously quoted, a lot, and this did not prevent, in great country issues, to agree. And so, and today, maybe we look at them with a certain nostalgia, all folds, because we find them missing. And it is that a country is its diversity, its pluralism, but it also has the ability to reach cross-cutting agreements on the issues that, we might say, are the core of the functioning of an advanced democratic society. And this Parliament, which has seen great struggles, which has seen great contradictions, which has seen, sometimes, disqualifications, has also seen great accords. And I'll tell them, "Don't ever sort out all the good and all the bad in life. But I like much more to remember the agreements produced – and this is usually done when I was..., or my party was in opposition – than the big discussions today. So, we have to... we have to decide. We believe that this country divided, faced in two halves, will not move forward, cannot move forward, no country can move forward in this way. The reconstruction of consensus implies, sometimes, and is certain, resignations on the part of everyone. It seems to me that I have once said this: "If you are not willing to give up and give up, you do not follow the negotiating table, because you are not being honest with the other side of the table. And it means negotiating with everyone– you can't say with these yes, and with these no– and willing to talk about the whole set of themes, there are no reserved fears, which are part of the sacred, but we are all shouted to find paths against each other, whatever the themes are, however difficult they are. And then, do not forget that the people you see from outside, regardless of their political position and how they have lived these months, are living with this difficulty of getting out of this legislature. Because, it is true, there is a validity of an article 155 of the Constitution, but everyone knows that from the 31st generation it could have been a legislature and this article may not be applicable at these times. And that the primary responsibility for this is ours. They see that I make a "our amplification. I could also say man, if you could agree... – no, not ours – on the one hundred and thirty-five Members of Parliament and Members of the House. But there are many people who are waiting for us: the unemployed, the people who are waiting for the help of dependence, those who are waiting for the guaranteed income of citizenship, those who have lists of health care or who are waiting for a place of residence of the third year; the students, who are asking for a third language knowledge accreditation and who have not put up the instruments because they can actually access it; the workers of the public sector, who have actually reached certain agreements that we have been operating in parliament, but who have not been able to put themselves on the market or to do so; the process of pre-registration education, which has widened a little and which has created, also, some uncertainty that we do not want. And so many things... And for that, we have a lot of work to do. Has it been possible in this legislature to make government? Sense of doubt. Is there an independent majority that you have legitimized to organize the government? Yes, to me, at least to me, or to us, do not tell us: "The results are not accepted. No, listen, we don't have a problem: we recognize the existence of an independent parliamentary majority. But we also have to remember, from time to time, that it is not a social majority. And what's he doing? Enable certain things, but in disagreement with others. To us, I have to tell you that when we met this document, which seems to be no longer valid, one of the concerns we had is that with it was the creation of structures to which the Parliament of Catalonia should be subject. And we say: "How is it possible that the institutions, which are all of us, will end up subject to structures created for one part? They no longer possess us or discuss whether or not they can be created. And, therefore, I urge you, in this effort to avoid the social and political squabble of our country, all of us – all of us, all of us – preserve the legitimacy of this Parliament, the standards of the functioning of this Parliament, and a spirit of respect and companionship that can eventually allow us to advance in some lands. Tell them that we – and I know it's hard to say that, but – when we listened to him we didn't just believe what he was giving us. Not out of personal mistrust, but simply because we didn't know the reason for this change, let me hide, rasant. If I'm honest, if I'm real, I think I'd be very good for the country. And I know that's what I'm saying about embolism, but it's the same, I think it would be very good. Unfortunately, and that would happen to us if the situation were different, a speech, a proposal did not change a political dynamic, but it could signal a point of inflection. And you already know that I, in this chamber, have always tried to be as much as possible in this sense, if there are any opportunities to do things folded, I feel more like the sacrifices needed and make them not entangle us in that which separates us and prevents us from moving on to all folds. As far as justice is concerned, the political position of each individual, we will have to recognise that, for the reasons that follow, and sense of doubt, the impenetrability of certain structures of the State does not help, but, since the year 2010, we do not touch wishes. We have projects, we have great mobilizations, but we have not managed to translate these projects and these mobilizations into social, political, economic, concrete advances. Certainly, you have a lot of merit, I have said many times, to engage a lot of people in a living social movement, but, clearly, we, who are representatives of the city council, also have a certain obligation as long as we can offer our fellow citizens concrete advances. And we have to recognize that since the year 2010 they are not produced. And many times – and here it will certainly be controversial on the part of some, which I will say – let's say that these adventures are not produced because there is Madrid. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But I think every time we look at whether the strength we need to remove obstacles does not, in the first place, go to make Catalonia agreements. [[Greetings.]] The half against the half will not only not advance, but will not remove obstacles to the advent of the collection. Probably some people will say that they will be less adventurous than we want, meaning doubt. All the consensus, and before I said so, all the agreement, requires a certain process of resignation, of resignation for the benefit of a concrete adventure that benefits everyone. It's the way we understand politics. And, therefore, the game is open. It looks like we won't have it today, if there's no change, the investiture. You can legitimately try to complete the independenceist majority, with the difficulty that this entails from the point of view of conciliating, we would say, one day more – and allow me to express – disobey and another more possible – let's say so. It's true, that's difficult. You can do it, you can try it. This will mark a determined path in the legislature, in which the transversal agreements of which he spoke will make it very difficult, if not impossible. It is up to you, because you have won the right to continue to rule this country; indeed, with a formula that requires the agreement of three political forces and with added difficulties due to the open process or judicial proceedings, meaning doubt. But we're doing politics now and here with standards that we've had for a long time; some of them would probably need to change them, and we'd have to look for the accomplices and the paths to do so, because the same laws are the ones that signify the way, the procedure and the majorities needed. I'm going back to talking about majorities. When we decided that in order to modify the two-thirds calen-status, a minimum of the support of two-thirds of this Parliament, we did not do it as a species of administrative requirement: we did it from the knowledge that the change in country structures and game rules was to respond to the existence of vast majority that there is support. And we believe there may be these majorities. Certainly, there aren't two thirds for independence, but I think... and before. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , and I will again forgive my friend Sabria, when he said: "The Republicans do not want, we are not willing to lose anything. And, indeed, our risk today is not to move forward, it is not to back down, but not to recover what we have already back down. And from this point of view, and sadly for reasons that certainly few can share, but there is an impression of this joint work of talking about consensus, talking about links, listening to us more. And from this point of view, as I always like to say good things about the candidate's intervention, I really liked the call to the dialog and something he also said; he says: "Listen, but to talk someone has to listen. We all have to listen to them, too. But I am convinced that the only way we can use from Catalonia to move things is to first promote a broad consensus here. Still, someone will be able to say: "And yet, there are no guarantees of success. He will be right, and history will provide many, many arguments and cases in which to support this theory. But, listen, the other way our people have gone before at various times in their history, this has never succeeded, the costs are enormous, we have seen it in relatively little time. Therefore, it is a reflection that we will probably not have to do with a concrete investiture, but to which the citizens expect from us. I already know that there is one who says: "There will be no other way here than to call elections. I always believe that there are many relays, that there are many alternatives to be explored, if you will. In any case, the Socialist Group's support for those elements that... I liked, as the candidate explained, some of the elements of his programme, which are quite common in the end. What does this country want? Economic development and occupation. We would like everyone to know that vocational training was more effective; that we could make a more powerful reform of the Occupational Service of Catalonia; that our skills in labour inspection were used to bring out the black and also to fight for equality between men and women in the workplace. We want to have the best school; we want to give the maximum support to the great trumpets of this country, which is found many of them at university, science, technology and research, which we have here, well at will. We need a social recovery of the share of the population most affected by the crisis, and that's where we all agree; then surely some people would want to go farther, others would want one way or another... And then we want more self-government and better financing. This can unite a lot of this chamber, if someone has the courage to raise this flag with sincerity, without the need for ideological or long-term renunciations, but if they are looking for the best welfare of our citizens, at a time when politics has spread more than it has arranged, at a time when the economy, while it seems to be bellucating, has left people behind, at a time when we do not have the right, I believe, to introduce more elements of uncertainty and instability than we have already introduced in the past few months. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.18.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Now is the turn of Mr Xavier Domènech, president of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.19.0	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, candidate Turull, I must confess to surprise, because I also have to confess that I did not expect much of this sad thing late in the Parliament of Catalonia, but I have seen, I have been able to listen to the last intervention of Mr Miquel Iceta..., surprisingly, Mr Turull, his speech convinced Mr Miquel Iceta, seems to be able to even with an autonomy and all too shy in this sense, and it seems that Mr Iceta is offering them, if they continue this way, the possibility of a support for a change of res– repeat the words. I don't criticise it; the world is brave. The world is of the valiant people who come to go further than they were trapped in. The world is of the valiant and the explorers, Mr. Miquel Iceta. But I'd invite her to go, at least, a little bit more there, to explore a little bit more there. Because if you are willing..., we, Mr. Turull, do not – and now I will explain to you why – – but if you are willing... – to build cross-cutting majorities, yes – but if you are willing to give support to Mr. Turull if you reaffirm that the speech he has made is the speech you really believe, I understand, I would say to him: we go further and we are all willing to lead a motion of censure at the Congress of Deputies to make it outside the People's Party. [[Some applause.]] I share the words – I think they are literal, I pointed out to them in a moment – "policy must be able to give up in order to make concrete contributions that benefit everyone. Taking out the People's Party of the State I believe that it benefits us..., obviously not the People's Party, obviously not Ciutadans, that it supports it, but to the rest I believe that it benefits us greatly; not only Catalans and Catalans, but also, I believe, together with the German peoples of Spain. Therefore, if your invitation to this possible cross-sectional majority was this, my invitation is that I carry it further. That would be a hopeful hour. I have to tell you, Mr. candidate, Mr. Turull, that you said that today was an hour..., a difficult time, but an hour hoped for. I didn't see it, I didn't see it. I have seen a basic reading, I suppose, of a government agreement, of the government agreement that you have with the Republican Left, a programmatic reading, with very little passage, with very little explanation and that does not result in a real political debate of the political situation in which he finds himself at these moments Catalonia, and also Spain. The reality is that we are experiencing moments of uncertainty, confusion, of very little clarity. And I think today the investment speech you've made has still made us more confident, more uncertain and less clear. We are living, certainly, today, not an hour hoped for, but one of the darkest hours in the history of this country. And at a time when we are living the darkest hours of the history of this country – and you know it, and Members and Members of this House know it in their own flesh – we see where once again the tactic is constantly imposed on a non-existent strategy, an absolutely non-existent strategy. After three _months of negotiations between Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana – and I suppose the CUP; already explained by the companies and companies of the CUP – it seemed that the government's distribution or that was left that in the Catalan public communication media was the most important, the raw reality is imposed: it is imperative that there is no more strategy, there is no strategy beyond an epic that has been repeatedly shown to be sterile. There is no more tactic on today's day beyond the pure reaction to a judicial calendar. No strategy or tactics in one of the darkest moments of Catalonia's history. And we see it very clearly with the celebration of this Plea, the Plea that seemed impossible to celebrate. Three months with the Ple that seemed impossible to celebrate is resolution yesterday, in a moment, because of what? On the basis of an independent majority agreement? No, no, Because of a proposal to get out of the situation? Neither do you. Due to a summons of the Supreme Court judge Llarena. And it is proposed in this House that we decide the meaning of our vote according to the events that may or may not pass tomorrow, and it is required according to these same events the vote to the Presidency of the Generality of Catalonia, according to the calendar that imposes a judgment of the Supreme Court. The program, the recovery of self-government, the need to build a future collection, all subordinated to a reality alone: a jutge, a room. We don't deserve this. And it's that many times in the past few years, not today, not yesterday, just a long time ago, we live strategies that believe they are or explain that they are boycotting or denouncing the situation in Catalonia in the State and end up becoming an autoboy for all Catalans and Catalans. And it's true – it's true – that the performance of certain state apparatuses is absolutely intolerable; in that we would absolutely agree. It is also true: the performance of the Government of the People's Party, held in this priceless party that Mrs. Arrimadas explained to us: "Citizens, the party of consensus and pact... Well, yes, it is true. It is true that you agree with Mrs Cifuentes, who falsifies her university degrees; it is true that you agree with the PSOE of the EREs in Andalusia, and it is true that you are the main supporter of the People's Party in Spain. [[Greetings.]] If those are your famous solutions, we don't want them; thank you. But it is true that this People's Party, which ignores the dictates of its own state council, with a constitutional court that ends up making provisos that had not been asked..., is certain that this is not tolerable; that is true. It is true that we have seen judicial resolutions in which we are told that a person is in prison not for the violence he has committed, but because in his action, and the product of the repression he has suffered from police equipment, that violence is attributed to him; and it is true. And yes, we have, of course, seen judicial acts where it is said that a Roman person in prison to profess an ideology; and this we have seen, we have read. That's all absolutely true. It is true that when these guarantees are abandoned, trust in the state of law is lost and trust in the same democracy is lost. That's all true. But as true as this is that we are also constantly living a process in which the judicial calendar and the strategy of his complaint subordinates all and each of the actions of Catalan politics. And then you can't get investments, and then you can't get self-government back, and then you can't get a people's sun or rule for all Catalans and Catalans. The recovery of Catalonia's self-government cannot be in the hands of the lack of strategy and an absolutely reactive tactic; it cannot be in the hands of this. Because this recovery is necessary to get us to stay strong, and not weak. It's necessary to move forward, not back, not to continue blocking. It is necessary to fight against the judicialization of politics, too; but above all it is necessary to leave no one behind, absolutely no one behind. And someone may think that this is the same, that this Parliament, that the institutions of the Generality of Catalonia, that our self-government is a great autonomy. And, as it is a sea of autonomy, we can make him serve as we say, for whom we say; we can subordinate him to our strategies, we can lessen him. Who thinks this doesn't know Catalonia, because he doesn't rule for all the people of Catalonia, but only for one part, and he can't pretend to represent Catalonia. The self-government of Catalonia, the Generality of Catalonia, is a republican conquest, not of a mental republic, not of symbolic gestures, not of disobedience without any form of strategy; it is the conquest that is produced during the Second Republic – this, but real; this, not symbolic–, and its restoration after one of the fiercest dictatorships of the 20th century was produced before the approval of any Spanish constitution; part of the heritage collected by a people and no one can use it as a purely instrumental tool. We complain and commit ourselves to the defence of this self-government, both before it intervenes and blows up all the agreements that existed between Catalonia and Spain in the process of getting under the dictatorship, as before any instrumental and symbolic consideration of something that is of all Catalans. Here, March 1st, our group opened a plethora, we named it the Pleth of Unlock. It's true we haven't had any luck, they see today's Plethora. But in that Ple it is clear that there was a point of common majority consensus, that from here we can only come out with broad alliances and transversal majorities, defending self-government, and defending self-government to get out of where we are and to go further than once – to go further than once. It's hard for me to say that the strategies of head shots against the wall aren't strategies or tactics, they're actually what you say: head shots against the wall, and more than that. They can stay very well in the symbolic speech, they can stay very well in the rhetoric, but they are shots against the wall, not only of those we are here, but of the people we represent. In this sense, what we need is more intelligence and less self-complication, less epic stars and more victories of all, which are the only victories worth living, which are the only victories worth conquering. But that's not what we've been living in these last few months. In these last three months we have not experienced strategy, tactics, open dialog... we have not experienced absolutely anything about it. We were going to live an electoral campaign on Carles Puigdemont promised that, if he won, he would return to Catalonia. It's not gonna happen. The day everyone was waiting for him, with photos on Instagram included, he didn't show up. It was the 31st generation. It already did more than a_me... – that Ple that was suspended – already did more than one_me of the elections. They say: "Wait; wait for the outsiders and the outsiders, because we will go to the international courts and because the international courts will decide that it will actually be possible to present it in this chamber. It's not gonna happen. After many meetings where we talked about things that we don't know – so we won't talk about it – March 6th was proposed by Jordi Sánchez for the investiture. I've had my election months. Curiously, because nshavia said that Carles Puigdemont had had to exile, to go to Brussels, because the institution of the Presidency of the Generality could not be placed in prison. Moreover, before the possibility that Oriol Junqueras was a candidate, the same Carles Puigdemont said directly and forcefully: "He cannot be president from the prison. Carles Puigdemont's words. But now it turns out that with Jordi Sánchez's candidacy it could, that what was true in Carles Puigdemont's words at a certain point was not at the end of a few weeks; what could not be before it could be later. "Sometimes it is necessary and forced that a man is sacrificed for a people, but one must never sacrifice a whole people for a man alone: always remember this, Sepharad. We have to record ourselves with fire words. On the day of the plethora to be held to invest Jordi Sánchez..., he was also suspected, pending, of being then told, of a resolution of the Court of Strasbourg or of the United Nations; a resolution that at these times does not know whether or not he has presented himself or what fate he will have. Before yesterday, Jordi Sànchez resigned from his candidacy. Three months after the election. Today's a new candidate, Mr. Turull. And why does he show up? It shows up because tomorrow there is the possibility – that I don't want – that Mr. Turull is disabled or, worse still, goes to prison. Puigdemont, who couldn't go to prison to be president of the Generality, is now proposing to us a candidate we invest as president for the possibility of going to prison? Is that the proposal? Is this the tactic? Is this the strategy? – Is this the strategy? So far we're here? And so until when? End when? - until when? End when and end where? – until when and where? What we're living – and it's hard for me to say this, the way I'm going to say it – is the recognition of the absolute bankruptcy of all the strategies, of the cunning – that this word is empty now –, of everything that's promised that you didn't know how you would do it or if you could actually do it. What we are living is the total and absolute exhaustion of the symbols of republics that are explained as mental states, of constituent processes that are supposed to be done to Brussels. Someone would have to go back if there were any cases in the history of a process that happened outside their country; it would be worth going back, honestly. And we know there's patience. Proud of astute, non-res tactics for non-existent strategies, which means that they can't be explained. That's right, yeah. Because, yes, there is patience – there is patience – there is the patience of the deputies and deputies of this chamber who knew the justice about, before and after; there is also patience of a whole people – there is also patience of a whole people – a town that cannot continue to explain that we have great strategies and great tactics and big boycotts, that they are auto-boycotts. Today, as far as I'm concerned, you don't even know what you're talking about. Do you intend to invest a president who will be president and, therefore, will be levated to him? Is Mr. Turull voting? Or do we intend to participate in a grandiose new epic that all justifies it and that brings us more shots against the wall; a grandiose strategy, every less grandiose one – every less grandiose one – that has been very dear, but sometimes, to our people? Or do you intend to do this today to go to a few elections tomorrow? What are you proposing, most of you? The people... not just us, the people deserve to know what you're proposing. It cannot bring more trust, in this sense, of the people. Obviously you're not our candidate. I think you already know. It is not because, in this game of symbols, for us you represent – and not only symbolically – the Convergence of the worst stage, the Convergence of the 3_per_cent, the Convergence of the retails – which you are now coming to us here and explaining that you will make us believe in social assumptions is hard to believe –; the Convergence that did not shake his heart when 15-M companies were judged – there did not shake his heart in this sense. We can't give support to this convergence. It is also true that today I believe that it is neither proposing this nor supporting this Convergence; it is proposing to participate in a tactic, a martyr, which we do not share, and therefore deny. The complaint can't turn into self-justification. We cannot fall into something that has been our country's own mass in the great epics of defeat; we need victories, we need to win, we need to move forward, we cannot only justify ourselves constantly, we cannot speak only for one sector, we need to speak for all sectors and for all. Today's proposal does not serve to act against the judicial process, I think we all know it, it does not serve to act against the judicial process that deals with deputies and deputies; it does not serve because we are coming out of the blockade, it will not serve what it does today because we are coming out of the blockade; it does not serve to guarantee an application, for example, of guaranteed income that I do not leave out their receivers as we are now living, and that is not responsibility only of 155; it does not serve to end with the lists of hope and higher taxes of the whole State; it does not serve to face the great challenges of the country; it does not serve to stop being trapped in this eternal presence and to start to walk from time to time in the future. We must face the need for a new stage, concentrate all our forces on the recovery of self-government, on building a future of respect for the sovereignty and the conjunction of the people of Catalonia; concentrate on overcoming the blockade, not on bringing us to the precipice, and concentrate on leaving no one behind. Just looking – and this is the debate that we have not had today and I hope that some of us are in an investment debate – to make the future that we deserve to unlock this present. And this – I am sorry – does not represent the proposal that you brought here today. It's going to take a lot longer than that moment and this proposal. It will now be necessary to build strategies and not tactics; to build the country and not to carry it against the wall; to stop living at once in symbolism, for many truths or lies that contain this symbolism, because it contained many, lies, and to start fighting for the victories that are worth, that are all of them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.20.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. Now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. It's Mr. Carles Riera's return, therefore. I remind you that you have a 15-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.21.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, we want to express, we want to express our full solidarity and support for all the people who are entrepreneurs and who today cannot be here, in this chamber, for all the exiles, for all the people who are condemned to the Spanish State to express their thoughts and also for all the people who are to appear, unfortunately, before this court of exception, this dictatorial court, which is the Supreme Spanish Court. But also our solidarity with the more nine hundred people who at these times are being prosecuted or investigated for the events of October, and, as an internationalist claus, as an international claus, we do not want to fail to give our support to the companies and companies that are fighting in the streets of Murcia at these times, and also to express our firm embrace to those who have also played their part in these last days at the bar of Lavapiés, Madrid. Well, when a state of law tolerates that a judge of its courts, for the most part, claims to subordinate the sovereignty of a parliament to its fantasies of small and ridiculous Bonaparte of the law, its authoritative drift is clear as the light of day. There is nothing to consider this drift as proof of the superiority of the State over the democratic aspirations of the 2_million long people who voted on October 1. Independence, they say, would have underestimated its strength, the strength of the State such a time. But it's not like that. Independence, such once in an ingenuous way, has effectively ignored..., or a part of independence, in an ingenuous way, has effectively ignored its deep nature, its ideological developments, its repressive bureaucracy, its intact Francoist devices under the layer of law. In fact, the Catalan socio-vergency, which has reigned for years and years in this house, has been charged with defuming the national and class nature of the monarchy, the heritage of Francoism; so many particular interests, so much institutional collaboration, so many party machinery in the service of the Spanish oligarchic order. This has made autonomy, governed by socio-vergency for years and years. It cannot be remembered that you have also sent young people to the National Court for the events of 2011, in the wake of protests against the Parliament that approved the worst antisocial details from the end of the dictatorship while the banks were rescued. They asked them a thousand times that they didn't resort to courts of exception or exceptional criminal types, but you did. And that autonomy is what it does not have to return, but it is not just because the protection of the State will prevent it and continue to apply 155 equally, but because our society will no longer admit new party conxorxes or new institutional corruptions. But we tell them that the intention of this state is to defeat them. Because this state that's been through everything that doesn't like Catalonia is already definitely intoxicated, maybe, it's a shame. And his anti-democratic intoxication is already a common place in Europe; the presence of Carles Puigdemont, who continues to feel our candidate, is said to be step by step, alongside our activist Anna Gabriel, in Geneva, has put it before all public opinion worthy of being taken into account at international level. The drift of the Spanish State cannot be more democratic: it embroiled peaceful social and political leaders, attacked defenceless people, intervened our institutions usurping its legitimate right, wanted to refer to its despotic insolence calling for elections that I could not lose, but which he lost in a roundabout way. And our votes, at these times – Republican votes, independent votes – are stones to the stomach of the State, they cannot be overcome; the naked in the throat is so strong that the only alternative that has to be fished is the legalist clubs against our Parliament to try to paralyze it. It's pointless they're trying to pervert the democratic reason. In its intention, we repeat, in its own intention, in its present natural, the State is on the road to defeat. As you know, the UPC has blasphemed the indecisions, the marrads, the setbacks of majority sovereignty in this chamber at the length of the last legislature, and also at the length of this, still, short term legislature. And to this very moment we are following it: we believe that its direction has not been able to carry the power of the most combative, more conscious and more organized people of our people towards the objective they have entrusted to it: independence to make a republic of social rights. His inopia at the time of broadening the social base for the independence that they are in such a hurry now has made it possible to adopt ridiculously inadequate assumptions after the brutal details of the last few years. But it has arrived – it has arrived –, ladies and gentlemen, the decisive moment between October 1 and 3, when the State was on the defensive and unable to respond. And at this moment, you left the Republic won in the street. And when after the brutal repression of the State, its intervention on the institutions and its groover attempts to win the elections of 21 December, the people revalidate their confidence in the independence majority, we carry three fair months of vacillations, partisan struggles, vintages and revenges at the pace imposed on us by the little Bonaparte of the Supreme Court. The time has come to say no to so much calculation, so much indecision, so much delay, so much delay. We are aware that, in the face of the State's move against our sovereignty and the repression of the State, we need to make an institutional front now and here, always. Against the injustice covered with legality must be used effectively all the combined instruments in our abyss, all of them. But we are not united by the unit, in abstract, locked in the parliamentary chamber and on the paper. We've already done enough full road on the paper, we've already suffered enough time in favor of state structures that only existed on the paper, we've already been too confused with the law-to-law legalopolitics. If it is a matter of dealing with the state in all the lands, the question is simple: Carles Puigdemont is the candidate of the majority of this Parliament, he is our candidate because he was the most voted on the 21st of December and it is unfortunately his shortcomings and hesitations on the 10th and 27th of October. And, if not, it is still for its illegitimate dismissal and its authoritarian disposition under Article 155 of the Constitution. Already put, we'll tell you that it's certainly on the street where it's going to warm, too, to close the country's general unit against the usurpation of the State. It's on the street where we need to keep fighting to get the people out of jail, to make exiles back, to prevent convictions and prosecutions. We are not interested in party, cadires or depatxos. The CUP – with three, two or four deputies – has always looked for the interests of the country, for the interests of the popular classes, which today are the first interested in this Parliament exercising its sovereignty and can effectively bring forward social laws, economic laws, republican laws that in the last legislature, some of them with the favorable vote of the Socialist Party or also of the commons, were suspected for the Constitutional Court. For the CUP an investiture does not make a legislature, but there are ways and times to invest that determine, a priori, a legislature, as is the case here. Now, tell us the hegemonic independence, which we are in the first place, that of the investiture against indiscriminate repression, against the prevarication of justice or against demophobia. All right. So let's put all the meat in it, definitely, that the State is going to take away the pseudo-legalistic and pseudo-democratic face and that the veritable face of the State appears before the whole world. We invest Carles Puigdemont, we defend the right to vote for Antoni Comín and Carles Puigdemont, inalienable, indefensible rights. We don't like the State. They also tell us that in a second time, in the case of the legislature, measures could be agreed on the basis of republican symbolism and autonomous legality. But we, in the early days, believe that the time of the investiture and the time of the legislature must go hand in hand with a republic program of equality, freedom and solidarity thanks to the recovery and expansion of effective social laws and development without a process are real, from low, truly, with institutional support against wind and tide. The people decided and struck by '1 October, the people who filled the streets on 3 October, the people who on 10 and 27 October expected with illusion the proclamation of the republic, the people who on 8 November created spaces of national liberation are not worth more backsliding, not more. If Carles Puigdemont was not to be the candidate, we have always said that we would not question any other candidate, it was not a question of names. I have always said clearly that we would never veto a name that I bet clearly for the republic. We have always based our dialogue on objectives, commitments and programme. We have tried, without success, to reach a republican agreement in the matter of the sovereignty of this Parliament, of republican public policies and of procedures are, without success, to claim the 1st of October. You propose to comply with the State, you propose to comply with the Constitutional Court and constitutional and statutory legality. They say they're making autonomy someday we can go back to the republic. We can't take over this project, we can't take over this program. Therefore, today at this sitting we shall vote with four abstentions. We can't take over your political project, the political project they're planting. But we understand that our abstention is not a definite obstacle – nor is it a definite obstacle. Revindiquin, as we did before the Bureau of Parliament, the right to vote for Carles Puigdemont and Antonio Comín, and the second time the investiture of Mr Turull will be viable. An investiture that we also have to say that we are surprised by the program with which it is presented. We have to tell you, Mr. Turull, Counsellor Turull, that we understand and respect your speech if it's from an anti-repressive logic. We've never done it, we've never valued it either in public or in private, and you know it, no matter what happened before the courts or before the police, we won't do it today either. We understand and respect what your anti-repressive strategy can be and will have our solidarity. But today this is an investment speech and how we have to judge it and how we have to value it. And we have to say it's an autonomous speech, with neoliberal political proposals. It's not a speech from a Republican candidate: it's a speech from a PDECAT candidate, counselor Turull. Unfortunately, we have to value it this way. Today, and with this I will end, lords and lords, we, since the CUP - Creed Constituent, give by end the cycle of the process, and with it also give by end the alliances that have been given to it, which we have built at the length of the process. We go humbly, modestly, to the opposition: from the street, from the institutions, fighting the State and fighting its dictatorship, and also fighting autonomy and autonomy, from the streets, from the assemblies and humbly from our four escons. We want to start the cycle of construction of the republic, of the real republic, of the republic of '1 October, of the republic of 3 October, from popular mobilization, from the social struggle and, I insist, also, from the pocket, that we will do with all enthusiasm, also from this Parliament. National sovereignty, sovereignty of Parliament, unilaterality and disobedience: the only way, you know, to make republic and build independence. Public policies truly republican, political to the service of the majority: the only real way to expand the republican base, for the left, effectively, building social policies that are in the service of the working class, of the popular classes, that are the majority in this country. The procedures are, in effect, binding, real and referendum in this legislature. With a joint anti-repressive policy, because this will be a central axis of this legislature, unfortunately, with the internationalization of our struggle, we also agree with working together. With this political agenda you can count on us, until the end, with all the consequences, let's not say that you have no responsibility. But if what they ask of us is that we follow an accomplice of an autonomous policy, of an autonomous policy, if you ask of us is that we buy the idea that they make autonomy someday we get to the republic, so, look, we can't buy them, this idea, because we don't share it, because we think it's false, that it's a very wrong tactic. Because we're just becoming a republic and building a republic, we're going to get to the republic and independence, and we're going to really build the country we want with a Republican presidency. Because the country we want, the republic we want, it's only possible, now, outside the Spanish State, and we know that. And let us already triage – let us triage – to make the firm and definitive decision that the people on October 1st in the referendum and that the people again on December 21st to the elections gave us. So I'm counting on us if what it's all about is making the republic. We would be, humbly but with all the firmness, from the opposition, if what they propose is to return to autonomy. Look at the republic! [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.22.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. Now is the turn of Mr Xavier García Albiol, representing his Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.23.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, already with this late hour of the celebration of the plenary when it comes to intervening, therefore, in the final part, this habit tends to have disadvantages and also some advantages; disadvantages, therefore, because some of the reflections that perhaps you want to move have already been given to know on the part of other interveners, but at the same time also advantages because and allows you to know the positioning of the other political groups. Many things have been said here today, some of them we could share with some of the political representatives who have spoken. But at the length of these three hours and a half, it seems to me, and I tell you honestly, that the important question has not been asked, that after listening to the intervention of Mr. Turull no one has raised and that it is the true essence of why we are here today. Mr Turull..., Mr Turull we have listened to you very carefully, we have listened to you carefully, as I say, and after hearing you for more than one hour my question, the question of today's plenary session, is this: Do you really want to be president of the Generalitat? Is it true that, after your speech, you intend to convince us that you are presenting yourself to this investiture with the will to be at the head of the Government of Catalonia? I honestly have to tell you I don't think so, Mr Turull. My children, who are eleven years old, when they get up in the morning to go to school go with more joy than you have gone up to this stage today to explain your project of investiture for the Government of Catalonia. And I say it with all due respect. Therefore, seeing your attitude, an attitude that I have to tell you on the other hand that is understandable – that is understandable – and listening to your speech, listening to your sentences, we can only come to a conclusion, and that is that the rule of law, the democratic institutions of this country have won; respect for plurality and democracy has won, because it is evident that the speech that you have transferred to us today has nothing to do with the attitude that you have had, not months or weeks ago but in the last few hours. From here I would like to make an approach that has intrigued us too, it is like a mystery. After listening to you, I insist, during this hour and a few minutes, Mr Turull, I will ask you in a very direct way. What do Jordi Turull have to believe? To the Jordi Turull who has come here with a speech, at times, that we could even share some issues in social policy? This Jordi Turull? To the Jordi Turull who has been adviser to the Government of the Generalitat who has brought us to the situation of discredit as never has the Generalitat of Catalonia lived? To the Jordi Turull who in the past campaign advocated further deepening of independence and the Catalan republic? Mr. Turull, which of the three or four Jordis Turull I've just exposed to, do we have to believe? And this shows that we are facing a great farce; a great farce in which today wins a stage. Three months ago an election was held, and in three months you have not been able to present a candidate with minimum guarantees. First they presented Mr Puigdemont, a gentleman who is a fugitive from justice, who is a thousand kilometers away. The second in discord is a gentleman who is in prison and who has spent a few days wanting to be president of the Generalitat de Catalunya to renounce politics in a total way and without any sort of nuance. And you are the third in discord, you are the third to come and perform a role that we believe, with all sincerity, that is very unworthy. You are able to overcome yourself every day and arrive at the peak of the misconception: at night time, I said, there have been two..., at night time, which is the plenary that we are celebrating today, convened less than twenty-four hours ago, so, the finger of fortune, the finger of luck, that finger that comes from Belgium, from a mansion in Waterloo, has pointed to you, and has said: "You have to go to the investment debate and pose face and pose veu to the project that has fractured Catalonia in the past two years. Mr. Turull, I will say it in a very clear way, Mr. Turull, I will say it in a very clear way, and to the majority of the independenceist as well: for forty years the Catalans touched our lives, and to the rest of the Spaniards, with a dictatorship and we did not have own institutions, we did not have own institutions, but for twenty years we had a president of the Generality who maintained the dignity of the institution, President Tarradellas; today we have the Generality of Catalonia, but thanks to you have lost all the dignity. And I want to be very honest, saying the things as they are: Mr Turull's candidacy, as I have just explained, is not a candidacy to govern Catalonia, Mr Turull's candidacy is not a candidacy that he intends to pull forward; it is a candidacy that obeys solely and exclusively the will of the Catalan political class to follow in the fang of the challenge, in the conflict, no longer against the Government of Spain or against the People's Party, but against the normal coexistence between Catalans and democratic institutions. His actions, his decisions and his reactions during all this time, which are totally disproportionate, have a clear intention of continuing to be installed, of following incrustations in the democratic anomaly. And for this reason, if in the end – it seems that it is not – it is not today or disbands its application drawn forward, what would only and exclusively mean to worsen the temporality of the conflict, to increase the anxiety and to "squeeze even more, if it is still possible, in the social division. Indeed, you, the majority of Parliamentarians, have independence, don't you think we've had enough? Anyone who has read..., referred to Mr. Miquel Iceta before..., says: "I had prepared the debate according to the government program between Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya. Same thing happened to me, didn't it? , and anyone who has read, who has devoted time to the reading of that document will see that what is being proposed by the independence majority is more than what we have experienced and suffered over the past two years. In the last plenary session of the previous legislature, unfortunately we live episodes that will pass to history, to the memory of the collective in Catalonia. For those independent men and women, the most optimistic, the republic lasted eight seconds. For I want to tell you that, like that republic which for some lasted eight seconds, for others, when they had to plant in front of the judge of the Supreme Court, it was unique and exclusively an exaggeration resulting from the warming of the moment. Well, I want to say to you, with the same sincerity and attitude that we maintained on that day, unlike others, that at the moment Mr Puigdemont's candidacy we understand that the only thing he intends to do, among other things, is to create more pressure on justice, to have a new martyr in the independence process, and thus to be able to allow them to continue for a few months in their crazy adventure towards nowhere. Today, and it is true, independence has a parliamentary majority, not a social majority, and it has been pointed out a few moments ago; and this is a fact that is unquestionable. It may comfort them to think that they have the support of many men and women who have voted for them; and it is true: they have important popular support. But that evidence, also unquestionable, does not contradict my words at all. You and your compañeros of independence represent a project, today you represent a proposal, an idea of society that does not address either objective reasons or economic or future reasons, understanding the future as part of a global European project. The independence world is not concerned that more than three thousand companies have left Catalonia. It does not seem to affect them that at the moment, brothers, families and groups of friends have broken up because of the independence process. To us, I have to say that, frankly, it is something that has us in enormous concern. Today Mr Turull has presented us with a long list of projects and proposals, some in the social sphere – and he pointed this out at the beginning of my speech – which we could even agree on. The reality is that at present in Catalonia there are 170,000 men and women who are on waiting lists for public health, with an average time of six months to be attended to; there are tens of thousands of children who have to study under absolutely precarious and unacceptable conditions in barracks, under conditions that none of us would like for our children. And this reality, these facts that highlight it, is that you over the last few years have devoted yourselves to prioritizing what you were interested in ideologically, leaving aside the real social problems, such as education, such as health or the economic situation of the majority of Catalans. You have devoted your time, your effort and part of the money of all Catalans only in the independence process. And, as I'm telling you, listening to you today about real problems, because, frankly, I have to tell you that you have no credibility for us. It has no credibility that today comes to us with a speech and that until three months ago they were ruling in Catalonia and those priorities for you simply did not exist. Your speech, Mr Turull, today's speech is in conflict with reality. He is opposed to the evidence they have shown over the past few years and months. They have dedicated..., and proof of that is that since the autonomous elections were held three months ago, they have devoted all their time and effort uniquely and exclusively to distributing power between the Republican Left and the party you represent. During these three months we have not been able to hear or read a single statement by any of the members of the Republican Left or by Mr Turull's party on priorities in social matters, agriculture or economic proposals. Only and exclusively concerned them with the distribution of power. And it is clear that in the face of this scenario the best thing that can happen, the best thing that can happen for the Catalans as a whole is that we can move towards a new scenario that contemplates an alternative majority to independence. I have to say – let me point out – that I was also surprised to hear the candidate of Citizens speak that they would do not know how many things in the face of independence, when the reality is that at the time when they win the elections they have not even had the courage to present their candidacy to unlock the clock of this legislature. Well, if after winning they don't, what do we have to wait for? But, as I tell you, this... we'll have time to talk, we'll have time to move in this direction. You pointed out – and I am finalising – that you expect from the Government of Spain hand stretched out – you said « mà estesa», and I want to point out to you that if that hand stretched out that you are waiting for, eh? , that extended hand that they also offer is that raised by Mr Puigdemont – now, Mr Puigdemont – when President Mariano Rajoy said to him: "Or referendum or referendum. Is this the extended hand you offer to the Catalan set? Frankly, it seems to me, Mr Puigdemont, that you have not lived up to the circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] Mr. Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.24.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. It's the turn, now, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The word has Mr. Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.25.0	Ladies and gentlemen, President of Parliament, the people of Catalonia, I address to all of you on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and I was willing to give up the demagogue to all those who have not made it today, but have not made it so much that they would understand that before I started my intruding intervention all this confusion. I am new, and I would have a certain forgiveness that confounded me; but today you have confided very much. And I would have to confuse Mrs. Arrimadas with Mr. Lerroux, I would have to confuse Mr. Albiol with Mr. Arias Navarro – and I would have to, Mr. Iceta, to confuse 'lamb Duran and Lleida – and I would have to. I, with Domènech, would tend to confuse him, that I do not know if he is in the Parliament of Catalonia or is in the Congress of Deputies; sometimes it costs to know if he is political in Catalonia or if he is political in the conjunction of the State. Made this acclaim—made this acclaim—could do more—could do more. Mr Albiol: at my house, my father, who was an educated and absolutely civic person, I would tell you today that he has the face of armed cement. Because making fun, playing with the irony around candidate Turull's whole, I find it disrespectful. And I find a lack of respect... [[applause]] , and I find a lack of respect to define President Carles Puigdemont, to define him as "the fugitive from justice; I find a lack of respect. And I find a lack of respect to make Jordi Sánchez's pussy too. It's very easy to be valid when you have behind a state that plays their cards arbitrarily. [[Greetings.]] I would also be brave, I would also be the bravest of the class, I would also be the bravest of the institute. More things – more things. I have to hurry, because I have the speech I want to address to those who trusted us. Madame Arrimadas, it's true – it's true – you say that you adjust justice... no, you say that you adjust politics to justice, you tell us. What luck, what luck you have that you can adjust justice to silence politics – what luck. More things. Mr. Iceta, just one point: I also have a year-old nostalgia. I also have nostalgia for the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, committed to the left and Catalanist. I also have nostalgia for Mr. Reventós, Mr. Obiols and President Maragall. That said – said that – I want to address, as I said, especially to whom they are outside this Parliament, to whom they have trusted, to whom they believe in this country. Exceptional, we are experiencing an exceptional situation. If this Parliament lived in democratic normality today we would return to the office of President of Catalonia the very honorable Carles Puigdemont. We would do that because that's what the polls wanted, because that's how most of this Parliament would express it. But today, and assuming our responsibility, we find the point between the firmness of who defends the country and its institutions and the willingness to stand up to a state committed to not recognizing the election result, because they have not yet recognized it..., today we propose the investiture of candidate Jordi Turull, after the impossibility of investing the deputy Jordi Sánchez. "Stay flexible and keep you straight, remembering a city this morning as it encouraged me. Today's is an exceptional investment debate because it's been months since this country lives in exceptionality. It's not a vulgar abnormality, it's imposed. It is exceptional and sad, democraticly disappointing and civically tragic that today can not be present in this chamber the elected deputies Carles Puigdemont and Jordi Sánchez, of the Group of Junts for Catalonia; Oriol Junqueras and Toni Comín, of the Group of Republican Left. It is an anomaly that the advisors Joaquim Forn, Clara Ponsatí, Lluís Puig and Meritxell Serret today cannot be in this Parliament, just as it is a shame that Jordi Cuixart can not follow the debate from this room. And it's a shame that some people make fun of it. [[Greetings.]] The exception has a name: prison and exile; the shame of exile and the shame of prison. Arrested and exiled for giving a response to the collective will in a civic and peaceful way, – I repeat: civic and peaceful –, for having treated with respect the will of the people. It is not possible to govern a country without estimating its people; it is not possible; it is not possible to estimate its people without respecting it; it cannot be respected without believing it. Arriving here has cost us a lot, and I'm not just talking about an institution that is running 1359, an institution that today would like to trust its president number 131. I speak to them especially, of course, for the last few months, with a state willing to do us for. The State wanted to solemnize the evil exercise of por. But you know what? We're brave and we're worthy. They have wanted to do us for, they have beaten us, they have wanted to lower us, they want to humiliate us, but they forget all things. Oblivion that a country is a chain of complicitys, of wills that come from the moon and go further. And they forget that we are neither four, nor thirty-two, nor thirty-four, nor one hundred and thirty-five, they forget that we are more than two million people than every day we solemnize our commitment to the dignity of the country, each from its responsibility, each making its own small contribution. And this? So, why don't we just talk about social leaders, presidents, deputies. We talk, fortunately, about you, and you, and you, and so many other people who don't know that every day you exercise dignity in a constant, natural and impossible way to shut up. It has cost us a lot to get here, individually and collectively. And we appreciate the effort of all those who, in times of adversity, have continued to believe in this people: there are many of us who believe in this people. As long as we don't get here today, the state government has tried everything, but it hasn't. We are here, the country is here, because the deputies of this Parliament represent the will and sovereignty of this people. Is there anything more worthy than representing the people and listening to what they told us in the polls? The ballot boxes told us: dignity. Today we propose a step of enormous dignity. In Catalonia we like the polls and respect them, so we went to vote on October 1st and that's why we returned on December 21st 2017. Someone suggested, a few days ago, that we forget – that we forget – the 1st of October and its reference. So, no, sir – no, sir – we say no, that we will not forget the day that we were more worthy and braver than we had ever imagined. Before, during October 1, the people of this country acted, acted, fraternally. We are the 1st of October, the dignity that today represents Jordi Turull, is the dignity of the 1st of October. We know that today is today and tomorrow is tomorrow. Mr. Turull, your best speech is your witness and your heart. [[applause]] And the people of Catalonia know that. The big countries... [[The applause continues.]] His best speech is his witness and his heart, and the people of Catalonia know it, because the great countries [[applause persists]] And we are a great country, the great countries have memories. Memory is not grudge, memory is memory, it is respect – respect – to its own history. Those who have for the memory – those who have for the memory, and I don't look at anyone – those who have for the memory are those who have the tempt to deny it or to pass it through the thirst for grudge: to us who do not hope for it. We like respect for people, the willingness to join, the willingness to build, the respect for everyone, which is respect for political debate, all political debate; this is what we ask. It's so easy to hear! Debate, respect, more debate and respect and protect basic rights. Move the civic expression of ideas and move the pau and the dialog, talk, talk, talk, talk... And we are – we are – from respect and we want to be a people's sun, and be a people's sun with different views, different accents, but a people's sun with the ability to decide. We like to listen, debate, vote... we like to vote. We like the ballot boxes and respect the results of the ballot boxes, also respect the will expressed. Not everyone can say the same. That is why today we will vote in favour of the investiture of candidate Jordi Turull. The yes to Jordi Turull allows us to reconnect the moment and dignity of this Parliament with the extraordinary support that President Carles Puigdemont has received at the polls. The laws emanate from the will of the people and the wills are expressed in the ballot boxes and the wishes expressed in the ballot boxes do not take place, are not punished, nor are they intended to block applying all kinds of strategies that they have nothing to do with a state that is recognized to be clear and transparent. We defend democracy, we respect winning and losing, some saying white and others saying black and arbitrage of ballot boxes. That is why we denounce all the many and unacceptable efforts – often unimaginable – that the Government of the State has practiced, and in the last few months in a particularly virulent way, in order to violate democracy in Catalonia. You can't build anything by stealing freedom, imposing a named dialog threat. That's not the dialog, the threat. We don't want to live in a country that hits people just because they want to vote. This is not done and cannot be allowed. We're a country that wants to live in freedom. We don't want to be silent or silent. Don't ask so much. You know what I'm talking about, right? Application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. It is, if I may, the expression of shame. Or if it prefers to attack institutions, self-government, the ability to decide on Catalans and Catalonia. An attack that, alertly, broke the mark and the rules of 78. That's why today the Spanish State is a state in crisis. They wanted Catalonia to shut up and have carried its own state and respect it more elementary to its institutions. 155, ladies and gentlemen, that's what we don't want to be. It's the threat, the aggression we reject, that we want to banish. 155 is an attack on all – all – the 7_million_i_mig citizens of this country. She's a picker that doesn't make a difference between Catalans. It's a legal weapon that hurts us all, so it hurts us all, we think as we think. In the devastating effects of 155 we are also a people's sun. The State does not know Catalonia, nor does it know it, nor does it want to know it. And what's worse, it doesn't recognize her, and that's why she doesn't respect her. They thought the insistence on the threat would make us small and, you see, the threat of porous resistance and, by force, will make us great. We're October 1st, we'll protect all the values of October 1st. But we're also these people who, on the 21st of December, defeated the polls on 155. We are the hope that 155 has won and the execution of all these initiatives that have wanted to turn the institutions of this country into a no-res and the Administration of this country into a dead, quiet and immobile reality of batting is almost imperceptible. They won't get mixed up. They recognized him at the Congress of Deputies yesterday. At a later stage, 260 high loads can be stopped, but the thought of millions of Catalans cannot be stopped. So they won't get together because this country won't leave. [[applause]] Because this country is always there. I can't start a whole town. Let me put it this way: they can't get us all started. They can't undertake the dignity of this country. They can't and won't. [[Greetings.]] It's hard and complicated hours. Mr. Turull, they're complicated and hard. But now, around to address especially those who see us from home, who listen to us from the workplace, who are the people who have trusted us. We have the illusion of working for a better country, for our national fullness. We are moved by the idea of making a clean country, a country of worship, a country that is free and happy, that does not know what political persecution means, "interested lies, " sets itself to the popular will, " less to the discrepancy. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We would like a net country, worship, devoutness and happiness, that its parliamentarians respect without turning the word [[applause]] Members of Parliament who have come back at this time. We would like this country to worship, clean and free. We want a country that wants to protect us... [[applause persists]] We want a country that wants to protect us from those who want to carry the irrevocable values of freedom and dignity. I insist, bad news for those who want it: don't get mixed up. But this investiture, as well as exceptionality – arrest and exile, and remain silent – must also solemnize hope. Hope, I say, is difficult, but today we want to solemnize it. President Puigdemont and President Rigol explain it very well: "We have to stick – we have to stick. And before we sow. And before we do, we have to lay the ground down. And, laurante, we have to work with the matx and the plough, and know how to dodge the stones without losing the north, without losing the clock. The hour is hope. Ours is a compromise with hope because it's a compromise with people, think what you think. The countries have right to intangibles, we have all the right of the world in hope. Catalonia is a long history, with moments of darkness – great moments of darkness – with dark nights of repression and political denial – today we are again in political denial and repression; but, at times, it is also a history of dignity and dam. We are back to having a full blank and we have the strength of some nine generations willing to build the pillars of a new society: a country of republican values – to make republic: fraternity, equity and excellence – ; a country that can be whatever it wants to be, where you decide to be in freedom, civically; a people who are committed to creativity, democracy and talent, able to generate the opportunities that we deserve, which all citizens deserve. And before it's over, two things. One, the first: on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, candidate Turull, counselor Turull, friend Jordi, I thank him for his determination in these hours– also to Councilman Rull – the courage to put the collective responsibility on the shoulders, passing before the legitimate personal interest. Thank you. And the second: if there's no surprise, we'll have to go back. You and we will be back here to make your election as president effective, if we have salvation and justice. You will be here and from Junts to Catalonia we will not fail in the search for the unit. We're central and we'll stretch out our arms as much as we can. We need this unit. This did not come from taxes, taxes or decrees. We had to sort between doing and letting do, or neither doing nor letting do. We've got to get out of here. We'll talk about it. We can look at each other from the right and the reverse, but people say: « Fire it. If this country is not able to make a common front against repression and against the state in these circumstances, how can we ever build something, that thing that demands the wisdom, the dignity, the common sense of the people of the street? Today was not the politics of every day, today was a country and dignity – and I understand all the strategies. But dissipate, if God wills and justice permits, be all here. If we do everything, we do more. The country is worthy of government and we're coughing. Parliament will rise, the political groups of this chamber will also rise. But the importance of the moment called for a generous reading, which today would have been vital to continue planting in the face of those who want us, those who want us small. But we have..., we have hours – we have hours. Build dialeg – dialeg –, speak, reason, cohesive, sum, respect, tolerance, dignity. We're coughed up and the one we plant is the more than two million votes that the sovereignist groups got on the 21st of December, and we do it all over the country. Catalonia will be democratic or not; it will be free or not; it will be worthy or not. We're still worthy of the country, let's get out of the way. Tomorrow, candidate Turull, we will cost you and the deputies Rull, Rovira, Romeva, Forcadell and Bassa in Madrid. You'll always keep us at your side. Always. Because we're people too... [[applause]] And why do you keep the people on the street? You've got the country on the side. Because people, you know, are at the side of dignity. You're not suns. And yes, from here to forty-four hours we must find ourselves again, if it is opportune, in this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, people of Catalonia, people of this country – coastal paths, miles of land, pies and stones: this is the country – dissipate, if we find the unit, the path will be better. And if you'll excuse me, I'll end up with a capillary phrase, which says that the cell is always raw. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.26.0	Thank you, Mr. Pujol. Now, to answer the interventions, it's candidate Turull's turn. Mr. Turull, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.27.0	Thank you very much, President. I'll see to it that I go quickly, I'll be excused. The result is predictable, for the announcements that have been made, and some companies have asked me, therefore, that..., we must go to Madrid, hours and hours with the car, and therefore I will try not to make it long, but it would seem to me a disregard not to answer the interventions of all parliamentary groups. Mrs. Inés Arrimadas... First of all, let's congratulate her on the result of the elections. You won. His political strength won and, therefore, I told him about the election night and I say it now, and I congratulate him on his victory. It would also be good for you to acknowledge that there are seventy Members here..., no, there are not seventy Members, there should be seventy Members, therefore, who defended in their programmes the independence of Catalonia, and, therefore, I believe that it is good, from the outset, apart from listening to us, to recognize our legitimacy. I recognise his strength, his political strength in this Parliament, I recognise his results and, therefore, it is something to take into account, but I do not underestimate what this majority represents. [[Greetings.]] Because you're talking about the indefatigable process and that the process... etcetera, and that... the mantra, etcetera. With your comment, you don't get along, but there are fewer than millions of Catalans – that each time they are more – who have voted in favour of what we represent. There was the 27th of September, there was the 1st of October, which, moreover, someone said: "Ui, if you can vote the times you want! , if that, nothing..., if people there can vote as many times as they want. And on the 21st of December there were still more votes in favour of the political forces that defend the independence of Catalonia. And, therefore, I don't know if what exhausts it is the process or what exhausts it, to you, is democracy. Because we are here because the citizens of Catalonia have brought us there. I will now answer one by one the concrete proposals you have made to solve the problems of Catalans. [[Pause.]] I'm already here. He didn't do one. [[Greetings.]] Not one. He didn't do one. Generic phrases: as predictable as ever. I've made a call to the dialy. And I see that your willingness to have a dial is exactly zero. I suppose the only dialect you're interested in is how the solution that happens in Catalonia must be between Mr. Albert Rivera and Mr. Rajoy. It must be the only dialog. Because it's precisely the dialog that's at the scenes of what is the majority will of the people of Catalonia demonstrated at the polls. And, therefore, it tastes hard, when there is an offer of the results that there was on the 21st of September, all the difficulties, as well as the repression, while there are people only to win Catalonia – that does not convince it –, to win Catalonia there is no need to fight, that they need quarrels, that they need exiles, that they need business. We only need ballot boxes and papers to convince Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] To see what day... to see what day they do more at the polls and at the paper mills and they don't give up so much. You talk to us about the fracture; at a time of hammer and trying to make the speech of the fracture. I have said this many times – I am also predictable in relation to you –: we do not seek the fracture, we have ruled for all Catalans. He says: "What positive data has the process been? So, look, ever since the process lasted, before the fucking times came, the most positive data in economics – the records in export, the records in foreign investment – we've made the laws, the most important of the last legislatures. We have made the Law on the Protection of the Right to Housing for persons at risk of social exclusion, approved unanimously – unanimously. It's a law for all Catalans. Or isn't it a law for all Catalans? We're going to approve the law of guaranteed citizenship income. Is that for all Catalans or not for all Catalans? We approved the Law of Commerce, Servicios and Fires. Is that for all Catalans or not for all Catalans? And many other laws; certainly, with their vote in favour, also; certainly, many with unanimity. Of the most important laws that have been made, we have done so this past legislature. Therefore, do not say that we alone govern for a few. Because, when you say 'you're just for the monotheme, and I come here and do all this... yes; 'telephone list, yes; concrete proposals, if, too, because there is a plan of action of government, because, as you say and the President of Parliament has entrusted me, I come here to ask for confidence on a plan of government. But you don't give one, of solutions, you only make generic sentences. I didn't talk about a fracture. Because we are, and we have always defended the phrase... – that this phrase is more situated, therefore, in the world of the PSUC, but a phrase that I believe everyone has made himself his own – from « Catalunya, a people's sun. We've done it all the time. And we've always ruled this way. We are not a political force that we were born to divide children into schools. Because that's a fracture. You were born to divide the people of Catalonia... [[applause]] And God's faith they're trying to do it – and God's faith they're trying to do it. Mr. Iceta, I believe that you, without knowing, or yes – or yes – have made a series of comments of" in the end reality is imposed. "President Puigdemont wanted to invest him and imposed himself on reality. « Mr. Jordi Sànchez wanted to invest and imposed himself on reality. What is the reality that pleases you? This one? That deputies elected by the people of Catalonia can't use their rights? Is this the reality that you...? Until someone likes you? I don't know... you... maybe I'll come up with a point that I think Mr. Rajoy, until you can't be the one who fights up here, you won't stop incapacitating and you won't stop impeding the different investments. You're talking about 155 as if there's nothing to see. Listen, one of the situations... one of the situations of people who can't be here today is the consequence of 155, which was all calculated. And, therefore, you should have a little more touch, because you, 155, are not as responsible as the ones who signed it. [[Greetings.]] Because you voted for him. And, therefore, Mr. Iceta, you can put your face on it nicer or less friendly, but you're just as responsible as the 155. And, listen, don't tell us: "It's not possible for a republic without disobedience..., or change. What have we changed? Listen, I've talked about how we do it, because we want to do it, to give out the result of the 21st of December, of the forces that we represent. We already have a map of what second things and how they spend them in the Spanish State. And we have to be honest, and we have to say how we do it. And that's why we want to reach an agreement as much majority as possible. But the first thing we did on the way in... – something from some people would have to put a lot in value, because we have suffered from this will of repression and God knows what will happen to us again – we offer a dialog. Why did someone ask me: "What is the Jordi Turull that is here? The one who was an independentist? The one who wasn't an independentist? The Jordi Turull has always been an independentist and will always be an independentist. But it is also the Jordi Turull who believes that from the dialog and from the agreement it is possible to give exits to the will determined by the ballot box. This is the Jordi Turull who came here. We offer the extended hand. Who's this? To those who have so far only reacted to us at a time of fucking, at a time of complaint or at a time of imprisonment. But, despite that, we don't have to let ourselves be carried by our impulses. We have, I said, to be and to be worthy of the outcome of the 21st of December elections. And we think that one of the ways, that we never stop insisting, because we always said it and always and always..., is that we want to learn to talk. Because things work out, you can fix them by talking. And I said, Dialeg doesn't want to give up. We did not give up our commitments of 21 December. Let us not give up our commitments. Precisely... [[Funnel veils]] So, listen, look at the election program and it will be clear to you what our commitments are. Now we have thirty-four..., in the case of Junts per Catalunya, we have thirty-four Members; Esquerra Republicana has thirty-two Members; the CUP has four Members. We want the unit, but it's true, as Mr. Riera said, that the unit is not to be done at the cost of doing everything like a flight. And we have to find the agreement, because people, Mr. Riera, are united. And it's true, I insist, the unit is not based on everyone doing what I say, and that's it, but I think we can't fail in this sense. And we need to look at things, now that we've already had a key to how it all went... so, do things not to look good, just because I'm a good vagina. And I'm sure it's everyone's will. And that's why, so, for a long time we could be talking, we didn't agree because you, legitimately, can see it one way and we can see it another, but I'm sure that, in the background, we still do it legitimately, thinking that what we defend each and every one of them is the best way to go. Therefore, here there is neither renunciation nor change nor all that. But obviously I think that the moment there's a much broader deal... and I got into this investment knowing, then, that I wouldn't be chosen, but I wanted to be. And I've said it before: the place is to be green and the place is to be mature. If an agreement that makes it possible, therefore, my investment disbands, I will already be able to submerge much more in the themes of whether there has been an agreement and in what terms this agreement is made. But I..., always liked to do things thinking – intimately; I can make a mistake – that I wander well than simply not to look well. The responsibility we have, very high. People, on the 21st of September, people defending Catalonia's independence made a heroic – they made a heroic – because candidates for prison, candidates for exile, the situation as it was, the State gathering the institutions of the Generality with 155, and the people answered again. Do you know why? For what Eduard Pujol said, for a matter of dignity; the people of dignity, unity and country. Catalonia has been fighting in situations like these for many years, and Catalonia has always endured. Catalonia has always endured, because when you want to touch dignity, dignity to people..., it's the last thing a person can lose. I... I'd love to be able to come to an agreement and keep working, because that's what the people are asking. Because people have mobilized very, peacefully, always peacefully. He's had demonstrations that have set the world ablaze. The people, when they gave their hands, did not ask who they were, whether it was from the CUP or the Republican Left, or from Junts per el Si at that time, or from Junts per Catalunya, or from PDECAT, or from whom it was; I had not asked, I did not ask, because it is the unit that makes the people advance and yes, always does it in a peaceful way. Therefore, listen, don't say: "This one made a change of course, here he made a speech I don't know what. No, no, we have a very high responsibility: more than 2 million people. We have the Members and we do not have the votes; seventy Members but there are not seventy Members here, but we only have sixty-eight, sixty-four Members, but also we will persevere to reach an agreement. I, Mr. Domènech, have to say one thing to you, I want to thank you for the paper you had your political strength with 155. I've got to thank them. I want to thank him, and that's it, because you, so..., may bring you troubles in other parts of the State, the fact of putting yourself at the side, so, of the upturn to 155 or political prisoners, and I want them there..., in this case I want to thank them. In the past legislature we were able to reach a lot of agreements in the laws I mentioned. And I'm able to... that if you pulled the trigger, we could come to a lot of agreement. We don't go with harm – we don't go with harm. You tell me: "You represent Convergence...; yes, I have campaigned for Convergence for many years, and now at PDECAT, and very happy – and very happy– ; what I have to say. And obviously he doesn't mean he's happy about everything, but I won't deny what my trajectory was. I also..., many times, you would like it to come together very much, so, to the paper that made the PSU in the most transcendent years of this history, because everything and not sharing ideologically anything... – I was very small, then, eh? – but everyone has recognized him, at the PSUC, his role in the history of this country. Among other things, on the subject of linguistic normalization. Linguistic normalization, without the involvement of many political forces, but without the involvement, at those times, of the PSU, was not possible. And, therefore, allow me not to go with toilets today. They know that because of ideological fears or hardships, so, you know, we won't agree. I'll never be your candidate and, Mr. Domènech, I wouldn't surprise you if I told you you'd never be my candidate. Except... [[Rialles.]] No... Except that I would defend that if I came up with a decree from Madrid for 155 and you were president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, you would be my president of the Generalitat de Catalunya. [[Greetings.]] That's what I'd do all the time; I'd do it. I suppose it won't pass... And Mr. Sabrià, I want to thank you for your support, the support of the Republican Left. Also all that you have commented; also one thing that I'm excited about, that I haven't spoken much and that I'd like to do much that we can do, are these great debates from which country we imagine, from which country we want. Because circumstances have changed so much, and sometimes policies seem like vaginas just like when they were created, and now situations have nothing to see. That I'm a big fan of making these big debates, starting with the same administration. The Administration was created, in a moment, to defend itself, one hundred and fifty years ago, and, therefore, to defend itself from the citizens, and now, the people that it requires is that the administration of the old, be kind and be in the service of the citizens. As the silence administered, i.e., the Administration does not answer you and you are right about the Administration, this maybe a hundred years ago could have felt, but it is now an insult to the city. And who says that, says in all the themes of sanitation, education, everything, and, therefore, excited about what we can do all these debates. And more. I thank them too, and I don't think they've had a chrispah. And, above all, I started saying that the hour was hard and the hour was hopeful, and I want to end with a phrase from President Macia, who also said, at one point, to: « Catalans, know how to make you worthy of Catalonia. I am sure, President Macià, that we are worthy of the people of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.28.0	They know the groups that the time the candidate has now spent will be allocated and in this case they will correspond to them four minutes per parliamentary group. We will, with the same return we've made the debate. Therefore, I now correspond to Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.29.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Turull, I will answer, if I may, Mr Pujol, to Mr Turull, that I already know that perhaps his own parliamentary group does not believe that he is a candidate today, but that the speech to answer for the remaining parliamentarians corresponds to the candidate. And, therefore, I will respect at least this formalism and I suppose you should do it – I think, huh? – to respect a mike, disguise, and make him see that yes, that they believe that Mr. Turull is the candidate today. [[Greetings.]] Just a little comment, though: his speech is the typical speech of nationalism. Because you have made reference, several times, during your speech, to the people of Catalonia; all the people of Catalonia are with you, Mr. Turull, « the people of Catalonia, « Catalonia vol..., « Catalonia wishes... Mr. Pujol, your voters are the people of Catalonia and ours, too. Your voters... [[Greetings.]] Your voters have dignity – which you have called several times to the dignity of your voters – and ours, too. I'm telling you because your speech is nationalist one hundred percent. I thank you, Mr Turull, at least a recognition respects the victory of Ciutadans, and I do: you have the majority in Parliament, I have never denied that. You have denied, from time to time, that we have won the elections; it seems that Mr Puigdemont has won them, that it seems that..., these elections..., no, you have seventy deputies, with an unjust election law. And we... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Yes, yes, yes, because you have... now Mr. Pujol will tell you not to talk while talking to another candidate, won't he? Like you told me, I guess. [[Greetings.]] You have 47 percent of the votes and an absolute majority in the Parliament of Catalonia. And what does that do? An election law that I consider unfair. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.30.0	One moment. One moment, Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.31.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.32.0	They demand silence and respect for who has the use of the word. At this point, Mrs. Arrimadas, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.33.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm just saying they recognize that they don't have a social majority. And I belong... well, we have the parliamentary group that won the elections, we respect the laws that we don't like, because we're democrats. And because we're following his report, which I won the elections, I'd have the democratic mandate to skip my election law, because I don't like it. But I won't, because that would be to do Mr Puigdemont, and I think that to do Mr Puigdemont you already have several candidates. [[Greetings.]] Proposals. Proposals... I only have a minute and a half. I only ask you to listen to the speeches of the rest of Parliamentarians. Because I've made proposals, and it's not my paper, because, I insist, even though you don't believe it, nor your group, you were a candidate for the Presidency of the Generality today, and you had to make a speech of proposals, and the parliamentarians and the rest of the groups respond to their speech. I've talked about the return of entrepreneurs, I've talked about waiting lists, I've talked about a pact for priority social policies, I've talked about infrastructure, but do you know why you don't seem to have heard my words? Because I said that these proposals could be completed, because here there is room for consensus to talk about these issues and to approve laws in these areas. But you don't want to consent, because you like chaos and confrontation. Because to end this confrontation you should come here and tell the truth to the Catalans, and they don't want to do that. They don't want to tell the truth, which, I insist, would have been a valiant exercise, Mr. Turull. As a matter of fact. Because you say, "No, it is we who have ruled for all men. No! No! And it's not true, either, even though some parliamentarians have said it, that they have only ruled for the independenceist people. They have not ruled by anyone, Mr Turull – none – neither by their voters, nor by our voters, nor by the rest of the voters. Because they have not given any independence, no republic, no disobedience, nor have they made Mr Puigdemont return, nor have they made out the people of the prison... because they have not fulfilled any of the promises that you have made all these years. And that's a lie specifically addressed to their voters. Because you said, "Don't let independent voters down. No, never! I think the least I can do is lie to yours, to their voters and tell a lie that you know it's not true. That may be less of the dreams and hopes of a lot of people, which you have built yourself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.34.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.35.0	And, finally, we do not learn from democracy, from dialogue or from how to seize Catalan society, because the only thing they have achieved is not to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain, it is to divide Catalan society into two. I have the courage to tell your voters, above all, that ours already..., I don't think they tell you, that all this wasn't really going to happen, that all this won't give the fruits they promised.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.36.0	Mrs. Rimadas, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.37.0	If you have this courage, maybe – and I finish, President, right now – we can start sewing up this society that you've cut through half. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.38.0	Then has the word Lord Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.39.0	Well, listen to all the parts, we're pretty sure we won't take it down today, but we have a duty to shape the 21st of December victory. If we don't go out with a president today, we'll lose an opportunity, but we won't fail. We will persist, we will have other opportunities and we must build them together, with all the republic bloc and with whomever you want to add. The outcome of the 21st of December is a tresor, and we can't fill it. The people, but even more the people when we bring them together with the institutions, are our greatest concern, it is what has brought us forward, it is what has brought us the greatest days of our history, of our history more recently. We had an opportunity to grab air, to put tools in the service of the majority, to put tools in the service of the citizenry, to govern ourselves; with modesty, with few tools, certainly with difficulties, but to govern ourselves. And governing us is an absolutely basic element in bringing republican values to an end. A lot of people have struggled to get here, and their struggle has to turn into responses. Not only in responses against repression; we also need to shape the victory of '1 October and 21 December to grow majorities, to build, build and build. Today the State did not want Jordi Turull, and we had the opportunity to have Jordi Turull invested. But for us the challenge continues, the need to grow too, and the need for this to be a peaceful and democratic challenge too. We will never give up – we will never give up. We will never give up being a people's sun nor will we ever give up freedom. Three very brief responses to some of the interventions. Mr. Iceta, the conditions for working together, despite the discrepancies, are always there, less when someone wants to break. And unfortunately you, in some cases, have joined with those who wanted the fracture. And for us, that's a big deal. I'll go back to wanting to add, I'll go back to wanting to add instead of wanting to break, and we'll find each other. To the lords of Ciutadans, with a new electoral law of single constituency, they lose two deputies, but no re [[applause]] : to you what pleases them is to repeat, repeat, repeat and repeat their speech, and, therefore, they can repeat it again, wrong than wrong. To Mrs. Arrimadas and Mr. Albiol, because they have been repeating it: this is not a bridge, nor a courtyard, nor a scener, nor a theatre: this is hers from the people's voice, and we come to debate and legislate. Pretty frivolous. [[Greetings.]] And I'm done, because there's only one minute left. That doesn't come from anyone else's voice, it went to complicity; it didn't go to anyone, it went to walk and it went to walk together. He doesn't have to take out anyone who doesn't think exactly of himself. Catalonia is a land of collide, of fusion, of sum, of sum of realities, and that has not come out the best we have as the country. And we are where we are for not imposing the king, but for a long sum of complicity, thought and strategy. We're not here to bite the pit; we're here to keep summating, to keep moving. If anyone wants to get out of the car now, they can do it. If anyone wants to recreate anything they've spent days and nights in Extremera or Soto, it's free to do it. But, by compromising citizenship, civil rights, an anti-repressive culture and solidarity, we cannot share it in any way. Anyway, as we've always done, we'll come back together, we'll talk again, and I'm sure we'll end up with the point. The country deserves us to go out. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.40.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. It's Mr. Iceta's turn, now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.41.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly. In Xavier Domènech, who is a historian, knows that history only passes once. And, of course, from the moment you added your votes to the PP to block Pedro Sánchez's investiture, we don't know who the alternative was. [[Greetings.]] Sergi Sabria..., I keep what I said, everything; and it will stay. I don't think the solution is that someone's attached to a block. I believe that precisely my speech has gone to the idea of not calling a policy of face-to-face blocs. And, therefore, it's all another logic, which I understand is... it's very difficult for everyone. Blocks give security sometimes, but I think we need to look for all the risk, if we want to look for success. Mr. Pujol says he's running the SPC from the '80s. Well, I want to remind him, as a bigger sock than you – even though he may not seem so. [[relays]] –, year 82 the PSC was already entitled to botifler for nationalists, and year 84 the leader of the PSC suffered an attempt of aggression in the lobby of this Parliament while he was incarcerated in botifler. I mean, this disqualification tradition is old. [[Greetings.]] Say..., and now the candidate, because you're actually right Inés Arrimadas: our debate is with the candidate. When I say that what cannot be cannot be, I say exactly what Carles Puigdemont said when he said: "You cannot rule from the prison. This sentence is from him; this I do not consider to be demerging anyone. You say: "You are responsible for Article 155. Look, I'm telling you, the only people responsible for Article 155 are those who turned President Puigdemont's will and decision to call elections, and you know them well. Jo, the truth is, I was asking her a question about whether this was a point of inflection, and I've seen it not. You're comfortable with your logic; you didn't dare say that the investment agreement really is the investment agreement, but you're in a logic that we can't share or participate in. But, as I said, the reflection I put on the damont of the table in the debate remains for whom I want it. And I said, it's permanent, it's based on convictions, a certain idea of this country and how it's gone and how it's gone back. And, believe me, in the past few years, Catalonia has retreated. Perhaps it was not – surely – the intention, perhaps not so conscious of the risks they are taking, but today we have a more divided, economically more impoverished country, with more deteriorated institutions and a quantity of badly damaged energy. And you have the opportunity to reflect. I don't say, fixi's... I could say, "Recticiquin! No, no: to reflect on whether the new political stage does not require other elements, other ingredients, other attitudes and other taranna, and much wider majority. If you think you don't, you're on your right. But I also think that the cost of referring to a majority in the terms that we have heard today in the debate, the interventions of other parliamentary groups..., will probably involve a much higher cost than we have already experienced, than from our point of view it is too high. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.42.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Lord Domènech, forward – forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.43.0	The Miquel, the Miquel Iceta..., you say that, as a historian, I knew that history is never repeated. Well, Hegel said it's always repeated; it's repeated one, two, three times. Marx pointed out that the first was like tragedy, and the second, like tragedy. This argument is already funny, Miquel. The problem, you and I, plus, we know him: there was a murder on the federal committee, and a lot of things are over. But this is the past – this is the past. Can you look into the future and take out the People's Party, which can you do right now? Right now, I can do it. But quickly, because he wasn't going with you, but as you said to me, so I had to answer; but, go on... We've heard a lot of things. First, that the majority that 'insequently had won the 21st of December is no longer so much, for which we have seen what Mr Carles Riera said. I think there's a foundational finding that you should make this majority, that every time is more of a past and not of a future, it's to say that you don't know what your proposal is, what is the strategy, what is the tactic. And I don't think you know why you don't know. In any case, huh? Not the ones you think you are, either. I don't think so. I'll refer to... Mr. Pujol – I answer to you, but Mr. Pujol referred to me – said that he didn't know exactly where this was... It's okay, because before it was equidistant, now it's between Madrid and Barcelona, isn't it? Well, it must be something like that. Well, we're on the run; unlike you, we're all on the run. It's like, when there's a motion of censure in Congress and you decide not to give a raise to make the PP out, we present a motion of censure. And in Catalonia we are also defending the sovereignty of Catalonia. Because Catalonia is not Schrödinger's cat, it's not what you don't know if he's dead or saw until the box opens. It's true, they've made it happen in Catalonia. For example, are there institutions that need to be recovered? Or more reflexes than an autonomous state that needs to be diminished? Are there nine organisations and nine absolutely new political proposals? , do we keep it 3_per_cent of between? Is there a fight against repression when this affects the independenceists? Or, when it comes to 15-M activists, then we go to the D.A. and ask them to arrest them? Is there a people's sun? Is there any detail that is repeatedly consolidated as it was said that national emancipation and social emancipation go together? In Catalonia, do we get the PP out? Or do we continue to explain that it can be disconnected from the People's Party? In Catalonia there is epic – you have made a great speech, a great speech, I have to recognize it, and you too, huh? , on the second side too – but..., is there epic, epic, rhetorical, rhetorical, rhetorical, rhetorical? Or is there also politics, strategy... not just here, but law enforcement? Because we are, because we are, because the best way to defend Catalonia is to be arrested, and not just trapped in the rhetoric, which does not bring us anywhere. You said to me: « the tradition of the PSUC. The tradition of the PSUC is the construction of a clean, new country of social justice, with all Catalans and Catalans, not only with a share of Catalans and Catalans. A country, also, yes, freedom, equality and fraternity. A country, yes, then yes, not with rhetoric, not with the word, but with constant struggle. A land of a people's sun. Yeah, it's our tradition. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.44.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. It's Mr. Riera's turn, now. I remember you had two minutes. Looks like he wants to do it from the escó. Yeah? (Pause.) Forward – forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.45.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...to our turn of intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.46.0	All right, fine. So, therefore, it's Mr. García Albiol's turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.47.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand that then I have four minutes, I have given up... (Laughter and remorse of the eyes.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.48.0	No, no, The CUP Subgroup has renounced its...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.49.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.50.0	...didn't hand it over to anyone. So you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.51.0	Mr. Turull, what I want to say to you..., I pointed it out to the initiator of my intervention: I didn't know with whom Jordi Turull we would stay, if with the campaign, with the councillor or with the presidential candidate. Now I have to ask you a double question in the same address, Mr Turull: I don't know if we have to stay with your first intervention; with the intervention of your group's spokesman, who has come to make a verbal assault absolutely to everyone who doesn't think so, or we also have to stay with the spokesman of the Republican Left Group, who has stated that he will give you support. I'm telling you with all sincerity. You pointed to your intervention – it is a doubt that we remain – that you kept your commitments – I have pointed out. And my question is, what commitments did I keep? Because in your intervention today, to a very important extent, you have to see the government agreement document that has been signed together for Catalonia and the Republican Left, a document that includes a series of commitments. We don't know if they're the ones you're referring to, if they're the commitments you've made to the elections, or they're the commitments you've made to us at this late hour. Therefore, I would ask you that in the face of the future, in the face of your own dissipation, be a little clearer, above all..., and that is something that we would all like, those who do not give you support and surely those men and women who are independent: what I would ask you is that it was sincere – it was sincere. Because, either he tricked us with his intervention today, or he's been lying for a long time in the last few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.52.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. It's Mr. Pujol's turn, now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.53.0	Well, Mr. Albiol, I know how to make flat flour, and you won't find me for dialectic fencing. Mr. Domènech, I thank you for the comment you made on my intervention, and you will understand that I am more close to you than to Mr. Albiol; not only because of this, but because, obviously, at the time of the repression, the repressions, you will always find me there; you will always find me at your side and at the side of your group. Say that, to make a little summary. One has the feeling that we are where we are, that we have all the right to be where we want to be and that we do not give up this right, we have right. And that's right, we need to be alert, because I have the feeling that we don't like it either. Therefore, we have two problems, not only of the future, but also of present. The problem is not President Puigdemont, that also, the problem is not candidate Jordi Sánchez, that also, the problem is not the candidate for President Jordi Turull, that also, I have the feeling that for the Government of the State and for determining political forces the problem is the Generality and the problem is Catalonia. And we're already at the end of the street. Dignity. And for this dignity I will finish my speech announcing that we are going to Madrid, that tomorrow we have a complicated day, but that we will face with all the dignity possible. You are not alone, as I said in the previous intervention, you are not alone and the people of Catalonia are also next to these people. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's at the side of these people... [[the remorse of the voice persists]] He's at the side of these people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.54.0	Please, please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.55.0	... threatened with imprisonment for having listened, civically and peacefully, to the collective will of the people of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.56.0	Okay. The interventions of the representatives of the groups and sub-groups... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, shut up! [[Pause.]] A couple of finals... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Please! [[Pause.]] One day the interventions of the groups and sub-groups, I said, proceed to the vote. Before starting the vote, I must remind you of the two voting delegations presented, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure. Deputy Jordi Sánchez has delegated his vote to Mr Jordi Turull and Black, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and Deputy Oriol Junqueras has delegated his vote to Ms Marta Rovira, President of the Republican Parliamentary Group. That said, and according to Rule 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and Government and Rule 150 of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, because the successful candidate invested has to get the votes of the absolute majority. [[Widow's remorse.]] Oh, all right! All right. So now that we're all there, go on. He said that because the candidate can be invested he has to get the votes of the absolute majority, and this election, this absolute majority entails, at the same time, the approval of the government program. As I have already announced at the outset, the vote is public by vote. It is voted, as you know, by alphabetical order, starting for the deputy the name of which is extret by lot. Fifty-five. The number corresponds to Mr Pol Gibert. Therefore, we will begin the vote, I insist, in alphabetical order. They must rise up and vote yes, no or no. In this case, I ask the second secretary, Mr. David Pérez, to appoint the deputies and deputies and, as I have said, you will have to stand up and vote. We'll start with Congressman Pol Gibert. Secretaries, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.57.0	Pol Gibert Horcas: "No. Gerard Gómez del Moral i Fuster : « Yes. Dimas Gragera Velaz: "No. Eva Granados Galiano : « No. María Luz Guilarte Sánchez: "No. Lluís Guinó Upirós : « Yes. Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé: "No. Miquel Iceta Llorens: "No. Josep Maria Jové i Lladó : « Yes. Oriol Junqueras i Vies: "Yes. Saloua Laouaji Faridi : « Yes. Andrea Levy Soler: "No. Noemi Llauradó Sans : « Yes. Yolanda López Fernández: "No. Montserrat Macià i Gou : « Yes. Aurora Madaula i Giménez: "Yes. Marta Maderas i Mir: "Yes. Ernest Maragall i Mira: "Yes. Ignacio Martín Blanco : « No. David Mejía Ayra: "No. Raúl Moreno Montaña : « No. Marta Moreta Rovira: "No. Antoni Morral i Berenguer: "Yes. Jordi Munell i Garcia: "Yes. Blanca Victoria Navarro Pacheco: "No. Esther Niubó Cidoncha : « No. Joan Josep Nuet i Pujals: "No. Óscar Ordeig i Molist : « No. Mònica Palacín Paris : « Yes. Teresa Pallarès Piqué: "Yes. Ferran Pedret i Santos: "No. Óscar Peris and Ròdenas : « Yes. Carles Puigdemont and Casamajó. It's not there. Eduard Pujol i Bonell: "Yes. Xavier Quinquillà Durich: "Yes. Marta Ribas Frías : « No. Rut Ribas i Martí: "Yes. Carles Riera Albert : « Abstention. Josep Riera i Font : « Yes. Javier Rivas Escamilla: "No. Manuel Rodríguez de l'Hotellerie de Fallois : « No. David Rodríguez González: "Yes. Santi Rodríguez i Serra : « No. Lorena Roldán Suárez : « No. Alicia Romero Llano : « No. Raül Romeva i Rueda : « Yes. Ferran Roquer i Padrosa: "Yes. Marta Rovira i Vergés: "Yes. Josep Rull i Andreu: "Yes. Sergi Sabria and Benito: "Yes. Mònica Sales de la Cruz : « Yes. Josep Lluís Salvató i Tenesa : « Yes. Natalia Sánchez Dipp : « Abstention. Alfonso Sánchez Fisac: "No. Jordi Sánchez and Picanyol. Mr. Turull: "Yes. Carlos Sánchez Martín: "No. Sergio Sanz Jiménez: "No. Susana Segovia Sánchez: "No. Sonia Sierra Infante: "No. Beatriz Silva Gallardo : « No. Maria Sirvent Scrig : « Abstention. Bernat Sole i Barril: "Yes. Jorge Soler González: "No. Marc Solsona and Aixalà: "Yes. Anna Tarrés i Campà: "Yes. Francesc Ten i Costa : « Yes. Jordi Terrades i Santacreu: "No. Quim Torra i Pla: "Yes. Jordi Turull i Negre: "Yes. Elisabeth Valencia Mimbrero : « No. María Francisca Valle Fuentes : « No. Francesc Viaplana Manresa : « Yes. Laura Vílchez Sánchez: "No. Ruben Wagensberg Ramon : « Yes. Okay. [[Rialles.]] Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez : « No. Jordi Albert i Caballero : « Yes. Jessica Albiach Satorres: "No. Matías Alonso Ruiz : « No. Héctor Amello Montiu : « No. Vidal Aragonese Chicharro : « Abstention. Inés Arrimadas García : « No. Elsa Artadi i Vila: "Yes. Eva Baró Ramos : « Yes. Martin Eusebio Barra López : « No. Pain Bassa i Coll: "Yes. Albert Batet i Canadell: "Yes. Susana Beltrán García : « No. David Bertran Román: "No. Laura Borràs and Castanyer: "Yes. Marina Bravo Sobrino: "No. Rafel Bruguera Batalla: "No. José María Cano Navarro: "No. Carlos Carrizosa Torres : « No. Jean Castel Sucarrat: "No. Antoni Castellà and Clavé : « Yes. Carles Castillo Rosique : « No. Anna Caula i Paretas : « Yes. David Cid Colomer: "No. Ferran Civit i Martí: "Yes. Narcis Clara Lloret : « Yes. Antoni Comín Oliveres. It's not there. Francesc de Dalmases i Thió : « Yes. Naomi of Sifré Street: "No. Fernando de Páramo Gómez : « No. Carmen de Rivera i Pla: "No. Adriana Delgado i Herreros : « Yes. Jenn Díaz Ruiz : « Yes. Xavier Domènech Sampere: "No. Francisco Javier Domínguez Serrano : « No. Najat Driuech Ben Moussa: "Yes. Assume Escarp Gibert: "No. Ramon Swordler Partners: "No. Gemma Espigares Tribó : « Yes. Antonio Espinosa Cerrato : « No. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez : « No. Maialen Fernández Cabezas : « No. María del Camino Fernández Riol : « No. Munia Fernández-Jordan Celorio: "No. Maria Isabel Ferrer i Álvarez : « Yes. Lluís Font i Espinos : « Yes. Carme Forcadell i Lluís : « Yes. Josep Maria Forné i Febrer : « Yes. Montserrat Fornells i Sole : « Yes. Irene Fornós Short : « Yes. Imma Gallardo Barceló : « Yes. Xavier García Albiol: "No. Gemma Geis i Carreras : « Yes. Anna Geli i España : « Oc. Any MPs missing? [[Pause.]] No, no? [[Pause.]] Well, then, let's go to the table. Yeah. Alba Vergés i Bosch: "Yes. Joan García González: "No. David Pérez Ibáñez: "No. Eusebi Campdepadrós and Pucurull: "Yes. José María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa : « No. Josep Costa i Rossello : « Yes. Roger Torrent and Ramío: "Yes. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0301.58.0	We're going to go to the countdown right now. [[Pause.]] All right. The result of the vote was the following: 64 votes, 'yes; 65 votes, 'no, and 4 abstentions. As, therefore, Mr. Jordi Turull in this vote did not obtain the absolute majority established by Article 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, and according to Article 4.4 of the Law, the candidate has to submit his/her one-second debate and one-second vote, in which the simple majority will be sufficient. In this case, the session will be resumed on the 24th, on the 24th, in the morning. They suspect the session.
