ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.1.0	Good morning, the session begins. Before starting with the order of the day, I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules, the deputies Raquel Sans and Adriana Delgado, for reasons of motherhood, have delegated their vote to the deputy Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and that the deputies Pol Gilbert, for reasons of fatherhood, and Carles Castillo, for medical reasons, have delegated their vote to the deputy Eva Granados, spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. So, too, the memory that Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva deputies have appointed Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise their parliamentary rights. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to report on the latest political and judicial developments]] [[350-00002/12]] The first item on the agenda, as it was given to the Spokesman's Board this morning, is the appearance of the President of the Generality. After the intervention of the President of the Generality, we will make a delay of two minutes, and then we will have the intervention of the groups, for a maximum of two minutes. So, president, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.2.0	President, deputies and deputies, very good morning to you all. Before anything else I want to start with this information about the security alert at Sants station. I want you and all the citizens of Catalonia to know that they are working there. And in this sense excuse the presence of Councilman Buch, who is at the forefront of our operation. President Torrent, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Deputies, benevolent citizens, when our country, from the first October of the past year, is living the experience of the intolerable, we run even the risk of normalizing the unacceptable, as if, chained to repression, seemed part of our daily landscape the injustice of facts that repugnant the conscience of any man or give free. Today's plethora could not be celebrated without recognizing the difficult time of the birth, without facing up to the failure of a justice dictated by botxins, without denouncing the urgency of the human and civil rights that presuppose the writings of prosecution and state counsel in the case against those who gave the view to the people of Catalonia in the self-determination referendum. Four of them, deputies of this chamber; one of them, Carme Forcadell, the expression of this Parliament, and many of them, ex- MPs or ex- MPs. For his honor and for the dignity of this Parliament, this House could not begin as if nothing had happened since the sale. Because selling past has culminated in more of this great farce that is judgment against honorable and democrats, for having given to the citizenry the first of October and to exercise the right to self-determination in reference. Two hundred and fourteen years of prison to divide the city or, which is the same, divides mothers and family pairs, for many, escort company of this chamber. But I don't come here today to defend anyone or any cause. Our companies are innocent, and our cause is just. I'm here to accuse the Spanish State. This difficult attack cannot go far without the fact that the groups of this chamber, the crux of Catalonia's sobriety, are not pronounced. Who can shut up before such an aberration? Involvement, the democratic retreat that the Spanish State sees, must worry any Democrat. All of this has very little to do with concrete ideologies or political projects. Who is attacked at this moment is democracy in capitals. All of you know perfectly well how a case has been built about crimes that have not been committed, and you know perfectly well that precisely it has decriminalized the call for references a few years ago. Do some of you, the companions of our political prisoners and exiles, really intend to continue looking at another band before this injustice against them? Because you've talked to him, you've dealt with him, you've made jokes about him. They know who they are, they know who their families are, they know them. They fit in, they hugged in. Do they really accept that this injustice is committed against them and them? Some of you, in private, admit that they feel uncomfortable; it is more, that they reject this action against their companions. Will they also remain impassable today? Aren't they gonna raise their eyes once in a while? Look, this has to work out. I deny resignation, we deny resignation, because we always refuse to resign before injustice. And we ask them to stick to the denunciation of this situation, which, beyond concrete cases, must worry all democrats. Fighting injustice or for rights when the affected are close is very normal, that's what we do. But the defence of rights, freedom and justice takes real value when it is in favor of adversaries. Today, now, from now on, it's his turn. We ask them to speak, to leave the balances, the euphemisms, the myths, for another occasion. It is his companions, friends in some cases, locked between bars of a prison, who have to ask. It is his voice, that he asks you if they want to make them look good or if they are already in conformity with the injustice that has fallen them to the world. The state's attorney and attorney have pronounced themselves very clearly, seeking revenge; revenge governs his indictment writings. And it's obvious, if it wasn't enough until now, that, beyond four words in short view, the Spanish government has decided that it will not be placed at the expense of democracy and justice, but that it will endorse the use of judicial means to politically scare down and to avenge defeat in the ballot box. That's why we're pulling out any support for the Spanish government. We will not approve the assumptions of President Pedro Sánchez. I have already announced this at the general policy debate, and we have arrived in November and the Spanish President has not put a democratic solution to the political conflict from the table, nor has he made a decision against political repression against independence. Who was the different way of doing PSOE's politics? Who was the dialog? Who were the political solutions to a political conflict? Who, courage and courage to change the situation? How can you imagine that we will approve of any assumptions while the repression and the unwillingness to resolve the political conflict for democratic lives last? The two Catalan independence groups in the Spanish Congress will not even enter so alone to negotiate the government's premise, while continuing the violation of civil and political rights and there is no clear will to resolve the political conflict for political life. Let everyone know that we do not deal with democracy or dignity; we have not done it and the people of Catalonia will not do it. And you need to know that in court against the Catalan democrats, in reality we will judge the Spanish State, we will accuse it for its authoritarian action, which goes against all European, republican and humanistic values. Our political prisoners will do it, we will do it and the international community will do it, which will observe the lack of impartiality of the Spanish courts when it comes to suppressing independenceists. Do not go people far: a recent judgment from the European Court of Human Rights condemns the Spanish State for lack of impartiality in the trial of Arnaldo Otegui and five more abertzale leaders. Strasbourg is clear when it says that these people have completed six years of imprisonment as a result of a judgment that was not just. It is clear that today's Spanish injustice will be the condemnation of tomorrow's European justice. Are they getting along? Do they really agree with the great international dimension of the crisis and the contempt of the Spanish judiciary at these times? The prosecutors, the lawyers of the State, the magistrates of the Supreme Court, are in time to rectify. They have to do it. Now we know that, when it suits, the banks, to avoid paying the mortgage tax, as much as they know how to do it. The scandal is absolute; the disclaimer of the Spanish judiciary is complete. On the contrary of the Gant court for the Valtònyc case and the European Court of Human Rights for the Otegui case, the Supreme's change of opinion on mortgages is now added five days after the contrary has been said. Supreme Court the supreme injustice? It is in this sense that we demand the resignation of Carlos Lesmes, the president of the Supreme Court and the General Council of the Judiciary. As I said, I repeat, we withdraw any support for Pedro Sánchez, and in the monogratia debate on Catalonia that is going to make it clear to Congress that there are three great consensuses to the Catalan society; we will see what is the answer of those who say they want to find political solutions to political problems. So we will bring them the three consensuses: the republican will to put the monarchy back, the absolute need for political repression with the Spanish State seeking to overcome democratic defeats and the will to exercise the right to self-determination, which must be respected. And also the announcement now that, in agreement with Councillor Maragall, we will address personally all representatives of the European Union countries to explain what is the situation we are living in Catalonia. We want to explain directly how the Spanish State deals with the policies that have wanted to give the word to its people. It is time to start preparing the way of mediation, to open resolution paths with the help of third actors who are recognized for parties in conflict. Our proposal is and will always be democracy and dialogue; that the future is decided with the votes, that it is the people who speak and that you read that forty years ago they can't start a village or their leaders. Also in this sense we will intensify our external action in Europe and the United States in the coming weeks to denounce this violation of civil rights and the criminalization of the right to self-determination. I would also like, today, to pay tribute to the experience and the values of honourable people who live in business; some, more than a year ago, go to the second prison. They've already been robbed for a year of freedom. They get away with it, how big is it? How come we can't start this Ple in another way? It's unacceptable, it's improper, it's immoral. To sell the Spanish government lost a golden opportunity to remove from the courts the conflict that is experienced in Catalonia and to return it to politics, which is where it has to be, which is where we decided it had to be. We share with all Catalans and Catalans the immense indignation at seeing the petition of endless penises to good people, poor people. But we work and work without rest to turn all this indignation into positive energy, to face together, together, these hard times, with the determination of the first October and the force of the 3 October. We need all of us. Voting is no crime, organizing a referendum is no crime. We will not accept any feeling that it is not his acquittal or the outcome of the case; we will not accept any solution that does not involve the return of exiles home; we will not accept any proposal that does not recognize the right to self-determination, and we will complete it. We will complete it until the later consequences. Now it's up to us to defend democracy and freedom. And we would like to have all the Members of this Parliament, who are the sovereigns of the people of Catalonia, at our side in this regard. I'm done. We can't make you see that we live in a normal situation, no. The Spanish State is demanding 214 years of imprisonment against ours, against your companies and companies, against a government that was chosen by the people. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. We'll never give up. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.3.0	Thank you, President. Once the President of the Generality appears, we will now do these two minutes of time and then continue with the intervention of the groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.4.0	Let's resume the plenary, Members, Members. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, vagina sit on your escons. Then, and as we have commented, it is now going back to the parliamentary groups, for a maximum of two minutes per group and five minutes for each parliamentary subgroup. It has the word, first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Inés Arrimadas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.5.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Generalitat, we were expecting something new: urgent appearance, five_minutes before closing the register. If you've said the usual thing: prisoners and they're not going to support the state's budgets. I was hoping for something else, something new, I don't know... there's information that they're going to call a doctor's strike by the end of the month. I don't know, maybe you'd have something to say; no, but of that, no. You have said that you will return the extra pay to the officials in 2027, but of that you have nothing to say Mr. Torra, man, please. You come out here to defend Otegi. You're Otegi's defender. You have given up defending more than half Catalonia because you have changed us for Otegi, for Otegi we have changed the president of the Generalitat. Not a mention – not a mention – to the 850 dead of ETA, not one. Not a mention of the 2,000 wounded of ETA, not one; not a mention of the 300 unresolved cases of ETA, not one. Here he comes out to defend Otegi. Is that why you open the Parliament? Do you have it closed for three months and make an urgent appearance to talk about Otegi and the trial? I think today..., and you put in the mortgages but you don't cheat on anyone: you made the petition for appearance before the mortgage sentence came out, which means you're not here to talk about mortgages. He's going to talk about Otegi and talk about the usual, the process, and that announcement that they're not going to support the budgets. We know, they've already said it. We already know that with you... You can say one thing many times and then change, but, wow, in principle... I, in this, fix if you, had believed them, I don't know if I'm wrong. You are very critical of Spanish justice because you cannot control it. The Law of Legal Transition, that bodrio from the democratic and legal point of view that you passed here, you know what I was saying? I know you know that, huh? He said that the president of the Generalitat was going to elect the members of the Supreme Court by finger. Are you going to give lessons in judicial independence when you would like to choose the members of the Supreme Court of that hypothetical Catalan republic? Besides, they didn't even have to be judges, did they? , who could be licensed in law, friends of the president. We already have a supreme court. They said more, didn't they? , they said: "The decrees law, the decrees laws of the Government were not to be subjected to any kind of judicial or parliamentary or political control or anything. Olé, it is no longer only that there is no judicial independence, but that they directly take away the capacity of justice. They said something else in the Law of Legal Transition, these gentlemen, decreed absolute impunity for them and for their companions. Olé, huh? And they come out here to teach lessons, from what? , judicial independence? That they don't like Spanish justice? Thankfully – less evil – that your justice has not been put into effect, less evil that we are in the 21st century in the European Union and that you are not allowed to do the barbarities. He goes out here to complain that the government has not been able to pressure the prosecution enough to change the accusation. You complain about that, because that's what you would do. If they've taken their face off in the background, we have to thank them for the enormous sincerity. You would like to call the prosecutor and the judges and say to them: "These gentlemen..., you are my friends, eh? They don't even touch the ones, who are politicians. And, as they are politicians, they have impunity. That's what you'd like. But fortunately we are in a country of the European Union. You've voted here who had to go in or out of jail. But who do you think you are to decide who has to go into jail or who has to go out? And you say: "No, it is that Europe will give us reason. For now, not much. You come here to be outraged, as Otegi's defender, by a judgment contrary to a Spanish judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. According to his opinion, that sentence already means that Spain no longer has a modern judicial system and there is no democracy here. For I will give you bad news, Mr.Tarra: Spain had, in 2017, six contrary judgments of the European Court of Human Rights – six – I wish it had been none, but it had been six. Do you know your country of reference right now in judicial terms, which is Belgium, how many did you have? Thirteen, with 11_million people, and us 47_million inhabitants. Or Germany, that country where..., now I'll read you a piece of the sentence, which I think you haven't looked at, but Germany had sixteen opposite sentences. According to your opinion, if Spain is not a democracy because there has been this judgment that you, as Otegi's defender – who looks like Otegi's lawyer – come out here to defend, because then Belgium no longer knows what it will look like, right? , which has more than double with only 11_million inhabitants. But I'm going to tell you more, because there's one thing you haven't read. It's important to read – it's important to read, yes, yes, yes –; I'm going to read you something you haven't read for sure, and that, eye! Who only reports on TV3, who's going to hear something that's going to cause him a short-circuit mind, huh? [[Greetings.]] Attention, attention! Sentence denying Mr. Puigdemont's extradition for the crime of rebellion but approving extradition for very serious crimes, such as embezzlement, isn't it? Attention: "You cannot refuse the surrender – of Puigdemont –" for the fact that the defendant is considered to be the subject of political persecution. Point. Attention, huh? : there is no such persecution, gentlemen who are informed only by TV3. Sentence denying extradition for rebellion and approving extradition for embezzlement. There is no such persecution. I read another paragraph: "It cannot be said that the accused – Puigdemont –" should he be extradited would be subjected to political persecution. In other words, the Kingdom of Spain would like to condemn him only for his political ideas. It is important to read, Mr. Torra, reading comprehension, reading. There is no such persecution. I guess someone is saying, "It can't be, if this I haven't seen on TV3, if this in Catalunya Radio hasn't said it, how can it be? Yes, you live in a parallel reality, in which Europe condemns Spain. No, the Council of State went out the other day to endorse the Spanish judicial system, and specifically the case of the prisoners of the trial. Do you know one thing that has been condemned in the European Parliament that was not the Spanish judicial system? Mr Torra's xenophobic and racist articles have been condemned by the European parliamentary groups. Of course, you will say: "We must see, how can we not be right in Europe if the evidence is clear? You will have to keep everything so clear, watching TV3 all day long, you will say: "It is strange that Europe condemns the articles of Mr Torra, who have nothing wrong, according to you, and do not condemn the Spanish justice. You are going to take a collective frustration, you, which really gives me even pity because you live in a parallel reality. The Spanish judicial system can have many – many – things to improve, many. In fact, we propose some; some that you Convergence i Unió has not proposed in life, nor Republican Left in the Congress of Deputies: guarantee more independence to the prosecution; do not choose to finger the members of the Constitutional Court, which Convergence i Unió has taken his whole life plugging in there his people... That you have never complained about, why? Because while you were controlling her, you liked her. But now that you no longer control it you want to create yourself to control the one you are aiming for. That is why you cannot give here any lesson in judicial independence, Mr Torra. Another setback in Europe, because they will say: "How can it be – how can it be – that in Europe we are not right? It's just that in Europe you've been kicked out of ALDE to your party. Mr. Tremosa, huh? Do you remember when we entered ALDE? "We are not going to allow Citizens to enter the family of European Democrats, we are going to prevent it. For in the end those who have cast out, out, door, it is Tremosa and his own, from ALDE. Out, out, out... [[Greetings.]] That's why I'm telling you, seriously, that, from a human point of view, it almost gives me a little..., well, a little pity because you're going to say, "How can this be?" Because they believe their own lies. Get out of the lie of the trial, get out of the lie of TV3. It is legitimate to criticize a judicial decision. It is legitimate that families who are in prison want to be with their families, it is legitimate, it is understandable, but what is not legitimate is that you want to create a justice to control you. And that they complain about what's now they don't control it. That's not legitimate. And, above all, Mr. Torra, you've done here again, it's not new, huh? But you have made a threat here that I simply ask you to make. What does it mean that they will not accept the sentences? What does that mean? Are you going to attack the judges? Are they going to assault the courts? Are you going to let them storm Parliament? Are they going to chase us? Are you going to occupy the airport? What are you going to do? Or is it a great manifestation? Because, you know what's going to happen to you, that yours, to those you're warming up on the street, to the CDRs and to the commandos, and to all this..., when you want to say they're going to make a demonstration they're going to say: "A manifestation of what, are we going to do something more forceful? And you're going to get the commands on top of it. The masses warmed up by you here. « We are not going to allow it– we are not going to allow it. How? What are you going to do? What are you going to do? Because a normal Democrat would turn, he would go to higher instances... but, of course, coming from you, it's that I don't know what to expect me to expect. Be brave and answer. Though it seems to me, eye! I don't think the president's going to answer. Aren't you going to go out and make the reply, Mr. Torra? Then you talk about dialogue, what dialogue? Dialogue with group presidents. Answer this question, because of what happens in Catalonia you will be the last and only responsible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.6.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, of Mr Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.7.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Many honorable President of the Generality, if I have not misunderstood you, has asked for this extraordinary appearance, to tell us that he is outraged by the decisions of the parties qualifying initially, provisionally, a trial and that he will not give support to Pedro Sánchez. Well, perhaps you should say so here, and, moreover, we, the parliamentary debates please us, must serve because we pose in common. Now, let me, we think it's absolutely ridiculous the pretence of pushing the Faristol of this chamber speaking in the name of an oppressed people. It may be recalled that you speak to a parliament that has been elected in a few laws; a parliament elected for the people of which you have been entrusted with the task of president and which manages a budget of €38,000_million with more than 250,000 public employees and 16,610 squad movements. With the oppressed, really, flagged people. According to what we wanted to say to him: do not abuse... – if possible do not do so – but, likewise, do not abuse to speak on behalf of the people, unless you consider that the half of the voters of this country are not part of this people. We have to take a lot into account with these things. One thing is that we aspire to speak on behalf of everyone, the other that we believe in, and that we pontificate from a supposed total and absolute responsibility of a village for 7 million people. Why are we here? Because there's a Constitution, because there's a Statue, a LOREG, because we ran some elections called for Mariano Rajoy and because some won them and others didn't win them. And that's why most parliamentarians have the legitimacy to rule. What's the origin of the problem, at least how do we understand it? There has been, and it is clear, a weakness in politics. There were the governments that weren't going to be the mouthpieces of dialogue. I'm not going to talk about establishing who has more or less responsibility for this, it's obvious that the Spanish government didn't give a shit. And then – and here's where we certainly disagree, President – there was a conscious decision to violate the law on the part of the former Government of Catalonia. There are lots of photos of counselors and presidents teaching constitutional court demands and saying they're going to jump, as they don't know why we're getting to where we're getting to. The September 6th and 7th was a violation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the criteria of the letter, the criteria of the Catalonia State Guarantee Board, the Statute, the Constitution and the resolutions of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I understand that it is legitimate to say: "No, it is that ideas are being pursued. Home, they must be chasing very selectively, because they are ideas that are openly defended by very many people and by you from the rostrum of Parliament. They can please us more or less, and they can point to errors and defects in Spanish justice, with the justice of other countries that do not need to miss the truth. From our point of view, it's so absurd to say that he didn't commit any crime, as if he skipped the Constitution wasn't, or say that this will be fixed with long prison sentences. You say it's time to talk. Look, the truth is, we haven't stopped talking about this. Even though we've been criticized sometimes, and perhaps quite rightly, that we're talking a lot. But whoever's talking to them has always said you don't see a crime of rebellion. Whoever's been talking to them has always said that we see preventive detention disproportionately. Who speaks to them, at all, has taken the pleasure of invoking the possibility of a pardon, when no one had done it, and today, therefore, we no longer have to do it, because eventuals – that it is true that before a trial and before a sentence is very fearful to talk about these things, but – they say: "We will not ask him. Therefore, we have said what we call, in our point of view, what we say. And so, and not to upset them, I'll tell you what a lawyer from one of the defendants says. I quote literally: "Do they come to anyone from this writing of accusation? I don't think I can surprise people. Now we have to do the defense writings, but once all the defense writings are presented, it will start from scratch in the practice of oral judgment. We can talk about what it is and what it's not rape, we can put it in the table of case law. Therefore, we have to trust that I have a good judgment. Finish the date. Judit Gené. It's logical that you do this as an advocate, because it's impossible for an advocate to go to a court saying there's nothing to do and that things are already decided. Certainly, Spain's justice has made itself worthy of some criticisms, which we can even share. But there is a difference, I think, quite great, between its layout, its criticisms, and ours. We do so from the defence of the state of law, from the defence of the judiciary, from the defence of which the Constitution establishes. They told me that even if we didn't like each other, we'd accept the feelings, because when you say "we won't accept them, I'm sorry, what exactly do you mean? Because, imagine, I didn't like the decision of the Supreme Court of yesterday, people. Now, if I have to make a mortgage, which I can't, because I already have one, but, finally, if you're on a bench, I wouldn't be able to say, "We don't care about yesterday's feeling. As in politics – what I did yesterday – I can say: "I would do, and what I will propose, is change the law, because this is the functionality of the division of powers. Policies make laws and judgments interpret and apply them. Does that mean we always agree with what a judge says? No, no, And it is true that in this trial many very shocking things have occurred, these orders have occurred to European courts that have not been granted in the terms that had been demanded, and that have not been resorted to, and have been withdrawn. There are also those who may be surprised – I do – that the same process has developed in different ways. There are many things that are questionable. Now, in a state of law one can criticize the judicial decisions, but, unlike the decisions of the legislative power, the executive power, which can be appealed, the judicial ones have immediate effectiveness, particularly if they are of the Supreme Court. To say the second thing you said to us, you said: "No, as we did not like the prosecution's writings and the state's attorney, we would not vote for the assumptions. Miri, the feeling of the vote to the assumptions is absolutely free, and the reasons that can endorse one or another position are also free. Now, let me tell you, I think it's a mistake to turn the presupposition vote on a trial that hasn't been held yet. I think it's a mistake. Because, moreover, it is said: "No, the Government of Spain has not said, it has not done... In fact, there is one who considers, feeling contrary, that the Government of Spain has said and has done so, in the terms, for example, of the discussion on the existence or not of violence in these crimes and, therefore, the proper qualification or not, of rebellion of the crime. And this, among other things, has led him – and he is legitimate in democracy – to criticise the same president of the government or the vice president of the government when he spoke about the risks of pre-trial detention. Now, you say, "We want to condition you to this. Look, you'll know what Catalans benefit most, you'll know, because we're not just talking about concrete, tangible benefits that are in the project, but also what political orientation we want in Spanish politics, if an attempt to establish a dialog... You say, "What dialog? Listen to me, I don't have time to read the series of meetings that led to the restoration of institutional relations between the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain. I do not know if you will tell me today, not just because you answer or not, but if you will tell me, it is clear to me that there was satisfaction in the Government of Catalonia because it is resumed in these contacts, which I do not want to say, necessarily, agreement on the concrete questions that were raised or how they resolved. Now, here we have seen, for example, the withdrawal of two remedies of unconstitutionality against Catalan laws. That's what happened, to an agreement between the two governments. The fact that we have not passed before, that we might have been able to dispose of the corresponding resources if this relationship had occurred between the two governments with the previous government. I, President, fully understand and, fix's, with respect to what you say: "We cannot make a session of Parliament as if nothing has happened. I can hear, President, and with respect, that you want to bid in this rostrum to give us your opinion on what is going on. What they do ask of them, and did so to the heart of my intervention: the representativeness of the people's assembly does not end, because they do not have it, and I never forget that the socialists are making it – I would say – as much as you do to try to make things work out well, starting with the people who will be submissive to judgment proximately. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.8.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.9.0	Yes; thank you, President, and good morning to all of you. President, you spoke of the repression that plagues Catalonia and also spoke of the general assumptions of the State to close the door to give them any support. I'll talk to him about repression now. And to speak of assumptions we already have the control session, because for us... we don't subject one thing to the other, for us there are two debates, rights and freedoms, which are not incompatible, they are complementary, they are rights and freedoms that add up, in any case they remain. The fact that we are patenting the last few days in Catalonia only makes it clear that we are experiencing a situation of democratic exceptionality. The State Attorney's Office and Attorney's Office's writings show that. The charges against Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Cuixart, Carme Forcadell, Jordi Turull, Joaquim Forn, Josep Rull, Dolors Bassa, Raül Romeva, Oriol Junqueras, as well as the rest of the members of the Bureau, among which our company Nuet is also, are not only a barbarity, they are all a democratic anomaly. It is not possible to undertake or bring anyone before the courts for political purposes. We have said this and we will always say that political problems must be solved by political means, and never, ever by judicial means. We live in grave times, times of violation of rights and freedoms, times of crisis of democracy for the judicialization of politics, and also for the politicization of justice. And yesterday we saw it again, we were able to prove it with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, and also with the Supreme Court's judgment on the imposition of mortgages, a judgment that is strong against citizenship and weak with the powerful, and that shows that, once again, by pressure, the bank wins, and so we also say that the President of the Supreme Court must resign. [[Some applause.]] In Catalonia we are ahead of a trial against political opponents. The Justices for Democracy spokesman said there was no rebellion. Amnesty International is demanding the freedom of the Jordis. The German and Belgian justices fall to the face of Via Llarena. More than a hundred professors and teachers of criminal law have also denied the existence of rebellion, and despite everything, despite everything, the prosecution continued to insist. Our position is well-known and firm: there is no rebellion, there is no siege and there is no misrepresentation. Therefore, the only fair feeling is freedom, and not freedom when the trial is over, freedom from it itself, a freedom that should never have been broken. [[Greetings.]] That is why from Catalonia we need an answer that is at the height of this historic moment, we need to apply great consensus, great consensus and great country agreements, which bring together again 80_per_cent that is in favor of the right to decide and against the repressive action of the State. And to apply these great consensuses, to talk about something that is essential in everyday life and in politics, in personal relationships in general: empathy. Empathy is not only able to stand in the place of others, it is also the ability to understand their emotions and to listen actively. There has been a lack of empathy, in the last few days, and surely this follows one of the causes of the situation of democratic exceptionality that we are patenting. Despite all the difficulties, the pain, the open wounds and the apparently blocking situation, we can begin with this basic step of regaining empathy to advance towards a new Catalonia. Retrieving empathy is a task of all and of all. And yesterday, yesterday, Cultural Heritage also marked our step towards achieving great country agreements. Political parties should take note of the dialog table, and begin to agree on objectives, an order of the day that remains transparent and clear, and also invite organized citizenship, because 80_per_cent do not represent only political forces, 80_per_cent is also represented by social forces that since cross-cutting defend and build democracy every day. And that's why we, from gatherings, will also push support motions to this 80_per_cent. We are living in an exceptional situation in Catalonia, and the extreme right rises from the world, an extreme right that has a speech of hatred and defense of exceptionality as usual for society. We have recently seen in Brazil, where Bolsonaro defends violence against opposition, but also in Salvini Italy, in the United States with Trump and we also see how the Spanish right every day speaks more of revenge and less of justice. In the eyes of any Democrat, the judiciary is not fulfilling its task of waiting for them in a state of law, and this is already having hard consequences for coexistence, because the judicialization of the Catalan conflict only lengthens its democratic solution. That is why we ask Pedro Sánchez to assume once and for all the leadership that his paper demands and to do everything in his grasp to put an end to this injustice, which only hinders the political resolution of the conflict. And in Catalonia, in Catalonia, as I said, what we need is dialogue and empathy. I understand that the situation is extremely complex, and that its parties remain reluctant to agree in the current situation, but we need to move forward in this political agreement, and I am referring to the general assumptions of the State. We have to do it for the people. We need to build a future with freedom and right to decide, and also a future without inequality and social cohesion, without inequality and from fraternity with the people below and with the people who suffer, president. A future that we can only build with the great majority of the country, facing the hatred and the extreme right, together and together before the exceptional and confident that they would not pass. President, it has not been possible to overcome the reactionary turn in Spain if we do not walk together in the conquest of civil rights, but also of social rights and democratic rights. Because it's always the same battle, it's a battle, the battle to open a new time of social justice and national recognition. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.10.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. All followed is the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, of the Ms.Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.11.0	[[Thank you. Well, you can't start today. We cannot begin in any other way than to show our solidarity with the Veins and Veins of Verges, who, once more, have suffered the impunity of the extreme right in their streets and have awakened with the municipalities full of bewitches. Hence, from here, all the solidarity and all the support for the Veins and Veins of Verges, and very clearly tell them not to pass. (Applause.)]] The sale we met the barbershop in the form of indictment writings. The State Prosecutor's Office and Attorney's Office are not contradictory, but they are complementary; they want to cover all the possibilities already considered, already thinking of the European Court of Human Rights. Let's think about what that means. To do politics and to give sight to the people is to answer with years of imprisonment. There's no rape, no kind of rape, no kind of criminal. This is said by more than a hundred jurists to recognize the prestige of the Spanish State. In its inquisitorial logic, we are witnessing a new episode of the only deliberate, structural and decided political violence that has occurred in the past few years in Catalonia, where its democratic and social majority has irrevocably always ruled non-violent lives, and that the only crime that has been committed is to protect the rights of all and from all. The only rape is institutional rape, state rape; it's revenge and it's the nature of the Spanish state apparatus. The very honorable President of the Generalitat de Catalunya has told us that he is going to accuse us. Sounds good to us already. But we can't be negotiating one day and accusing the other, because they whiten and legitimize the subject they want to accuse. Yesterday we also knew the judgment of the Court of Strasbourg against the Spanish State for not giving a fair trial to Arnaldo Otegi. That there are courts in the Spanish State that are not impartial is obvious; we know that and the European human rights courts know that. The judicial system of the Spanish State is more questionable and despicable than ever. Yesterday, however, is not the first sentence against the State. 2004: Operation Garzón against independence; first sentence of the Human Rights Court for torture against the Spanish State and the magistrate Garzón. 2011: European justice gives the right to Aritz Beristain, a Basque activist. Like many others, he suffered abuse and ill-treatment by the Spanish police; there are various feelings that condemn this State for ill-treatment or torture of Basque activists. 2012: Strasbourg gives the reason to Otamendi, who was director of the daily Egunkaria, and other journalists companies for tortures that go on behalf of agents of the Civil Guard. 2017: it confirms what was obvious, cremating pictures of the king is an exercise of freedom of expression. One rere the other, feeling that the Spanish State is totally unmasked. And it's not that we say it from here, but that it's these European courts that you also recognize. When it comes to judging the rights and freedoms of Catalonia or Euskal Herria, the Spanish justice, set up throughout its apparatus, in no doubt. But injustice is not left here. Spain's justice is not blind or impartial, it's class, nationalist and patriarchal. In case there was any doubt, yesterday the Supreme Court made it clear to us: the bank always won. It is not only a judicial apparatus that pursues those who seek democratic lives to exercise the right to self-determination, but who practices dissent, and also pursues the conjunction of popular classes and their rights. The fact that we are living these past weeks, and especially yesterday and today, respects the judgment about who collects the payment of taxes shows us very clearly how the Spanish State works. If the judgment does not please the bank, the Plenum of the Court's Administrative Litigation Chamber is convened and the change is made. Whom can I get out of it on account of carrying the spaces drawing feelings of aggression and torture, violations of fundamental rights? To a regime that feels unpunished, to a rule of natural and authoritarian heritage, to an anti-democratic regime, which, day and day, too, is portrayed, a rule that is what it is: an anti-democratic state. They lied about building false accounts; keep doing it and they'll keep doing it. Therefore, before an indecent Goliath, it will be necessary for them to find an organized David, disobeying injustice, as we did on October 1 and 3. It may return to these majorities that what they say is that they are not willing to abide by the injustices of this Spanish State, that the only one who does is to pursue the rights of the people and the rights of the popular classes. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.12.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.13.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr Torra, never miss an opportunity to try to discredit the democratic quality of Spain, convinced that this is the way. But beyond the opinion of the paid opinionators who have spread across Europe and who, by the way, have cost us a few million euros, as we have known, the reality is absolutely clumsy – it has been explained here. It turns out that Spain is one of the countries with the least convictions of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights. Only six. Italy, thirty-one; Germany, sixteen; Portugal, thirteen; France, twelve; his beloved Switzerland, ten. But it turns out we're the bad guys. The Economist – we must insist on this – points out – those are not paid by anyone, are independent, of prestige – that there are nineteen full democracies in the world, one of them Spain. We are above France, above Italy, and they value all the parameters of democratic quality. That's the reality, and you cling to a sentence for reorganizing Batasuna from Otegi. Arnaldo Otegi. He talks about that sentence, and instead omits the one he had to kidnap and torture Luis Abaitua. They forced that poor man to play Russian roulette with a gun and force him to shoot himself in his own right. That's what Arnaldo Otegi and his minions did. When we thought it was impossible to fall any lower, you quote here, as reference, a person convicted of kidnapping and torturing another human being, on the floor of his immorality, Mr. Torra, there is always one more basement. What you denounce here today with serious and affected tone is actually an exemplary separation of powers procedure. The State's advocacy has launched its approach, which can be shared or not, and the prosecution has launched its own, demonstrating independence by not submitting itself and not bending itself to the Government's approach. That's the separation of powers. You, of course, miss the times in which Jordi Pujol dictated, as we learned many years later, to Judge Estivill the sentences. That was the spirit of the Transitional Act of 6 and 7 September, which made Puigdemont or you a true leader in court decisions. You miss those times when you were throwing the masses – you want to repeat it – to press the judges, as happened in the case of Banca Catalana. And they want to take advantage of the fact that there is again a weak and dubious socialist government to do the same. A socialist government that we demand democratic firmness against the supremeist identity nationalism that we live in Catalonia. Because the problem, Mr Torra, is not the democratic quality of Spain; it leads all European standards of objective and independent listings, not of opinionators paid by your government. The problem is that we have it here in Catalonia, because we have a president who marginalises half the population and continues to call them settlers, because we have a president who constantly calls for insurrection, and because we have a president of the Generalitat who claims, I insist, a man who is condemned for kidnapping and torturing another human being. Dismiss, Mr. Torra, because here the only way that is exhausted is yours. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.14.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Sergi Sabria.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.15.0	Thank you, President. President... "Every day they keep us in prison, our movement is bigger, stronger, more credible, more invincible. The prison will be his worst decision, because it will be his defeat. The judgment and the judgment will weigh like a disgrace to the history of Spain. Oriol Junqueras, from the prison of Lledoners. [[Greetings.]] The state doesn't seem to have calculated yet the cost of this repression, of using the courts, while inventing a report to punish the social and political leaders of our country. They have made a determined bet to create pain for our families, revenge against a movement and try to create for our society. But his injustice, his harshness, has not stopped or halted the Catalan republic movement. The Spanish State will fall – and, in fact, there are already – into the most absolute contempt, and it is easy to be sure that Europe will end up cancelling this judgment, as it did yesterday with the decision of Strasbourg respecting the lack of guarantees in the judgment of Otegi. It passed yesterday and will pass again – and with much harder consequences –: the castle they have built will sink. Today, all the Catalan and Spanish Democrats, those whom we find to be missing, should be on the side of the ballot box and against a state and a judiciary that once more shows us, with its virulence, its democracy. Espanya has to lose the ballot box. A few ballot boxes representing the consent to our home, representing the consent to Catalonia. Some ballot boxes that are and will be the solution to a problem that is political. Some ballot boxes that are recognizable for those who want independence, but also for a very large part of those who do not want it: for 80 per cent of this country. Yes, sirs, we're 80_per_cent, as well as cultural ômnium. [[Widow's remorse.]] Some ballot boxes that find us and will always find us available. At the polls we won October 1st and we're willing to do it again whenever and whenever. Because that's how we want to make decisions at our house: with pau and democracy. Because we're democrats and the polls never, ever, ever do us by. They wanted to make repression their victory, and their repression, to become expressed once more in the writings of accusation, not the first step towards the feeling of our political prisoners, the writings are the finding of a defeat, of the defeat of the State. The paper that comes in to sell the prosecution is his sentence in writing. His invented report, built on false evidence and on crimes that do not exist, is the finding that the Spanish judicial system, fed by a state that does not change depending on which governments, wants to condemn the democratic will of a whole people. And do it, punishing and patiently generating people who were part of the government of this country. I to the President and to the Bureau of Parliament. And the leaders of social entities. They want to condemn them to scare them down and seal the sight of the vast majority of this people. But trying, what they do is multiply these views. Amplifying injustice, they want me to move out of our borders, where the next battle of democracy will be played. They attack democracy, fundamental rights, freedom and politics, and when they do, the State loses its legitimacy. The chosen path divides and generates a dichotomy that will end up infusing them at all. Republic or rape, democracy or repression, ballot box or prison. It will be slower, perhaps, as a consequence of this fierce repression they practice, but it is irreversible. Democracy will come to an end, because even in the worst moments we are clear that democracy always – always – wins. Who wants to live in a state that takes people to think differently, to sing critical lyrics, to write books full of truths, to tweet against the rule? Not against one, Mr. Iceta, against all – all – those who think differently. Who says you won't be next if you don't follow the line that marks the structures of the State? You're inevitable: the republic has repressed you. Luckily, at the expense of democracy, we are more and more every day. The Spanish State says with this judgment that it does not care to destroy its own right to defend the unit of Spain; it says that it does not matter the international ridiculous, the contempt of the democratic world, if it can hold the Catalans to the force, if it can guarantee the indivisible unity of the regime..., of the kingdom. The State has shown, once again, that it is absolutely capable of everything to ensure its unity, and in this, unfortunately, there are no differences between parties. And they do that because the State is not mature enough, it is not democratic enough or strong enough to talk about politics, to talk about democracy, to talk about the right to self-determination. The State has so much to do with this democracy that it has decided to bet on repression to try to retain a people that wants as much and at the same time as it decides its future sovereignly. They don't have any plans for Catalonia, and from here, they have no plans to put it to the vote. The Republic is a viable, possible, hope-generating goal, a project of change, the willingness to build among all a better society, and to do it from below, rethinking everything. The State, in change, offers repression, violence, law bite, feelings in favor of the benches. They want to put up with a people decided to decide, and they can't do it. They don't make us because they don't put up with us. It's been a long time since we've lost the por. October 1st, we self-determine, and that doesn't go away. The consensus in Catalonia to resolve conflicts is politics and democracy, the consensus is the ballot box, the consensus in Catalonia is the no to the monarchy and the yes to the republic, the consensus to the State has been and is still to keep the unity of Spain over anything else. There is no democratic culture in the power structures of this State, there is only a culture of imposition, and this question will only be resolved by negotiating and voting, never – ever – with repression. Finally, it will be the people of Catalonia who will decide what this country is to be, even if they want to start us, even if they want to hit us. They get the idea that repression does not serve them as nothing, only to generate patience. People have been in prison for a year, but in the polls they continue to gain independence, and this movement will not stop it with judgment or with a shot. The prison and exile are unravelling the 78's regime and all the structure of the State that supported it: the monarchy, the judicial system, the main political parties, the police bodies, but also the great enterprises and structures that endure a system of interests that do not want to lose their power. Yesterday we re-tested it: the bank and a supposed justice ahead of the maintenance of the status quo before the rights of the citizens. Today, independence is the only movement that is really making this 78th rule and its structure of power.Today, independence is the only possible change. Judgment and judgment will not only be a problem for the prisoner or for independence; they will, above all, be a problem for the State and for Europe. A day of condemnation – a day of condemnation – is already a shame for Spanish democracy. This trial should never have happened. Because they don't condemn a few facts: they chase ideas, they chase political opponents, and they lock themselves in jail for putting up some ballot boxes, for a democratic defeat. But democracy does not stop, neither is it jutja nor is it rushing: democracy is a tsunami that goes on inexorably and will pass over all the repression imposed on us by a State that has it. And so it defends Carme Forcadell from the Mas d'Enric. After a year of harsh repression, we are being bullied defending the rights and freedoms, and convinced that, sooner than later, truth, justice and democracy will come to an end. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.16.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.17.0	We can't make it look like we're living in a normal situation. There have been reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State claims more than two hundred years in prison. That's why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. We won't give up. [[Greetings.]] President Torrent, President Torra, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, President Torra, all the support of our parliamentary group for the measures it has exposed ; for the withdrawal of support to the Government of the Socialist Party, by Pedro Sánchez, with the non-vote of the assumptions ; for the resignation of the President of the Supreme Court, and for the entire international campaign, which I am convinced will be a success together with Councillor Maragall and the Foreign Councillor. And all disappointment. All the support, however, all the disappointment, all the disappointment especially for the parliamentary groups of the monarchy and of the 155, who today, in their parliament, had an opportunity – an opportunity that Ciutadans had, that had the PSC and that had the People's Party, and they let it pass a little more – to show a little of humanity – a little. We saw that disband after the entry into prison of the investiture of the Jordi Turull, which you liked to rise up and look at the faces of the families, the relatives..., prisoners. And we see one more time here in the Parliament of Catalonia her inability to act humanely before Members of this Parliament, who are Members of this Parliament, as we approved. If Mr. Reventos or Mr. Pallach raises his head, he'll put his face in shame! [[Greetings.]] It was the shame of the Socialist Party handed over to the Spanish State against freedom, against human rights and [[remorse of the voice]] against civil rights...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.18.0	Quiet! Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.19.0	And do not entangle us, Mr. Iceta, do not entangle us. The problem is the whole justice system. Yes, I can threaten, Mr. Iceta, I can threaten. [[Widow's remorse.]] We know they have the prosecution to threaten, Mr. Iceta! You know that. [[Funnel veils]] May they have the prosecutor's office, to threaten!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.20.0	Shut up, everybody!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.21.0	But the problem is the whole justice system. And while you, who are at the head of the Spanish state government, allow these things, this system is all a democratic fraud. And that is what would be asked of him and asked of a progressive party, because he goes here and speaks: "No, a Parliament chosen by the people, etc. Do you know how many Members of this Parliament, out of 135, were democratically chosen and how many have had to fold? And you think this is real democracy? [[Greetings.]] You believe that it is real democracy that of all the Members who had to take possession... An elected Member, Councillor Mundó, who folded before taking possession; seven Members who had to give up the escho, five Members and two Members: Clara Ponsatí, Lluís Puig, President Forcadell – a president of a democratic Parliament in prison to let speak in a democratic Parliament – Marta Rovira, Constellera Bassa, Consteller Forn, Meritxell Serrat, who had to fold. Look at what democratic results they accept... what state of affairs, how democracy guarantees, isn't it? Oh! Five of which, of these deputies, are in prison! And the other two because they're in exile, because if they don't want to. Five are in prison, asking for a lot of years in prison. And more than that, we have four Members of Parliament here in Catalonia, who are prosecuted, such as Lluís Guinó, or Mr Joan Josep Nuet, or like Lluís Salvado and Josep Maria Jové. It's all very normal! [[Greetings.]] It's still very normal, that here there are twenty-five deputies who took the record and are all prosecuted or imprisoned or exiled! Great normality, that of the Spanish State and the one that you offer. And look, yeah, we're 80 per cent. We are 80_percent who already know that there will be no justice; we are 80_percent who already know that everything is the same, that all his injustice is the same. We are the majority of Democrats who each time feel more questioned, each time feel more ashamed before the performance by the Spanish State. The prosecution's charge is unfair – the prosecution's charge is unfair – and if they can't get to freedom by slowly entering the court, it's also unfair. And it's unfair for the content, because it's a content that goes against the right of assembly, against the right of demonstration, against the right of political democratic action, against freedom of expression. And it's unfair because they're chasing ideas for a bunch of facts. And now, yes: they come here, Mrs. Arrimadas, such as this, and we give them for convictions. The separation of powers exists in the Spanish State, yes, yes, yes! But they're already condemned. Yesterday Minister Calvo said: no, no, they're all convicted, they've committed crimes... And that's right, that's what politicians know, huh? The deputies, Mr Rivera, etc., all that they know, that you can't ask for a pardon, but we already give them for sentences. This is the great separation of powers in the Spanish State. And it's still the same. It's still the same injustice. Justice is now the army, the same army of year 78. From the remorse of swords we have passed to the remorse of robes; from the time of military state to the time of justice. And that's right: the king – his king – always in the middle of everything, defending and covering them and covering them, as he did on October 3. Miri, everyone knows Spanish justice is being questioned. And the case that sets the most example of all is that of President Puigdemont, who was judged by Germany and how they did not like what they gave... Yes, yes, it was presented before the German justice, and how the Spanish State did not like it, how you did not like what the German justice says, who said there was no rebellion, no siege, no public disorder... And as this doesn't please you, they're so democrats, so, then, we withdraw the extradition, it's not like I have to come here and it's not like I can be president of the Generality of Catalonia again, that this would put them in a huge way. [[Widow's remorse.]] This is his democracy. Yes, yes, they do – they do –: they do, because we, in a new republic, never ask for life is that what is passing on to us passes on to you. [[Greetings.]] Because we all have to be the same, and everyone has to have the same rights and the same rights! And there is the right... to political, ideological and freedom of expression. Look, the same court that decides on our democracy and our political leaders is the same court that decides on behalf of the bank. There are many of us who have already decided to pass the page. Mr President, the Catalan society has finally broken with the Spanish State. The opportunities you have, the Spanish State, have lost them. We've already seen that there's no difference between the 155's tripartite: between them they're defending, as Mr. Borrell defends, as..., they're defending their shames. "How long will a people have to suffer for lack of freedom? How long will the man turn his head, pretending you don't see anything? The people of Catalonia already see clearly, and see that freedom is called the Catalan Republic. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.22.0	Thank you, Congressman. Once all the representatives of the parliamentary groups have spoken, it is the return of the Government, and in this case, the return for Vice President Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.23.0	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President of the Generality, Councillors, Councillors, intervene to make the reply on behalf of the Government, as permitted by the Rules, despite the fact that the Members of the City do laugh; although this, we shall comply with the Rules, [[relays]] And so I'll do the reply on behalf of the government, even though I don't like it. Mrs. Arrimadas has begun, she says: "They come to talk about the usual. No, no, Says: "They have not spoken of salvation, nor of teaching, nor of the situation of the functionaries... We will prove that you also continue to speak of the usual, and soon in the oral questions to the Government we will see that you continue to ask for the always: about external action..., about the use of languages in schools. They didn't come to talk... then, at the government session, they had the opportunity to talk about doctors, about how you'd work, but you still have the monotheme. [[Some applause.]] Certainly, we could talk about teachers and how you would function, and we could take many more measures if you did not agree, from the Congress of Deputies, to limit, by putting the rule of expenditure, participating in this consensus, the ability to use the resources of the Generality of Catalonia, if you also allow the increase of the floor of deficit, and therefore more resources for the year you go to attend to the needs of the citizens of Catalonia. But let us go to the intervention, to which he has motivated the words of the President of the Government of Catalonia, that it is the political denunciation of the accusations that were made public by the prosecution and the Advocate General of the State, in a context of absolute abnormality, in a judicial procedure that is politically, totally– totally–. Because what is judged to be political events. And there are political events on the part of a dome, a judiciary, which is constantly questioned. In fact, he himself questioned; in fact, Mr.Iceta said that we persisted in trying, therefore, to denounce the prestige of the Spanish State and of Spanish justice. In fact, he does the same thing supreme: with his day-to-day decisions, he'll sink his prestige. He said the President of the Generalitat has come here to defend Mr. Otegi. No, he has come here to publish the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of Strasbourg ; not Mr Otegi : European Court of Human Rights of Strasbourg, the one from which it seems to Mrs Arrimadas that there are feelings in which in two there is question that there is no just trial seem to be few. To me a single feeling seems excessive, a single feeling motivating me to take action. Measures such as, for example, the refusal of the Government of the State... to sign Protocol 16 of the European Convention on Human Rights so that the courts can consult the European Court of Human Rights in advance if, at the request of one of the parties, they believe that there may have been some violation, in order to avoid – as is permitted, for example, with the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of Community law – that there is a setback, a correction. But it seems that this measure is also worth planting. We're not in a normal setting. We are not in a normal setting because here what is produced is not a claim of impunity for political prisoners, because here impunity, when there is a pre-trial detention that is dictated on the basis of a crime of rebellion, is not a claim of impunity for the political prisoners, because here impunity, when there is a pre-trial detention that is dictated on the basis of a crime of rebellion that its material author, the author of the re-election of the crime of rebellion in the Penal Code says that it did not occur, when the jurisdictions of other states where the proof of the party has passed has come out well black, because this crime of rebellion has not occurred, and that it is for which they keep them in pre-trial detention and that is why the judge Llarena dictates the suspension of his exercise of deputies... Who has impunity, therefore, is the justice of the Spanish State, that has kept them in pre-trial detention; who has only judicial defence. A preventive prison that, if it continues, will prevent there from being a fair trial, because it will prevent the ability to defend; days of trial in the morning and late, with transfers from the prison, with transfers in unacceptable conditions, without the ability to defend, in which between the transfer and the presence in the trial it remained in some jails that would not pass the proof of the quota of the Protocol faculty of prevention against torture, because they do not have external opening, that there are only a few outsiders at the door, painted all of the same color... This is not the right of defense. For much less, the European Court of Human Rights has dropped the judgment in the Betaragune case, which concerned Arnaldo Otegi. The impunity of the leaked reports of the Civil Guard, which we see before in the communication media of what is being investigated, of what is being misled, of which..., right? As far as the pesigolles are concerned, even before the defences at parliamentary level are concerned, journalists know that they are concerned. And then you've served... It does serve some words that I suppose are very good for your fictitious relationship, when you talk about "commands, these supposed commands led by the President of the Generality." But I'd like to talk, as did CUP MP Nattalia Sánchez, as she spoke, about these commands that turned out to have gone to Verges, right? "Long live the Civil Guard – I suppose they have to count it as an assault, that's what," "I don't obliterate or forgive the strikers," "We're all Spanish, insults to the president, insults also... It turns out that a banner of "We need a school addressed to the Generality," so it's also the fruit of his anger. These commands you don't report. That's weird. Report them, too. [[Greetings.]] And then you go on with your report, which says, "It's probably the people watching TV3 that don't know, and I guess when they say that they do it for people that don't watch TV3, right? Because they think TV3... And I think that these words should be deleted, this less continuous to the professionals of the public media in Catalonia, especially when with the last data it is seen that the party that occupied the most time in the telenews precisely of these public media that the second you are so painful was your party, and in the State as well was the People's Party. I therefore believe that these words should be deleted for journalists from the media in Catalonia. Mr. Iceta said that Catalonia is not an oppressed country; we could discuss it. He says: "There is a parliament, and there are some deep loops, Mr.Iceta. There's a parliament, yes, but there's big loops. There's a parliament, yes, but the results of the 21st of December... they can't access the escho all their deputies. There is a parliament, yes, but the candidates for the investiture cannot come here, denying the previous jurisprudence that there were when they were convicted of terrorism. [[Greetings.]] He says that the President of the Generalitat cannot speak on behalf of the people of Catalonia, that in any case he must do half of the voters; but when the President of the Generalitat speaks of the need to finish with preventive detention he can do so on behalf of half of the voters of Spain, because it turns out that at the latest published in The Journal of Catalonia he says precisely that half of all the citizens of the Spanish State believe that preventive detention has to end, it has to end for our companies and companies that are charged with the crime of rebellion. In fact, 47_percent of the voters of the PSOE and 30_percent of the voters of the Spanish State agree. I suppose all these must be the ones watching TV3 and Catalonia Radio, right? , Mrs. Rimadas. God-in-law, the voters of Ciutadans at the level of the State that also..., or the buyers – or the buyers – are the purchasing opinioners that the Government of Catalonia has, and I tell you that the assumption of the Generality is not to buy 30_percent of the voters of Ciutadans at the level of the State. And 81,1_percent of Catalans consider that they should not be in pre-trial detention. Mr. Iceta says this is from a frac of politics, and the question is, do you want to persist in the frac? Is it necessary to persist in continuing to fail? – and it doesn't look like it. So that should translate into facts and, therefore, change the line that the Rajoy government maintained, change this repressive line, and reverse it. Because, obviously, what you've come up with is not a reversal of this line, it's not a reversal, because they assume reports that you know..., because you had mayors and mayors on October 1 that you may not have voted but that you were seeing what was going on in the college, some of which are faced with police operations, who know that there, that you know that what happened there is not what the Civil Guard writers who take over the State Attorney's Office and Attorney General say. Therefore, we agree, it would not be hot to persist in the fracàs; tell it to Mr. Sánchez, to Mr. Pedro Sánchez, that it does not persist in the fracàs of the repressive path of Mariano Rajoy. And you have been talking about events here in Parliament, assuming that they are illegal, in any case, of a possible crime of disobedience, that does not come together in respect of a crime of rebellion, that does not assemble in respect of a fine, thirty years in prison or twenty-five years in demand for Oriol Junqueras. And we disagree. It's not going to start from scratch in this trial, for as much as the defenses do all the work, because that's it, because when you're in pre-trial detention, when you don't have the ability to defend, when you're eight hours in front of a court and you're going to have to go back to your cell, going through the National Court cell, where you can't talk to your lawyer to defend yourself, here's not starting from scratch. There won't be equal conditions. And what would be good is that we don't wait for a judgment of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg that a few years from now tell us there wasn't a fair trial. We are already acting, because the actions are impartial and fair, that until now have not been, Mr.Iceta – they have not been. [[Greetings.]] They have not been, and fixed's you, who said: "Justice is to be criticized, yes. We have often done this, when we do not like it, and it has set an example of the criticism you make to the Supreme Court in the case of decisions, these years and revenges, self-corrections, judgments dictated, automatically corrected without appeal from the parties – this, to the Organic Law of the Judiciary I do not know where I am, frankly, nor to the Court of Appeal of the Administrative Litigation, which seems to me to be the one that applies the case – and says: "Then you must act. And we'll be acting from the Congress of Deputies. So perfect, they see the way. Why don't they act from the Congress of Deputies in the case of our companies and companies who are accused of rebel crime? Is this not so important? Is this criticism not so honest, is it not so honest? I'd like to think so. Therefore, they also act, obviously, because the judiciary is not alone, the judiciary is not winged and, obviously, has to apply what the laws say. When you say the laws precisely..., you say: "Politics make the laws, legislators make the laws and judges interpret them. But when precisely – and he said so two minutes ago – the Member who later was a senior member of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol and a Member of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, who wrote the article in the Criminal Code referring to the rebel, says that what happened is not a rebel, so it turns out that there is someone here who is misinterpreting the laws, between them a state attorney general who endorses the accusations for up to twenty-five years in prison. And say it's an error to sweep it with the general assumptions of the State. What's wrong is trying to confuse people. What is a conscious error – therefore, a conscious lie – is to say that it is necessary to approve the general assumptions of the State to increase the minimum wage, when this can be approved by decree; and I refer to the later increase in the minimum wage, for example. What is a conscious lie is to say that the general assumptions of the State are lowered so that they arrive at the funding resources that correspond to Catalonia and that they increase as they increase to the rest of the autonomous communities, in strict application – restrictive, more – of the Law on the Financing of the Autonomous Communities. What is not certain is that it is based on the general assumptions of the State for arriving two tenths more, external, of authorized deficiency, because it is based on the Law of Presuppositional Stability, and not on the Law of State Presuppositions. Therefore, of these 2,200_millions that you say will arrive in Catalonia, how many of these 2,200_millions are only for Catalonia and how many others are related to the increase that the rest of the autonomous communities will have? Because I'm telling you one thing: if these 2,200_millions were a decision that you only benefit Catalonia, were excluded for Catalonia, your Socialist Party barons from other autonomous communities have already raised their hands complaining, as they do whenever there is a bilateral agreement between Catalonia and the Government of the State. Therefore, this perfectly demonstrates that this fallacy of 2,200_millions does not hold, Mr.Iceta. Deputy Albiach of Catalonia in Comú... we agree with what she has expressed, the government agrees with her, and we think we have a lot of way to go. We agree that we can build big consensuses, these 80_per_cent consensuses. And we wouldn't like to stay in the eighty: we want to get to the cent_per_cent, we want to get to the cent_per_cent of citizens in Catalonia. But to that 80_per_cent who is in favor of the right to decide I also add that 80_per_cent who advocates for the fir of repression, who denounces the present monarchy as the structure of the rule that governs us. Therefore, we agree to work in this 80_per_cent that went much further than the voters of Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana, the CUP and the Commons, went further; there are also voters who support these ideas in the 155th part of the House. Therefore, we support this 80_per_cent idea, we greet with complete complicity the Cultural Initiative and, I insist, our project is for the 100_per_per_cent of citizenship too. And we agree that we must face the extreme right, and precisely because of this we have set up an office of civil and political rights, precisely because of this the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra does its own actions, not because of the extreme right, by right, but by extreme, because of the violence with which it acts, because of the violation of the property, the violation of the public space that causes this extreme right. And make a call to empathy and to agree on the terms of the debate. We have an opportunity: November 16th, found with all parliamentary groups; we hope that all will follow. Mrs. Arrimadas, we hope, there will be a fall for you, as you have always been, and we hope that you will want to speak with the rest of the parliamentary groups and with the President of the Generality and with me. Open to talk about everything, therefore, open to work in the order of the day, to be able to include all proposals. For what it does to the intervention of the CUP, we obviously agree with what it has exposed itself to. I believe that the record of the different convictions of the European Court of Human Rights in the Spanish State has been very timely. In fact, of the six convictions of the State last year, two have been for not having a fair trial; of the thirteen of Belgium, one. So, when someone sometimes makes a comparison, huh? Let's see exactly what the convictions are. And a European justice that has corrected the two great elements that seem, today, to support the fundamental principles of the judiciary in the Spanish State, that are the unit of Spain and the benefits of the financial markets, and the two have already corrected them and will continue to correct them. The Court of Justice of the European Union has repeatedly done so with the clauses only in mortgages, we are convinced that it will do so also in the case that was corrected this past week, and the European Court of Human Rights has done so on various occasions and, if there is no correction before, it will also do so in the procedure that follows against our companies and companies. And let us reiterate the need and believe that if we take seriously what the European Court of Human Rights says, then I turn to Mr Iceta for a proposal which is: tell Pedro Sánchez to sign Protocol 16 of the European Convention on Human Rights and allow, when some judge has a doubt as to whether the application of the law of the State affects human rights, he can consult this court and make future corrections to us by the Court of Strasbourg. And we agree, Mrs Sánchez, that the accusation was built on a false report. Congressman Alejandro Fernández, of the People's Party, says President Tora does not take any opportunity to attack Spanish democracy and the judiciary. Mr. Torra, in this case, has an absolutely disloyal competitor to do this, because the guanya per goleja, which is the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court does not lose any opportunity to question itself and question the legitimacy of the Spanish judiciary. Of this legitimacy that they question what you say in opinion to me, that it must be the Belgian jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of Scotland, the jurisdiction of Germany, the European Court of Human Rights... Go, I don't know that..., I don't think that we have so many people on the payroll, to the Generality. And you, taking the sentence of yesterday, of the European Court of Human Rights, which has set as an example the President of the Generality, concerning Mr Arnaldo Otegui..., has already made, therefore, here..., takes, therefore, a marginal question, in fact the center of his speech. And he speaks of: "Immorality, of torture... Do you know what an immorality is? That Mr. Zoido keep the medal to the police merit Billy the Child, a torturing recognizable during the time of the franchise. Do you know what an immorality is, talking about torturers? That a person accused of torture is laid, precisely, in the case of Urra, the northern years, the Basque Country, as in the case of the police operation to carry against the schools October 1st: Mr. Pérez de los Cobos. Let me remind you, that you put in front of an operation, when you had priors for torture, that is an immorality, Mr. Fernández, that is an immorality. [[Greetings.]] The deputy Sabria and the deputy Batet, of the Republican Left, of the Republican Group, and of Juntes for Catalonia, obviously the government shares, we share his position. It is true that, the most fundamental and least evolved elements in these years of Bourbon restoration from the Francoism: the monarchy and the dome of the judiciary, are in continuous delegitimization. And we face this disjunct of republic or repression, a republic or repression that we believe..., this disjunct, that we will only overcome by calling the consensus of the 80_per_cent with those that we had previously commented on with Congresswoman Albiach, of Catalonia in Comú. Therefore, it is through these great consensuss that we will acquire democratic strength in this country to overcome this disjunctive, a disjunctive that can only be overcome on the basis of democracy, recognition of everyone's rights. A disjunctive of republic or repression, which clearly explains..., is clearly explained when, at the opening of the judicial year, the president of the General Council of the Judiciary and president of the Supreme Court say that: "The ultimate foundation of the state of law in Spain is the unit of Spain. Not the rights of the citizens, not the division of power, no, no: the unit of Spain. Therefore, the state of law that some defend, is not a state of rights, in Spain. It's not a state of rights, anyway it's just a state. State and state unitarism. Mr Batet has, obviously, explained clearly the problems of the judicial leadership. We agree that we are in an extreme anomaly, that when we call on this Parliament we cannot cover our eyes before the abnormality that supposes these deep loops, before the abnormality of what these deep loops mean, that is that our companies and companies are in prison. And we cannot hide the eyes when they are not respected, by the judiciary, when the division of powers by the judiciary is not respected, in trying to influence the results of 21 December. Therefore, the Government of Catalonia will continue to commit, as the President has said, committed to the political solution, to the political dialogue, to remove the political causes of the courts and put them in a political negotiating table. We have three divisions: freedom, absolution and self-determination. Three 80_per_cent consensuses, which we are convinced we will achieve. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.24.0	Thank you, Vice President. Now it's the turn of parliamentary groups again, five minutes for each parliamentary group. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.25.0	To request compliance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 90. Here the appearance that takes place today is the one that regulates article 172, and we have requested it in the Board of Spokesmen, that we adhere to what is provided for in article 172.3, which is exactly what this Spokesman has requested in the Board of Spokesmen, article 172.3 says: "First, I intervened the President of the Generalitat. Then, parliamentary groups, for a maximum of two minutes, can ask questions. Then he says: "The president responds, individually or jointly. Do not say the Vice-President, say the President. And we want that, since Mrs. Arrimadas has asked a very concrete question to the President, that he does not... that he does not run away, that he does not run away from study and that he appears and answers, and that the Rules of Parliament are complete. In fact, this is not the case, as far as Article 172.3 is concerned, and what is done with the President's appearance, which is what runs the article and which is what we have expressly asked of the Board of Spokespersons. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.26.0	Mr. Carrizosa, the president asked for the appearance, appeared in the first instance and then, on behalf of the government, spoke to the vice president of the government. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, please, if you'll just let me finish arguing. The Vice-President spoke on behalf of the Government. There is now a five-minute turn, again, for the parliamentary groups, for each parliamentary group, and after, obviously, there is the control session, all questions that the president thinks are appropriate can be asked again. We continue with the debate..., if you consider that the Rules have not been observed, you have every possible life, as you usually do, so that you can claim, if you consider that your parliamentary rights have been violated. Now we're still on the table. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, for a moment, Mr. Rodriguez... we're still on the table. In the first place, obviously, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans will have the word, for five minutes, but before, Mr Rodríguez asks me the word. Why ask me the word, Mr. Rodriguez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.27.0	Indeed, for a question of compliance with the Rules in relation to the question raised by the spokesman of the Ciutadans Group. If the substance of the debate is in agreement with Article 172.3, which should have intervened is the President of the Generality, or in any case, the Vice-President may have intervened, in the absence of the President. We understand that the article you are applying to this debate is precisely this one, 172.3, because you are holding a five-minute time to parliamentary groups, which is actually what Article 172.3 says. On the other hand, we believe that, as the Vice-President has participated in the presence of the President, it is not the reply to the session requested by the President, but that it refers to Rule 85.6 of the Rules, which allows any member of the Government to intervene. And therefore, the regulation of the debate should be different. We believe that it is important to determine the quality of what article the Vice-President of the Generality spoke to, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.28.0	Yes, Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.29.0	Also, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because this morning we held the Spokesman's Meeting, I have the letter of request of President Torra, and says: « To the man who establishes Article 172.1. Therefore, there is no interpretation. The same president asked for his appearance, according to this article, and therefore, Mr. Torra had his speaking time, on the subject that he wanted, so we decided on the Board of Spokespersons, and Mr. Torra was asked concrete questions, on behalf of the group presidents. Therefore, the groups have the right and they have the obligation to respect Parliament's Rules of Procedure and therefore to answer, if not, the questions that have been transferred to them by the chairmen of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.30.0	I insist that I have already answered Mr. Carrizosa. As the debate has arisen, in fact, I think we will remember and recover the actions of the Board of Spokespersons..., it has already been commented that the Vice President's serious response. Anyway, we're still on the table... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And you, in any case, if you later want to claim the one you think is opportune, you will claim. [[Long break.]] Anyway, with the intervention, Mrs. Granados, if you'll let me talk, please? Yeah? All right. With the intervention of the Vice-President, by delegation, obviously, of the President, it is understood that the President resigns on the second return. In any case, we can ask the President if he will desist from using this return, which is his right, and it is also the right of any member of the Government of the Generality, to intervene at any time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, at any point in the debate... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] [[Pause.]] I repeat again, and with this we will finish and continue with the debate. With the resignation of the President to intervene in the second round, the Vice-President intervened. The Vice-President and any other member of the Government may speak at any time during the debate. And that, obviously, opens a turn of phrase, which is what we'll do next. Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.31.0	With regard to this issue, Mr President, and to say that it seems to us that the interpretation that at this time you are doing is correct, and therefore the Vice-President's intervention has occurred in accordance with Rule 85.6. Therefore, it is not that we continue in the debate on the President's appearance, but that we now have a debate on the President's intervention. Because we believe it is important to make it clear that the President of the Generality did not want to answer the groups in this Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.32.0	Yeah... now it's... [[applause]] , is the turn of the groups, for a time proportional to the intervention of the vice president, who intervened for twenty minutes. Therefore, it is three minutes per parliamentary group, and one minute and a half per parliamentary subgroup. Yes, ma'am Sirvent?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.33.0	That we already have for a very short time, the parliamentary subgroups, when they were five minutes and they were two and a half, already with two and a half we were already just; but if now three of us go to one and a half..., with a minute and a half, practically, we can say good morning and return to our sister... I don't know if they could have a little consideration. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.34.0	That's the way it's been... not just the way it's been, but it's what you say, normally, and if we observe the Rules, we observe it in every sense. Therefore, parliamentary subgroups have a minute and a half and three minutes parliamentary groups. It is the return, in the first place, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mrs. Arrimadas [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Three, three minutes. Madame Arrimadas, you have three minutes, when you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.35.0	Thank you, Mr. President. What a shame, Mr. Torra, what a shame! Besides, I was thinking one thing, it's not only that you don't want to face it; it's not only that you don't want to face it, because I guess you won't trust much in your ability to replicate it, but yours cover it up. How little do your people trust in you, who help you not to face! [[The joker laughs.]] What a shame... [[Some applause.]] How you have degraded the image of Parliament, the image of the presidency, that you are going to Waterloo to receive the orders. That Parliament closes three months, that you have not submitted yourself in three months to a monitoring session, that now comes here and comes out with your written text, that I don't know who wrote it, reads it and sits down, and gets the vice president to answer. Shame on you, Mr. Torra. And you talk about dialogue? Talk to me. Dialogue here in Parliament. Then he invited us on the 16th to a meeting, so, in secret, where no one can listen to him, where you can't see his little..., I don't know, his little desire, not to say anything else, to answer. A debate on the future of Catalonia here in Parliament, with you and me and the rest of the presidents debating, without time. [[Greetings.]] Come to Parliament. Don't hide. Really, you don't... you're not just not looking at it, but you're being helped to cover it up. How little yours trusts you. I'd worry a lot, Mr. Torra. Well, with this time that we have left, you come here, I insist, to make your story, your story that Spain is very bad, nobody wants us in Europe, when the only ones that have no international support are you. And you also come from Otegi's defenders to lie. Mr Sabrià said that Otegi's sentence has been overturned. [[Sergi Sabria i Benito says: "I was wrong.]] Ah, well, perfect. [[You're looking for money.]] You're wrong, perfect. I'm very surprised that a Member of the Left said that. Otegi's sentence has not been overturned. Otegi has not declared himself innocent, Otegi's sentence has not been overturned, Spain has not been condemned to compensate Otegi. Stop lying, stop lying. Spain remains a democratic country of the European Union, which you do not even know what it is, because when you design your independent republic, you design it by choosing judges, and saying that the decrees law have no control. Stop dreaming about the lie of the process, which are alone in Europe. And I really do ask you a question again. I know that Mr. Torra does not answer, they do not even want his own answers: What will they do when the sentences of the trial arrive? What are you going to do? What are you encouraging Catalans to do? What are you going to do? A demonstration? Or do they want to attack courthouses again? Or do you want to assault Parliament? Or do you want to stop the Catalan economy for a week, as Mr Junqueras said, huh? That Mr Junqueras, the moderate, proposed to stop the Catalan economy for a week. What are you going to do? Are they so brave as not to say this? His only proposal: "Let's..., uf, let's bind the one when the sentence comes. What are you going to do? What are you going to do? And, above all, when time passes, weeks, months, years and that independence does not come, what are they going to do? How are you going to look your voters in the eye? When you have loaded Catalonia, families, when you have missed many opportunities, what are you going to do? I know you'll think: "Well, we'll have a lot of chiringuitos, we'll plug ours, and who day passes, any empeny, won't we?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.36.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.37.0	Because, in total, by charging in chiringuitos... but, what will happen when time passes? What will happen when you have achieved nothing good for Catalonia but the opposite? Shall I tell you what will happen? That you are not going to have impunity, as no citizen has it on foot, and you will submit to what the judges say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.38.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.39.0	...like any citizen. And we, who know what it's like to face up to nationalism... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.40.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group Unites pour Avançar, of Mr.Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.41.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, I really don't like to lose a second with the regular questions, but, president, you asked me to compare, exceptionally; they waited five minutes before closing the register to say so. We thought you wanted a debate. He didn't fly it. All right. And for that, I'm responding to the vice president. What he also said: « I come out to answer 'ls. Vice President – you will forgive me – I have only asked one question: what will you do? If they don't accept the sentence, what does that mean? I've only done this. All the rest were considerations. We follow without an answer, I think it's obvious why: because they don't know, and they have all the right not to know what they're going to do, huh? Us, accept it. We don't have any more remixes left. Sure. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, calmly, no, but accept it. With... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, but how judicial resolutions are accepted. You're living in a contradiction. Yeah, yeah. It is manifest before you that they depend on you. Don't they think that's a little contradictory? [[Greetings.]] And for that matter... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But not just that. You see the contradiction... – and since you don't want to intervene, you don't do it from your bait. [[Greetings.]] You see from the contradiction that there have been Members of your group suspected – suspected – who have accepted that their functions continue to develop for others, and some who do not. We live with this contradiction, we don't store it. But if it's obvious! And so I don't want to ask you to tell me something you don't know, but it would be good if you said, "We don't know that. Because you say, "No, it's that if an 80_% wants it, they absolve them. But the judicial system doesn't work that way, neither here nor in any other country. We're still aware of that. I don't tell him that he's good, that he can't criticize, or that he can't say he's rejected. It can be rejected, but there is no more reason than to abide by the decision of the judiciary in a state of law. And I understand that you don't like them, but that's why I liked them a lot more and that's why I wanted to evoke the statement of a lawyer who says, "It's going to start from scratch in the practice of oral judgment. I believe that in the best interest of the people who will be submissive to judgment is this approach and this attitude. On the issue of mortgages, President Sanchez will come out of here and say what he intends to do. Mr Vice-President, I hope that you will put more emphasis on defending the generality's presuppositions on the importance that they are approved. No, because if the States aren't so important, then the Generalities why should they be so important? I mean, one has to carry raons. On the subject of Protocol 16, Miri, you said to me: "Tell President Sánchez... I will do so. You could tell the vice president, with whom you are often and can comment. But from all angles, let us not deceive ourselves: this country of ours is divided, it is paying the price now, I believe, of important political errors, and perhaps also of an incorrect judicial practice. Can we just describe the situation without deciding what we're doing to move forward? I don't think so. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.42.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can now be the turn of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.43.0	Yes, thank you, President. Vice-President, I would like to stress once again: we do not subject some rights and freedoms to others. Freedom, right to decide, fought against inequality and social cohesion; therefore, dialogue, empathy and fraternity. I was talking about the 80_% consensus, you aspire to 100_%. I'd like that. I take the word from him, but I have to tell him that until now the erratic path they have carried has not been as simple as reaching the consensus of 80_%, but they have carried a path that has done, instead of expanding, instead of expanding, what they have done has continued to increase these consensuss of 80_%. So, I take his word and hope that it doesn't happen again. And I'm going to tell them again: at the table of the 16th-day dialog, there shouldn't only be political forces; social forces should also be gone, which are also part of this 80 or 100_% that we want to get to, and that from its transversality every day they build democracy. More things. Vice President, we agree in the fight against repression. We have a system that is ill, we have a justice system that is politicized, we have a policy that is judicialized, we have independent leaders in prison, we have rappers and tweeters prosecuted criminally, and we also have Franco-tortorts, corrupts and members of the state's locksmiths walking quietly down the street. And that's why I'm insisting on it, and that's why I'm insisting on it: we won't get over this reactionary turn in Spain if we don't get out of this democratic crisis walking together to the conquest of civil rights, democratic rights, but also social rights, and that means money to eradicate inequality. And since you insisted on talking about assumptions, I'm also going to talk a little bit, even though it wasn't my intention today. Only three observations: the presuppositions of the State are not the presuppositions of Pedro Sánchez, nor are they the presuppositions of Pablo Iglesias. It is the assumption that the demands of the people of the 8-M; of the people..., of the locators who are painted, who do not arrive at the end of the month and who cannot pay their locator; of the pensioners; of the workers who can not even arrive at the end of the month with the minimum wage that there is now. Therefore, the assumptions are not those of Pedro Sánchez, they are those of the people who need them. Secondly, they say they don't support the assumptions, but they do support some measures that might be good for the country. Once more, contradictions. They don't support assumptions, but they're open to talking about other things. So they say one thing and they do another. And in the third place, they say that there are fears that they could pull forward by decree and that there are no assumptions. They know that they can be stuck at the Congress Table, which is in the hands of the right, and they also know that they are the first social assumptions after two years of crisis and detail. If they are not approved, neither will the Generalitat be able to make social assumptions for Catalonia, nor the assemblies will be able to improve their financing and will continue in solitary and without sufficient instruments going forward with the public service. For all this they ask to reflect, and they also give courage and courage to Pedro Sánchez to lead this democratic fate that Catalonia needs. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.44.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of the Lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.45.0	Well, we were flying, as fast as we knew. On some considerations that have been said, remind them that when we speak of the "State apparatus" or when we speak of the "Spanish State", we do not speak of its execution. And, besides, who can think that a man or a political party can change the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain? What you think this is is that it has no understanding of the 78th Regime, it's that it doesn't understand that the State is the communication machine, it's the power machine of the IBEX 35, it's the machine of all and each of the different powers. And in this sense we also want to say that we, in this sense, are not sitting on November 16 in a table that we think they want to do is to close up what we have opened down, is to close the public debate on the right to self-determination, and therefore the CUP will not participate. And, Mrs. Arrimadas, "will the days, the weeks, the months, and saps pass what will happen? , that the por will change the bandol. And there will be a worthy people who will exercise their rights, because the right to self-determination is a fundamental right, it is a right that we will exercise as many times as anyone else, because they do not do us because of their constant threats, because we have come here to do politics, not to threaten their courts that engage innocent people. And today, finally, we also remember that what we want to do is complete the break that we started with the force of October 3rd, with the force of the working class, because this country will only be what its people want it to be. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.46.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia is the turn of Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.47.0	Yeah, from the seat. Well, Mr. Batet has once again put forward a strategy of emotional blackmail by which our firmness in defending the rule of law would turn us into people lacking humanity. Look, there are thousands of remand prisoners in this country, thousands, not just politicians. They also have suffering families, not just politicians. Among those thousands there will be bad things to do, but it is also possible that there are some good people who made serious mistakes and that is why they are there, because they considered him a judge. I am not in a position to say whether imprisoned politicians are all good or bad people – that, everyone can have their opinion – but I am in a position to say that they have repeatedly mocked judicial requirements, and that is not a joke. And I am also willing to say that everyone here has to assume their responsibilities. What you can't claim is that we have to solve the problems you got into knowing perfectly, and that, if we don't, then we don't have humanity and we're bad people. No, you have to grow up and accept what has been done. That is also what democracy is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.48.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mr Sergi Sabria's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.49.0	Mrs. Albiach in her intervention demanded courage and courage from the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol. We do, too, but we want to reproduce a few sentences yesterday. « His colleagues are in prison for having committed crimes, Carmen Calvo, Vice President of the Government, yesterday to the Senate. Without judgment, and already sentenced for a vice president, sentenced for the government and sentenced for the state. No judgment and no presumption of innocence. A state without answer, a state without proposals, a state against democracy that condemns without judgment. And to remind the honourable Member of a few oblivions: the contempt of Spanish justice is absolute, and you forget the repeated sentences of the European Court of Human Rights against Spain, forget the Greek report, in which the Council of Europe makes it clear that the Spanish State has done nothing to end a corrupt system. To remind him of Ciutadans' vote in Europe, in fact Ciutadans' forbearance in Europe when he was talking about Feixist foundations that also included the Francisco Franco Foundation, and they abstained. And to remind him, and surely this is the most important point, that this is a parliament, that this is the Parliament of Catalonia, which here is spoken with respect, to everyone, also to President Torra, who is not here to treat Catalans as if they were abducted or as if they were imbeciles. Respect the citizen, respect the journalists, respect the institutions, respect the criteria of cadascú, and rather paternalism, that all we are great; their voters, but also ours. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.50.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. And finally, in the turn of groups, it's the turn of Mr. Albert Batet, on behalf of the Junts Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.51.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice President, well, to make some allusions..., Mr Alejandro, « good people, eh? ; « Good people like Lord Villarejo, no? ; « Good people like Mr. Barcenas, no? These are the good people you defend from your pre-trial detention. Miri, from the fact that I think you're good to remember. One, Mr. Iceta, when Mr. Sánchez was in charge of the opposition made a great announcement of reform of the Criminal Code, not because the rebellion was not there, on the contrary: when he was in opposition, Mr. Sánchez announced a reform of the Criminal Code to increase the crime of rebellion before the independence challenge. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no, no, this is the reality of you – this is the reality of you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.52.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.53.0	That Spain deceives, that they deceive, that they say one thing and do another, that they say some things and do some other things. This is his way of doing and being. Another fact: when Mr. Raventos was Speaker of Parliament, and Mr. Rigol was Speaker of Parliament – now that I am not feeling any of the PSC or the People's Party –, when some Members, for whatever reason they were, could not be, all parliamentary groups were conjured up to respect the majority of democratic elections, as there was on 21 December. This is the missing PSC, which respected the outcome of the 21st of December, of the elections. [[Greetings.]] This is the missing PSC. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, look, you're very obsessed with what's going to happen after the feelings, aren't you? They're very concerned about what's going to happen after the feelings. I humbly, with the experience I have with these years as mayor and here as a deputy, can tell you something about what will happen after the sentences: that it will be united, united to the Parliament of Catalonia, united as there was the 1st of October and as there was the 3rd of October, united between political forces and civil society, and this unity is what will advance the Catalan Republic. And that's what he's doing for you, and that's why we're trying to make this unit stronger, before his repression and before his feelings. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.54.0	Thank you, Congressman. After this debate, we continue with the order of the day, and in this case with the second point, that are the questions with oral answer to the Government of the Generality. [[Ask the Government about the contract program of the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families]] [[310-00057/12]] The first question to the Government is about the contract program of the Department of Work, Afers Socials and Families. The formula of Mr Bernat Solé, of the Republican Parliamentary Group. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.55.0	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that it is difficult to ask this question when, in a normal situation, you should ask the Lower Councillor, for whom today there is a petition of seven years in prison. [[Greetings.]] And even harder, they see the insensitivity of some parliamentary groups from this chamber today for her and for the rest of political prisoners. Honourable Councillor Chakir El Homrani, on October 11, 2007, this same Parliament approved the Law on Social Services, through which a new framework for coordination, cooperation and collaboration was established between the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families and local authorities. The social and territorial diversity of the 947 municipalities of our country makes it necessary to have a tool that guarantees equal care to all persons in special need, under the criteria of co-responsibility between administrations, transparency, fairness and the optimization of services. The signature of the programme contracts between the Government of the Generality and the local councils or towns of more than 20,000 inhabitants ensured their funding and provided the necessary multiannual character to the social policies of our country. The economic recession experienced in the past few years has assumed, in a sense of doubt, important adjustments that have limited the performance of these basic services. There are many people still living out of poverty, in vulnerable situations or having difficulty dealing with basic needs. The inequalities that still exist today and the new social realities that result from this situation force us to equip ourselves with the tools that allow us to give it an answer. Throughout the presentation, and note that at these times the program contracts for the period 2018-2019 are being signed, what is the commitment of this government and concretely of the department that you encapsulate with the assemblies and local councils, and which will be the tools that will be implemented so that these inequalities still today cease to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.56.0	To answer the words of Mr. Chakir El Homrani, Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.57.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. You started the intervention remembering Constellera Bassa, and I will have to remember it, because part of the novelties that we are explaining are novelties that the Constellera Bassa worked and that she could not explain, that she should have been able to explain for these dates of the past year. Mirin, what we have done: first, we have increased with almost 100_million euros the commitment that had been acquired in 2016 around the 2016-2019 program contract. It had committed 826_million euros and we will end up devoting 915_million euros. It's a very clear bet. It is a very clear bet vis-à-vis the capillary and the work that the locals have done, a recognition of their great work in these very complex years in which we have suffered a crisis situation and, what is more important, a crisis situation has occurred to the citizens and citizens of this country, the most vulnerable, and the first area where these citizens and citizens have been treated has remained in the area of social services, and especially the basic social service teams. This is why we are introducing a novelty, already worked since 2017 for Constellera Bassa, which will allow, when we complete this program contract in 2019, and already in 2018, to increase with more than 850 professionals the teams of basic social services; a key element, a key element that also introduces the figure of the management, which was a demand made by workers and social educators, workers and social workers. We are also working – and in this line there is this reinforcement around the teams of basic social services – the whole line of preventive work. Preventive policies are the best policies in social matters. That's why we place a bet around the socio-educational intervention service, preventative work between zero and divided years, which makes a very important increase in which is the investment in infants. We also make a very clear bet on equality policies. And lastly, we place a demand on all locals, we sign a biennial addition that allows us to have a much clearer planning of all requests and all resources...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.58.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.59.0	...that they will keep the locals at their disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.60.0	The next question is... [[Ask the Government about the draft law on equal treatment and non-discrimination]] [[310-00058/12]] ... on the draft law of equal treatment and non-discrimination, and in this case the formula Najat Driuech, of the Republican Parliamentary Group. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.61.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, the application of 155 led to more than a hundred normative initiatives being paralyzed, and now the Generality is in the pocket of recovering them. Among them, numerous bills that had already begun to be debated in this Parliament, such as the Advance Bill for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination, which was presented to the 2017 generation, but which expired with Article 155. This bill of law meant a considerable advent for him to fight to eradicate any type of discrimination, regardless of whether or not there was a specific law. He also assumed a paradigm shift, recognizing that dealing with non-discrimination with specific laws for unprotected collectivities is an essential and necessary step, but that it is necessary to advance in the creation of a tool that protects against all discrimination and strengthens the specific laws. From the Republic Group we are compromised with the construction of a republic of free citizenship, which ages for the general interest and the common good and fights situations of privileges and discrimination, a country built on the basis of effective equality and non-discrimination, without head for an intolerant attitude, already by reason of gender, race, ideology, religion, age or any social condition. For this reason we find it essential that this law is recovered for equality of treatment and non-discrimination, because we have a law that will give effect to equality between people, if it does, applying just sanctions to citizens and administrations that do not respect cultural, social, gender or political identities. For this reason, counselor, and for all the talk, the Republican Group would like to ask you what is the government's understanding of the bill for equal treatment and non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.62.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Family, the Lord El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.63.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Last week we approved the government council's bill for equal treatment and non-discrimination. This law basically has an objective, a very clear objective: the eradication of any expression that attempts against the equality and dignity of people. Work to ensure equality, whichever is your identity, ethnic, religious, ideological, political, sexual orientation, gender identity; ensure equal treatment and non-discrimination with a law. Let's explain what an umbrella law is, because we're also located. Not only with the express laws for the expressed collections that we have, and which must be complementary, we can address the full reality of equal treatment and the fight against discrimination. That is why we also want to say: this does not mean that we will not continue to develop the Law against Homophobia or the Law of Equality donate-home, but that what we want is a law that gives support to all situations in which discrimination can be given. We place in the law an aspect that is key, which is key for us: that administrations are not neutral, administrations have obligations and obligations to protect and respect identities is key, and we want to place it in the law and we place it in the law. We have a basic law, because we are aware that in this Parliament, among all parliamentary groups, there has to be a strong debate and there has to be a strong consensus. This type of law needs consensus, it needs joint work, and we hope that from what results from parliamentary work we end up with a law with a lot of consensus and that they allow us to ensure equal treatment and non-discrimination at all times. You didn't feel like building a company without securing that element. And, if I may, I do not want to finish this answer..., finding that we found ourselves yesterday with a clear example of what this law should do, that it is not to allow death threats for ideological thinking, as happened to the Director General of Equality, because from the Administration we have to set an example, because if we want vulnerable people to report, we have to do it, to ensure equal treatment and non-discrimination for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.64.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about teaching policies]] [[310-00059/12]] The third question is about teaching policies, and it is formulated by Mr.Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.65.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, could you evaluate the conclusions of the document« Language model in the education system of Catalonia in relation to the level of castle in the most Catalan-speaking areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.66.0	To answer the word the Councillor of Teaching, Mr. Bargalló. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.67.0	Thank you, Mr. President. The document you are referring to is the completion of the Catalan high school, its compulsory studies, with a level of linguistic competence of català, castella and a third language as required by the European reference mark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.68.0	To answer the question, has the word the deputy Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.69.0	Thank you, President. Well, the truth is that you voluntarily or involuntarily made an important contribution, and it is that you have opened a debate that until now was absolutely taboo, that is analyzing with facts and criteria a little more objective the results of immersion and not turning it into a sacred thing that you can't just talk about or think about. It is true, for all that you have paid a price for these claims; now it is part of the list of botiflers that hyperventilates plant. Welcome to the club, we'll deal well, I assure you. In any case, we see Catalonia as an anomaly in terms of democratic quality. There are three models basically to be able to manage the confluence of various languages in a community. There is the system of two lines, of freedom of choice, which in the end is, you say, "segregator, which is what is done with materials to the Basque Country; it is trilingualism, which is what we defend, and it is the immersion that applies to Greenland and Catalonia." The problem is that here's the only place where you can't even talk about the issue. As I was saying before, it turns into a botifler and anticathala whatever I think it is. We know today that the success model wasn't so great. Some, intuitively, we already had it very clear, from the moment we knew that some of the great convergent hierarchies – certainly, that they signed the Koiné Manifest – defend immersion for others but, curiously, they take their children to trilingual schools, do not have to have so much confidence in this supposed model of successful immersion. And time has given us reason. There's a feeling... you have most of the parliament to do the immersion, that's right; but there's a judicial feeling talking about 25 percent. We defend a trilingual model, but we don't have a majority here. But the feelings have to be completed. You said it was a barbarity, and now data gives us reason. Let's start applying the common sense once and for all, among other things, because if something positive could come out of this absolute disaster that the process has been, it should be possible to start talking about things without turning the disagreement into an enemy, objectively appreciating. You have to recognize that immersion in certain areas of Catalonia has been a round break, and you yourself have had to accept that you have begun to take steps to correct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.70.0	To answer again, the teacher's advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.71.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman, I'm not worried about the qualifications. 2004 The Reason made a cover that said I was a great enemy of the castle. Or, from here on out, I can assure you that I care very little about the cave of any type about my linguistic thoughts. But beyond that – beyond that – ours is a model of linguistic immersion, linguistic conjunction and multilingualism. This is the model of the Catalan school. It's what's happening now – it's what's happening now –: immersion, conjunction and multilingualism. This model that is being made now, that it is a model, more than anything else, that of course it has to be put into debate, everything that happens to the school to always put it into debate; the school has to improve it always, and it is only better from the debate. But the debate sees that the success of unquestionable and recognizable linguistic immersion across Europe, starting with the OECD, is a success that if it does not fit at every moment the social, cultural and linguistic reality of society will end up being a failure. How we want the success of yesterday's linguistic immersion and the success of today's linguistic immersion to be the success of tomorrow's linguistic immersion, so we go into debates about how to face the backs of every moment because our school, our students come out competent in català, in castle, in English, and we still have a harder back, a little in a fourth language. If you agree with this, you'll find us; if not, we'll throw it back the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.72.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Catalan school model]] [[310-00055/12]] The next question is about the model of Catalan school, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Lluís Font.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.73.0	Thank you, President. We cannot see that we live in a normal situation: there are reprisals, exiles and political prisoners, to whom the State asks more than two hundred years of imprisonment. That is why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. Linguistic immersion is a great activity of our country. Having listened to what I have heard, I think I want to make a recognizance of the linguists, of the pedagogues, who, inspired by very advanced pedagogical models, in their moment they designed what was linguistic immersion and helped him evolve. I'm thinking about Joaquim Arenas and Marta Mata and many other anonymities that have made their contribution. I also want to recognize the work of thousands of teachers who, at all the country's schools where they were supposed to do it, have put it in practice, enthusiastically, overcome difficulties, with perseverance. And in the third place, and much less important, the policies of various parties in the government and in the opposition that have supported this model, which, although they disagree in other things quite often, here have established a consensus. And that consensus, what's the point? So that, among other virtues, the model of linguistic immersion contributes decisively to avoiding discrimination by reason of language to those infants and young people who have grown up in environments where there is not spoken often or people català. If you didn't have the language immersion model in school, you would hardly finish your studies with the right skills. And freedom, even to sort in which language and you want to relate, is based on being able to sort; if you only know your own, you will hardly practice it. Therefore, linguistic immersion declines with various things: with social cohesion, with recognition of diversity to seek an inclusive spirit and with equity. Counselor, you as the highest educational authority in Catalonia, who presents and what future do you see in this model of Catalan school? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.74.0	To answer, the word has the advisor d'Ensenyament, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.75.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, the only possible future? You're making it better. This one, to improve it from this consensus that today has been felt, 80_per_cent, huh? , as the vice president said, with the will to be the cent_per_cent. To improve it, the Catalan school, from precisely these three elements to which you refer: the cohesion, the recognition of diversity, the struggle for equity and the work for excellence. These are elements that have defined the Catalan school, which I, moreover, deeply appreciate the recognition that it has made and to whom it has made, to important teachers who at a concrete moment have been firmly committed to this model that in language is based on immersion and is based on immersion, but that immersion is not just a linguistic model, it is a model of cohesion, and it is a model of non-segregation, obviously, and it is a competitive model, or it is now a competitive model when at that time it wasn't because we weren't talking about it this way. And the reference to Joaquim Arenas and Marta Mata, but I also appreciate the reference to the whole faculty. That is to say, the Catalan school model, which has many problems; the first is the endemic funding deficit of the Generality, which is a first problem. I mean, we don't have the money we should have with the country to invest in school. And that's a first problem. That we've been able to overcome, all the problems you've had, thanks to the teacher, the teacher, the teacher, and the teacher, and to their professionalism and their willingness to do just that, huh? , to work for cohesion, for training, for equity, to work competitively, to work for the student, to know that the student is the subject and object of education. And that our system, it's a successful system, and it will be because it places the student in the object and subject of the learning process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.76.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the external action strategy]] [[310-00056/12]] The next question is about the external action strategy and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr. Francesc of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.77.0	We can't make it look like we're living in a normal situation. There have been reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State claims more than two hundred years in prison. That's why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. We won't give up. Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Councillor Maragall, whenever we address you we have a record for Councillor Raül Romeva, every night he spends in prison is a night we don't have to sleep with the Democrats in this country or with the world. We haven't talked enough today with the indictments we met last week against political prisoners and the rest of them. It is confirmed that the Spanish State, and specifically Spanish justice, is a European abnormality. That it is an abnormality in the European context we know because while exiles are free men in Europe, so we find that our political prisoners are hostages of the State. In parallel, your councillor has been coughed up and obeying the 21st of December mandate, with the re-opening of delegations abroad. How did you face this stage of the dam? The fact that the knowledge of international recognition will once again be essential to denounce the violation of rights that we suffer in Catalonia. And, in this sense, what role do you attach to international mediation at the present political moment? Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.78.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, Mr. Ernest Maragall, External Affairs Advisor, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.79.0	Thank you, President. Yes, Congressman, with a lot of taste. In fact, the President just explained this same morning in his first speech. And, in fact, it's the same thing that I said myself on many different occasions and that, ultimately, I repeat now with absolute conviction: mediation is necessary and if at some point it is necessary now; now surely even more. Let me make it clear, without the sum of political pressure and mediation we cannot afford the democratic victory that will involve the recognition of the international community. Now, at the door of the trial against... let's face it, it's a trial against the Catalan democratic majority, huh? This is the judgment we face. In the face of this judgment, I believe that international European intervention is twice as necessary to prevent the abuse of injustice and to put us to a democratic solution. I believe that mediation has two sides: to ensure the search for a political solution, effectively; and, on the other hand, to ensure that if there is a political solution the State would complement with its side, with its compromise. But I think we should add some more things to this media. Now, in the international presence camp, will we need the direct intervention of European justice and the United Nations to deny and compensate for the continuing aberrations of Spanish justice? Will we need the presence and participation of international observers in the judicial process that will begin shortly? And we will need direct pressure from institutions, parties, governments, civil rights associations to force the State to accept and agree on a scene of democratic decision-making. Because there is mediation, they tell us very often in Europe, they have to ask for both parts. I say to him: "The Spanish Government cannot not ask for a mediation, cannot not want a solution, work for an agreed solution. I believe that outside of Spain – I do not believe it, I say it –, that outside of Spain I have found no one who wants a democratic solution for the Catalan question. They listen to us, ask us how it goes, they are alienated that the promise of dialog that has formed this new government is no longer in deployment, is no longer in progress. They're really surprised in that sense. As President Torra has just explained, the government works with unity of action on this goal and will work even harder and with the utmost effort from now on. The formulation of the charges on the part of the prosecution and the state's attorney have led us to the evidence of the vast majority of society against repression and in favor of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.80.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.81.0	...of the democratic way to decide our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.82.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about external action]] [[310-00053/12]] The next question is about external action and the formula, in this case, Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.83.0	Mr. Maragall, I suppose you read the news and found out that last day 31 we presented a writing to the prosecution, which is this [[the speaker shows the document to the chamber]] , denouncing the expenditure of €65.000, in an American lobby that left a connection, that you yourself gave it to us after many requests and asking for protection because you did not give us this documentation..., and there are a lot of calls to senators, congressmen, the Department of State and the American media during the months of September and October. We believe that the money that was spent was made for illegal purposes and that it is an embezzlement like the cup of a pine tree. Can you deny today in this Parliament that you have been misled by this American lobby?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.84.0	To answer the word has the Maragall advisor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.85.0	Yes, of course... – thank you, President – naturally, Mr. Carrizosa. Anyway, I just didn't hear this from... I don't know if you're obsessed or out of respect for the normal foreign action of the Government of the Generality and the Department of Foreign Affairs. Don't you want Catalans to be represented the best way out? They don't want it to be with maximum power and maximum efficiency and maximum relationship and...? [[For technical reasons, some words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] But, finally, the answer is given by you yourself in the motion we are debating in this very House, when you literally say that what you want is to dissolve what you call 'ambassages and Diplomacy'. He asked the government to dissolve. I mean, in his delusional anti-action exterior, they claim that the government applies a 155 to itself, huh? , that self-managed a 155. Miri, we're not, are we? I assure you that the young man will not prosper and that will not happen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.86.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.87.0	Mr Maragall, remember what you said to the gentleman who asked you earlier: you told him that you were going to do a whole series of outside action to speak ill of the Spanish courts, to internationalize the subject of prisoners, for everything, you told him; but you did not say that it was to do cultural action or economic action for the benefit of all Catalans. So don't come to us now with stories! The delirium? Yours. You have said several times today: "I accuse – I accuse. I accuse you of spending 65,000 euros of all Catalans on something you're not answering what it was. What were those efforts? Were they for the recognition of independence to be proclaimed on October 27 of last year? Was that what they were for? Is that what we paid them for? Would you spend your money, out of your pocket, €65.000 or whatever? But no, of course, from his pocket not; from all Catalans it is much easier. « Other people's money I kick at my parties, in the process. Look, you know what I'm telling you? That you are increasingly being highlighted in Europe and in the world. We, you know what we did? To denounce the corruption and lies of the PDECAT, the party with which you govern, in Europe. And you know what happened, does it ring a bell about what happened in Europe, does it ring a bell about what happened in Belgium? They were expelled – they were expelled – by corrupt and liars; Mr. Tremosa, who went around telling lies in Europe. And what I'm telling you now is that you, with this thing you're doing in Catalonia..., we're also going to get, in the end, you Catalans to throw you out, because you're lying all the time. Lying and spending other people's money on other things is a form of corruption, and they will also be called corrupt. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.88.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.89.0	Thank you, President. Look, the contract you're referring to is at your hands from more than a year ago, and the information contained in this contract is published – we told you about it months ago – and it's published and loaded, because it's required to be on the Foreign Registration Act website of the United States, so it's at your disposal from the first day. It's pinned, published, and recognizable. Miri, I'm telling you clearly, huh? : you are applying to parliamentary action the same prototype that judges and prosecutors apply to the political persecution of our political and social representatives. And they encourage him, this legal action, sending to the D.A. anything that goes through his hands. First set the conclusion, false, to which they want to arrive and then build the report, equally false, equally filled with lies, because you allow them to offer a certain appearance, equally false, of reality. You're still acting like the armed arm of Judge Llarena, of the Spanish judiciary. Our playground is the democratic will of the citizens; its is repression and judicial persecution. Our language is dialogue and negotiation; its is confrontation and provocation. Neither will they win in this land, I assure you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.90.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the use of language at school]] [[310-00054/12]] The next question is about the use of language at school, and the formula Mrs. Sonia Sierra, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.91.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. Most Catalan families want a teaching in Catalan, Spanish and English, and only 14.4_per_cent of Catalans want the current model of linguistic immersion. Here there is a consensus, not 80_per_cent: 85,6_per_cent against linguistic immersion. What do you intend to do, Mr. Counsellor, to ensure that all students study in three vehicle languages, as most Catalans do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.92.0	To answer the word, Mr. Josep Bargalló, Counselor of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.93.0	Mr President, the Catalan school language model has regulations, has a law that makes it very clear and that cannot be changed if the law or regulations are not amended, which this department does not intend to do. Therefore, three vehicle languages, according to this narrow concept, are not and will not be. They are not and will not be, as language teachers of the teaching, because the law at this time does not allow it. But as you were at the presentation of the language model and left in the middle, you should have heard what the model we presented was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.94.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.95.0	Counselor, you do not intend to do anything, it is clear, to guarantee the three vehicle languages, because you are the government of the Koiné manifesto. What you want is a marketing campaign, like the act it refers to, to hide that you can't teach in Spanish, to hide that you haven't trained teachers so you can teach in English. And you are the government of the Koiné manifesto, but above all you are the government of political chiringuites. [[Widow's remorse.]] Every time they open their mouths, political chiringuito to the chant. And now you want to create your own body of inspectors, because you don't have enough to name the 80_per_cent of the inspectors, who now wants their own body of political commissioners. Because you don't want the inspectors to make sure there's no indoctrination in the classroom, no: you want them to check that it's not going to be that some teacher is thinking of giving some Spanish subject. You, while sanchism looks elsewhere and refuses to give resources to the state's high inspection [[remorse of the voice]] , you want to create your own body of inspectors and you also intend to put families to monitor the linguistic projects of center; those linguistic projects of center that you put me in writing that were all on the web pages and that was lie, for a change; those linguistic projects of center that you refuse to give me, even though I have the backing of the Bureau. When do you plan to give me the center language projects? Look, you don't want to give me the center linguistic projects because you don't like to have a democratic opposition that controls you. You don't like the control session, that's why you mount these performances that you can mount before so you can hide the one. What you would really like, really, is for the control sessions to be in Waterloo; there, you with yourselves. But remember one thing: even if they live very comfortably with ‘sanchism, here in Catalonia who won the elections has been Citizens, and we are going to work so that all students can study in three vehicle languages, as they do in private schools. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.96.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.97.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Congresswoman, I know the private school model is hers. [[Give me the applause.]] I have assumed it – I have assumed it –, I had no doubt about it. Miri, the Department of Education [[Funnel veils]] It's not the Great Germ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.98.0	Mrs. Sierra, you've already asked.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.99.0	The Department of Education is not the Great Germ orwellia that you would dissipate if you ruled, it is not. Therefore, it is a department that believes in the autonomy of the center, that believes in the freedom of the faculty, that believes in the critical experience of the student. For this– for this–, for example, when we talk about the inspector's body we're talking about the LEC and completing the LEC. The inspector's body is in the LEC, voted mostly for this Parliament. And a thing of inspectors would allow a more transparent inspection access than what we have without it. Therefore, the bet for an inspector's cos is, as you know, but you will never admit, a bet for transparency. At a time, centre linguistic projects are an example of centre autonomy. Like we're not the Great Orwellian Germ, we don't have the three-thousand projects locked in a dump... No, no, they have the centers, and they validate the inspection, and the only thing we want is for them to validate the inspection. As we don't have them and you do have them, and we agree that they do, we have asked the centres to run the language projects on their web page, because you know them all, and you know them too. This petition was made at the beginning of the course. It was done, our petition to the centers, following your request, that pengessin..., was done at the end of the course. I would have started giving him the list of those who are already there, and soon we would have given it more, and soon we would have given it more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.100.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the charges in the Supreme Court proceedings against sovereign leaders]] [[310-00052/12]] The next question is about the charges in the Supreme Court's proceedings against the sovereign leaders, and in this case it is made by Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.101.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Vice President. Yesterday we learned about the change in the Supreme Court's criteria on a judgment that was theoretically firm: the judgment that affects mortgage taxes. Today, the Supreme Court has gone from protecting citizens and consumers to protecting the big bank. And the great argument given by the Supreme Court is that this is because there is a strong social and economic impact. Well, this one-hundred-and-a-half-degree turn has been argued with this argument that I want to retain. You know that Catalonia is a plural country; here are all the ideas they think about the future of Catalonia. Obviously, ideas that are peaceful and democratic, and we don't have to share them all. The only thing we have to share is that they all have the right to express themselves freely to our society. Therefore, it is clear that we have been struck by the prosecution and state counsel's indictment reports in the process that the Supreme Court wants to judge the sovereign leaders. And we were impressed because we know that today the state's criminal action is eating politics, Vice President – the state's criminal action is eating politics. And we will not allow this criminal action to turn the Supreme Court case into a real general case against sovereignism, because, obviously, what it would do is to nullify political action in a total and absolute way. We do not know, Vice-President, whether the Supreme Court, too, in this case against sovereignism, will take into account its strong social and economic impact and, as with mortgages, will make a turn of one hundred and forty degrees; we do not know whether it will do so. And the question we ask him is very simple: will we have justice, vice president, or will we only find revenge? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.102.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.103.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, we will work because, obviously, there is justice. And justice means the acquittal of all the defendants for the Supreme Court and for the National Court in the two cases that were known to the indictment writings of the past divestment. A number of indictments that stand out in a judicial process in which there is a clear contrast – and you have underlined it in a very timely manner – a clear contrast in which, when it is related to allowing the right to vote, when it is related to allowing parliamentary debates, in the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and expression, here apply criteria, a completely unknown legal interpretation until now, in order to pursue these rights, because one of the elements that forms the cornerstone – said for the same president of the Supreme Court – of the Spanish judiciary, which is the unit of Spain. In change, when the bank's returns are in question, then the impact does force it to correct and correct in a very clear way. We consider the writings presented in the past to be extremely difficult, in the first place, because it makes a narrative of the facts that is not in absolute correspondence with reality. They do not correspond in absolute and everyone who was present on October 1st, in the legislature, you know; everyone who was, on September 20th, before the Department of Economy and before his candidature for Popular Unity, we know. Secondly, because from here it builds a legal architecture intended to build a supposed crime of rebellion in which they manage to qualify parliamentary debates, the political agenda of the Parliament of Catalonia, as "rebel plan". Political debate is a ‘rebel plan'. And thirdly, it is extremely difficult because it consolidates a lack of guarantees in this process. A lack of guarantees in all the evidence that has been dismissed during the investigation, tests solicited for the defenses and with the preventive detention of the main defendants, in some conditions that make its exercise of the right to defense impossible. Therefore, the government will work because there is absolution, we will do it politically, obviously, so, here we are not the judiciary, but obviously we will also work because this decision is before this procedure ends and we cannot expect a judgement of the European Court of Human Rights to correct the wrong decisions of a judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.104.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about sports policy]] [[310-00050/12]] The next question is about sports policy and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.105.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor Artadi. In Catalonia there are more than seventy sports federations, as you know, that join nine thousand sports clubs, and with more than six hundred federations. A very important, very large collection, with a very important territorial implementation, but also with many sports disciplines, some unknown, but that at present has a great concern for a series of problems, some, stop from the economic crisis and the problems that are due, but also others, some problems arising from some management that has not been done by the Government. The 60_per_cent breakdown of the subsidy assumptions for federations since 2010, for a band, and then the delay in paying these subsidies for all 2018 and part of 2017, which today makes it impossible for them to charge more than 8_million euros, has made any of the situations of these federations worse. He will advise, when will the pending subsidies of the sports federations of 2018 be paid and what remains of 2017 and why hasn't these aids been paid yet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.106.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, has the word Ms. Elsa Artadi, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.107.0	Thank you, President. Allow me to add myself to my company's complaint, that we cannot see that we live in a normal situation, there are reprisals, exiles, political prisoners, that the State demands more than two hundred years in prison. That is why I also accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the case, the release of all reprisals. We won't give up. Thank you very much, honourable Member, for bringing the topic of sport, in this case of sports federations, to the plenary, to give it the importance that sometimes we do not give it away. The concerns of the sports federations of our country, which has perfectly described the importance they have, are also being addressed. Indeed, there have been setbacks, and there has been uncertainty, which has caused concern. Yesterday, on Tuesday, the Català de l'Esport Council has already published the proposal for a provisional resolution which includes sixty-nine of the seventy-three Catalan federations, their imports and their subsidies, and at the same time we sent a letter to all federations explaining that we will have the final resolution, which will come after their acceptance, and the payment defined during the month of November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.108.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.109.0	I think we need to congratulate all the prayers because after I was tricked by the government to know what question we would ask and what we would claim the subsidies, in twenty-four hours they activated all the procedures. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, it proves that it was a management issue and, in any case, I am glad. We will all agree that the practice of physical activity and sport, apart from a great tradition and implementation at the conjunction of the Catalan society, has important benefits for health, education, cohesion or the economy, among others. We must try, among others, to get sports policy to the 100_per_cent of the population, and also to the 100_per_cent of the Members who are here. And among the sports sector, federations and clubs have a role to play, recognized at international level. But the truth is, as I was saying, the years of adversity, plus the failures of this government, have made them in a very critical situation. To give an example, the Union of Sports Federations has had to mortgage its own so that it can help some federations that are waiting for these subsidies. Therefore, we believe that, first of all, what is a recognition and thanks to the effort made by federations, clubs, families, coaches and all the sports collection of Catalonia many years ago. Also from the plenary of Parliament, as I said. And above all, concrete requests: three. First of all, we want to do the work and complete the commitments, which is the demand we make to the government. I need to pay the guild grants as soon as possible because we're already late and there are many entities that can't keep the farms from growing. You need to recover the 60_% shortcut to help them and call a multi-year program contract...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.110.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.111.0	...as the tripartite had done for such a... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.112.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, you have the word "adviser."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.113.0	The subsidies were unlocked on October 26th, so it's very good that the question is now, because we can talk about it, but the unlocking is before you ask the question. The subsidies, the year 2016, were 6,6_million euros; last year, 2017, which were paid on time, it was 8,3_million euros, which helped us to have a novelist of the Conseil Català de l'Esport who was able to make this enlargement of almost 2_million euros. This year the grants came out for €8.6 million, so more than last year, and 2 million more than two years ago. And, in part, to have to be changing the money chapters to be able to make this enlargement is what caused the rise. Faced with the coming year – I suppose it will celebrate, as well as we do, the news – what we have done is, in order to relieve us of these difficulties and this concern, we will bring out calls, which will come out early during this quarter, so that you can pay during the second quarter of 2019 and there will be no such concern, neither to federations, nor to clubs, nor to impact, nor to school sports through sports councils. Therefore, the issue, it is certain that there has been a concern, it is certain that it is resolved. We're celebrating that we might be talking about it here, even though you don't have to see it with your question. And, in view of the coming year, we've already put in the mechanisms so that we don't get through again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.114.0	Thank you, Counselor. The next and last question to the government is about health policy... [[Ask the Government about health policy]] [[310-00051/12]] ...and the formula Mrs. Assumpta Escara, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.115.0	Thank you, President. They cannot really consider a normal situation when 5,700 professionals of the primary care of this country are forced to make a call for a vacancy. Previously at this vacancy call they met with the management of the ICS and their own management the recognition that there was a problem, that there were lack of professionals and that much of the Catalan health system is efficient because the salaries of the workers are the lowest in Europe. He also told them that it's not up to him, that it's up to the Economics Council. That is why, Mr. Vice President, with your double condition of Economy and Health, I ask you if you have planned to lead an answer and address the problem that the professionals of primary care in Catalonia have at this time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.116.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.117.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, we are aware of a situation that has been reddening for some years now and, obviously, therefore, we have been working for many months to find solutions. Let's solve in different axes, in the adequacy of professional seedlings to reduce above all the full mass agendas that are in the primary care centers that forces a delay in the time to attend the patients in the programming. Secondly, we will continue with the measures to promote contractual stability, and this month there have been calls for opposition. Thirdly, we will continue to promote the autonomy of the management of primary care centres, bring them closer to the care area and promote the reorganisation of the teams that allow us to improve the personal, work and family reconciliation of our professionals, who are making a big pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.118.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.119.0	Thank you. They'll push, they'll do... the doctors have reached the limit, the retirements aren't copper, they extend their day, they're frozen, and the DPOs aren't copper. They claim it a thousand more in the territory. Twelve minutes of attention per patient, not the five they have now. And more management skills. Do you know that primary care is where more early retirements are given? Where can a sick person hold up to four degrees for a while, which breaks what is the basic principle of primary care? Do you know that the so-called Enapisc, the plan to turn the system around, the professionals have already abandoned it by inaction and, moreover, the gap between reality, resources and political discourse has become more evident? They and the professionals have endured the system during all the detail and struggled to give the best assistance, there are types of chips on the board, they give it to the call today. They can't wait for a year of debates and commissions, which is what they've proposed to them at the Forum of Professions. They just missed feeling that the extra pay that is due in 2013 and 2014, to the entire public sector, will be charged by the year 2026. Can you imagine, Mr. Vice President, how these professionals feel and what calendars they think will be yours to recover the 30_per_cent of the son they have lost during these seven years of retailing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.120.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.121.0	Yes, thank you, President. Member of Parliament, since 2015 a work has begun, started with Councillor Comín and continued to do so Councillor Vergés, recovering expenditure in the field of health. At this time, this year 2018, we are at 90_percent of the resources that were destined for salvation before the retail and with the new premise of the Generality, so we have to fill this missing space. This very week, in the city of Gràcia, the Emergency and Primary Care Centre will open a new facility to reposition the most urgent needs in the city; last week with the Mayor of the Hospitallet – which you, therefore, know well – we were able to make a visit to the new Primary Care Centre of the city of Santa Eulàlia. The professional summit is important because it is to listen to the professionals and incorporate them in the search for solutions. And I'm not talking about some solutions. The first is that the Government of the State allows us to increase the wage mass that is expected and that, therefore, we can have the flexibility to make a major return of rights. Secondly, that the Government of the State should raise the limitations on the recruitment of staff in the public sector of the Generality and, therefore, we can have more capacity for contracting in the health field. And for what it refers to the extraordinary payments of 2013 and 2014, we call on the State to make the expenditure rule more flexible and, therefore, to leave out of the expenditure rule amount the amounts that are referenced in return for these payments. If it is, I have no doubt that we can do it faster than it was announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.122.0	Thank you, Vice President. You're going to ask the government. Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the Government's response to requests for prison sentences by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Advocate General of the State and on a possible move towards autonomy]] [[317-00029/12]] The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Crida Constituent, Mr.Deputy Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.123.0	Thank you, President. President, the proposal to sell the Spanish State accused us with more than two hundred years of imprisonment as a win for the referendum of October 1st with indictments in favour of the Orwellian dystopia of 1984, today made for the achievement of the rule of 78's hand. We have not seen any political responses from your government that go further than the announcement of the refusal to support the general assumptions of the State or that go further than their statement of intentions and principles of their intervention this morning. Can our prisoners and prisoners, our exiles and exiles, our right to self-determination be a currency of change in the debate or the market on the institutional stability of the State, the Catalan autonomy or the Barcelona Assembly? We don't think so. Is there not an exceptional response from your Government, and will it be at the height of the defence of democracy in Catalonia before this state of anti-democratic exception imposed for the Spanish State in Catalonia? A real and effective legal policy response that initiated the removal process from the 78th Regime in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.124.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.125.0	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Actually, I think that in the debate that took place this morning, it exposed the situation in which we find ourselves, that it's the experience of living the intolerable, isn't it? And in this idea of living this intolerable, how we react, as the Catalan society, politically, socially, economically, as our entities, as our political parties are able to live this moment and are able to face these moments. I now seem to have been sufficiently explicit at the time to compromise the government with a series of actions. All the way, I want to wait for your counter-response to finish explaining my own.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.126.0	Thank you, President. To answer that question, the Member has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.127.0	President, I ask you a very clear question about the previous ones: does your Government have the possibility that the act of democratic self-determination of more than two_million people in the reference of '1 October drifts and degenerates into a new state pact in an autonomous reform clause? Are the agreements that they are reaching with the Government of Spain in the new framework of bilateral relations changing from waivers to self-determination? President, in view of the events, do you think you've heard of a dialogue and a pact with a state that wants to punish more than two million people to defend the right to vote? With a state that defends its democratic precariousness with the systemic violation of civil and political rights and violates the fundamental rights? How does your government plan to release political media and guarantee the return of exiles? We believe that the only possible way is civil disobedience and unilaterality, the sovereignty of the Catalan institutions, the construction of a new popular and democratic institution, the recovery of sobrieties that allow the guarantee of basic social rights, permanent mobilization and, from the total respect to what the sovereign unions decide, the general vagueness, the exercise of the right to self-determination and democratic rupture...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.128.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.129.0	...with the 78th rule as a result of democracy... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.130.0	You have the word, to answer again, the president. Forward, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.131.0	Yes, Congressman. It's just not a step back. This government can't afford it. There are no steps back, in this unalterable adventure towards freedom. It seems to me that we've repeated it over and over again, and it's a compromise that I've made publicly and that I'll say again today, if I may, in his parliamentary office. We, precisely, because we believe... – and we are very close to what you are exposing –, because we actually believe that we are facing, precisely, and in some way posing the hindrances of the problem..., the catal conflict that we are teaching is what is the conflict of art there, that is the conflict with the Spanish State, huh? This frank reduction that still remains in many Spanish institutions. And, indeed, to solve this we said that we acted through four republican lives. First: through the exile. We have already constituted the Council for the Republic, which seems to me to be an organization to take into account and which we would like your group to join, because it is from these institutions that we begin to lay on the table in order to give us this international projection, in order to be able – from free space, which is also a nice expression, huh? When we say "free space" it's that here between maybe it's not exactly the same... –, from this free space we can move forward, too, throughout the republic speech. Second: from the prisons. Since the arrests we need a political speech, powerful, a speech like that made by the Jordi Cuixart and the other companies; a speech to say: "We are not going to defend ourselves from anything, we are going to accuse the Spanish State of everything. Thirdly, we have also set up a forum; a civic and social forum for debate is a forum for people from all political sectors. We'd like to, too... we think this is also a way to rethink the country, to see where we're going. So we have to put all these fish on top of the table. And, indeed, we will have to face these feelings. And we'll have to do it together, we'll have to do it together, the best way this country has answered...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.132.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.133.0	...that's when the first October was organized.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.134.0	The following question asks the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the rebuff of the general assumptions of the Government of the State]] [[317-00028/12]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.135.0	President, in what benefits Catalonia, the citizenry of Catalonia, which extends the assumptions of austerity and the detail of the People's Party and of Ciutadans, instead of approving assumptions that raise great social advances and the recovery of the rights of millions of people, between them also millions of Catalans and Catalans, assumptions that are not the assumptions of Mr Sánchez, nor of the Lord Churches, but are the assumptions of millions of people? How will they explain that they prefer to give up supporting these adventures and follow up on assumptions that amount to 1,000_million euros less for Catalonia for 2019? How do you think, for example, of compensating for the 40_millions provided for in these assumptions to freeze transportation rates to the metropolitan area and which you would not be able to do if you do not have these assumptions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.136.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.137.0	There is a phrase that I always remember, very often, Member of Parliament, from Muriel Casals – the esteemed Muriel Casals – who said the following: "To have a welfare state, what you have to have first is a state. For us, there has never been this division between the national and the social paths; for us it went together. We understand that, precisely – precisely – what is at stake now is this unity between the national and the social paths. For us, the path of the right to self-determination with the path of social demands and progress of the country is inseparable. We can't think that this is something different from each other; we think they went together. And when it is threatened, when it is ethically reprehensible, from all points of view – from human rights, from civil rights – when you see social rights still suspended, we simply cannot distinguish one thing from the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.138.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.139.0	The less we could predict it would reconnect with two things. We also consider that they are neither incompatible nor out of place with each other, but what we cannot, either, is subordinate to each other, because there are millions of people who are in an emergency situation and social emergence to whom it is necessary to give an answer now. We have shared with you the disclaimer of the justice system, a justice system that is not responding to the defence of the rights and freedoms of millions of people, because the feeling of mortgages affects millions of people, such as, for example, the feeling of the Manada affects many thousands of women who have also seen their rights before sexual assault have been violated. Therefore, to transform this it also needs a broad and consensus-based response. What's he gonna give... what answer is he gonna give these people? That until there's a change, one thing can't go on about everything else? They also say that there are many things that we can already do through decrees, through concrete measures. Do you know who has a major blockage at the Congressional Bureau? Citizens and the People's Party. They're gonna leave these better things in their hands? We insist: we believe that the freedom of political prisoners and the political solution to the national conflict in Catalonia must lead Mr. Sánchez there and we must lead him 80_per_cent here. And this happens necessary to give response to other freedoms and rights demanded by the citizenry, such as teachers, who go on vacation, or as teachers, who are preparing. What answer will you give these people? That they wait until we're independent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer you have the word again the president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.141.0	No, I'll ask these people to leave with us – to leave with us – for the civil, social and national rights of this people, because it's all the same. I'll ask you to leave with us to defend Mr. Nuet, because it seems unworthy to me that Mr. Nuet, then, must face a trial like this. And so I can't unplug Mr. Nuet's judgment from the assumptions – I can't unplug it – because it seems intolerable to me that we're living this situation. We're facing absolutely unacceptable facts, from a point of view of moral reprobation. I am posing, in this Chamber, on the table of this concept: it seems to me that morally, ethically, we are living in an absolutely exceptional and unacceptable situation for any Democrat – for any Democrat of this Chamber. So, to me, honestly, it's getting worse at these moments... Now I don't have it, no, no, I don't, but there's a tweet from Councilman Rull about this, right? And it seems important to me, because he was calling on this, he was calling on him to say, "Ostres, how can you imagine that we are considering negotiating the premises of our company in prison. I insist, and as much as your partner as our MPs are in prison: it's a matter we have to resolve together, we have to resolve it socially and nationally together, and I hope we do – I hope we do – in Barcelona and I hope we do in the Parliament of Catalonia too. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.142.0	It's all gone, Congresswoman. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the compliment of the parliamentary mandate on the date of the return of extraordinary payments of 2013 and 2014 to the civil servants]] [[317-00027/12]] The following question is posed by Mr. Miquel Iceta, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group Units per Avançar. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.143.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Many honourable President, on various occasions you have said that you only accept the mandate of this Parliament. As you know, on October 9th, this Parliament agreed to return to public employees the extraordinary payments of the years 2013 and 2014 between this year and the year 2020. On the other hand, the government that you preside over convened the General Bureau of Public Service to announce that these payments did not fully return until the year 2026. Do you intend to rectify your government's proposal that the unions have found insulting? Does your government intend to complete the parliamentary mandate on this issue?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.144.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.145.0	Yes, President. Mr. Deputy, do you intend to ask Minister Batet why we find ourselves in this situation, Mr. Iceta? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.146.0	To answer that question, the Member has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.147.0	Unfortunately, the Statute does not allow us to have a president who is not a member of Parliament, because, if not, immediately, I would say to him: "You give your place to Minister Batet [[relays]] Let's all win! [[Greetings.]] Miri, Mr. Torra, I understand. Now we understand why you don't want to answer in the debate that you yourself have this morning: simply because you don't know, because you don't have an answer. It is not possible to tell the public employees that the skin is being shot, it is not possible to tell the citizenry that it will be completed with a parliamentary mandate and then not to complete it. All the administrations that were frozen and that were paid back have returned to them less the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia. That's why the unions are already announcing mobilizations and waves. You think that's the answer these people deserve? Not me, because I'll be paid for whatever Parliament you want when you want and we'll be done. But, to the people who have been told about the payments, who have compromised that the 10_percent of the 2013 pay would be returned to guany and yet have not done..., is this the only answer? What's he saying to Minister Meritxell Batet? Is this what you value the self-government of Catalonia? In this you have valued your paper in this chamber? Please, be worthy, say that there have been difficulties, say that there would be some general state assumptions that give us more room to assume and say'maybe there might not be enough to reach the commitments that have already been entered into; but please do not send Minister Meritxell Batet to answer the questions that were addressed to you in a control session. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.148.0	To answer, another time, the president has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.149.0	So yes, I refer it to his minister – I refer it to his minister – because she is his minister, as the vice president of the government has well explained, eh? And as he also explained at the bilateral meetings that we had... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If you'll just listen to me... [[Pause.]] All right, perfect. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, are you listening to me? Because now I'm talking, you've already started saying all this... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Sir..., trick him, trick him, and ask him how the conversation went with Councilwoman Artadi. Because it's all about the expense floor, and you know it perfectly, and you know it, you know it perfectly – you know it perfectly. Miri, today, sir... you, Iceta, have done a truly spectacular cynicism exercise. I think I've already... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Yes, yes, yes! He's already... he's already out of the hemicicle and he's definitely, at this point, giving up the noble ladder, huh? The cynicism that you wear from all over... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Today...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.150.0	Deputies! Deputies, please! Please, shut up!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.151.0	...today you had a golden opportunity... – a golden opportunity, Mr. Iceta – a golden opportunity... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, a golden opportunity..., no..., no, no... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.152.0	Mr. Iceta, you've already asked.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.153.0	...no, a golden opportunity to humanize yourself, Mr.Iceta – to humanize yourself. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, to humanize yourself. To return to the path of a certain humanity. Yes, Mr. Iceta, to return to this path of a certain humanity, eh? And that's the problem – and that's the problem – that's right now in this hemisphere – that's the problem. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no... it's you. It is you who approved Article 155. It's you – you – who went to the government and parliamentarians. [[Greetings.]] It's you! The question is, what have you done since our political prisoners are in prison? What have you done? That's the question. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.154.0	Quiet, and please! Quiet! [[Widow's remorse.]] Respect for the turn, respect for who has the use of the word, respect for yourself, please. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the debate and the strengthening of consensus with the majority of society in favour of self-determination and republicanism and against the repression of the Spanish State]] [[317-00031/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.155.0	Thank you, President. Leave the question to the debate that we have previously made. A few minutes ago, I told him that the ballot boxes represent the consensus of our country, that the ballot boxes are and will be the solution to a problem that is political, that the ballot boxes are recognized for those who are in favour of independence but also for those who are not. That in this consensus we are almost all, as we are in republicanism opposed to the monarchy, as we find ourselves 80_percent citizens, too, when we face the repression of the State: broad and broad consensus at a time when what is at stake in Catalonia is the same democracy and defence of freedom. It is the struggle against repression and the right to self-determination that makes us bigger and allows us to address a larger majority of the country: the right to be, the right to exist, the right to express oneself from a whole people, think what you think, defend the flag you defend and speak the language you speak. We have, by luck – by luck – a fortunately diverse country, rich and almost unanimous in these three consensuses that I have just named. And it is to these vast majority to whom we must address in this new phase of the Catalan process; so you have expressed it many times, President, and so do we from the Republican Left of Catalonia. And this is today's question: how do we address it? Beyond what civil society is already doing, from the government and from Parliament, we must also work with this very spirit of great consensus and great majority. Trying to solve the day-to-day problems of citizens is also making a republic. To go to the barrel to listen, to make a determined bet for social policies, for social justice, to climb the country from point to point, from Baix Llobregat to Vall d'Aran, is essential. But also the good government, working on the big consensuses, so that working on the big consensuses as well, reconnecting the society, strengthens this "a people's sun that is so fit for all of us, and at the same time, doing it, the goal of determining ourselves is finally coming. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.156.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.157.0	Yes, President. Congressman, I'm very much in agreement with the line you're pointing at. Indeed, that is so, and I think that we have not talked sufficiently long enough about today's session and the previous sessions, about the real existence in this country of these three great consensuses, which I would also add, therefore, the consensus of the Catalan school, the consensus of linguistic immersion, these great consensuses that make us people, that make us a country, in short, no? And at these moments, actually, politically speaking there are these three, is to say: we feel and want to be republicans; we do not tolerate the repression that is being exercised judicially, we want political solutions to political problems, eh? , and the third consensus, on the right to self-determination in Catalonia. And, indeed, we have to work internally; it is clear that we do, that we have to work internally, because it will depend on us, in short, on any solution, eh? , now and from the sensations, that we can give it to the Catalan conflict. But we also have to work internationally, we have to go out into the world to explain what is happening in Spain and Catalonia. And this is a pocket, I guess, of the proper mesos, huh? ; and today we insisted with Councilman Maragall. I think this issue of external action is important. Regarding the internal debate, look, on the 16th we have an opportunity, the political parties that want to come to the Palau of the Generality, to debate – to debate! – to talk about these issues. We will lay on the table these; to see who are the fears that you pose on the table, eh? We, obviously, yes, Mrs. Arrimadas, will lay on the table the freedom of political prisoners, the return of exiles and the right to self-determination. You might want to put in some more. So perfect, we'll talk about any topic. But there's a high standard for us that we've put on the march these last few weeks, which is the Forum, the Civic and Social Forum for the Constituent Debate. We think it can be a really crucial tool in these people's months. To think of the country we want, to discuss the country we want, from all points of view and with this cross-cutting nature that the Forum has, seems to us a very useful tool. I think we need to rethink, effectively, this republic, this anti-repressive country, this radically democrat country, as it wants to be – as it wants to be – for when it comes to this moment, right? And, therefore, we also give great importance to the whole task that can be done from the Forum.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.158.0	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights against the Spanish State in the Bateraguna case]] [[317-00030/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.159.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let us begin by asking you, Mr President Torrent, that there is respect for this Parliament before the replies of the President of the Government of Catalonia. And I believe that the Socialist Party's response..., the Socialist Party's deputies have not respected the return as it is due to the institution that represents the Presidency of the Generality. And respect must be mutual, and we believe that what has happened here cannot be repeated again. [[Widow's remorse.]] We are asking in a concrete way the Members who have acted in this way, from the Socialist Party, to the reply of President Torra. President Torra, we have seen this week as the European Court of Rights of Strasbourg condemned the Spanish State for having undertaken six years of Arnaldo Otegi and four more Basque policies, after an unfair trial, for the lack of impartiality of the court. The court with its own in Strasbourg has determined this Tuesday that the other Spanish court violated Article 6.1 of the European Convention on Human Rights, on the right to a fair trial, when they were tried and sent to prison for the Bateragune case. We also saw how it happened with the director of Egunkaria, as it happened with the president of the Basque Parliament, Mr Atutxa. We have seen different aspects that attach themselves to an attitude, for example, of the German Government, of President Merkel, that the past divendres – what coincidences! 20 years of celebrating the 20th anniversary of the creation of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg – a statement was published reminding all European states to respect human rights on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the creation of the European Court of Human Rights. The statement states that respect for human rights by EU Member States cannot be a matter of letter. Any member of the European Community must act accordingly, and from the German Government they insist that the forty-seven members, the Member States, must complete their dues, just as they participate fully in the Council of Europe. Before this scene, and knowing that in the International Covenant on Political and Civil Rights, which has been in force since the year 76, article 1 says that all peoples have right to self-determination, what opinion do they deserve the judgements of the Court of Strasbourg and what remains of the judicial role of the State in these terms?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.160.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.161.0	President... Yes, indeed, Mr Otegi has spent six years in prison; his five companies and companies, preparing the strategic turn towards the peace of the Basque conflict when they were arrested, too, six years in prison. And the Strasbourg court, so, finally, the European Court of Human Rights has sentenced the Spanish State for this lack of impartiality of the court, but it will not return it six years ago to prison, Mr Otegi. Sentence is good news, in the sense that it reminds us that there are higher courts to which we can appeal before arbitrariness and injustice. Because I don't think it's possible to discredit Spanish justice, I don't think it's possible to discredit more, because it's already at the zero level of credit, Spanish justice. And, therefore, the opportunity for us to gain justice for our political prisoners some day will, of course, always be in the European courts. But that also means that this has not been the first setback that Spain's justice has suffered. In fact, Spain's justice, thanks to the internationalization of our exiles, suffers severe judicial setbacks. In Germany, Belgium, Scotland, Switzerland, huh? Well, our exiles are free, we go and embrace them with complete freedom. And here we are ordered to go to prison, so we can talk to them. Yesterday's sentence for Otegi's case gives us the reason in the complaint that we have not failed to make about the absence of justice in a general cause that is full of revenge. I think we talked a lot this morning. But that's it, it's not justice anymore, it's revenge. And we see it in companies – now also sees Company Nuet – who were simply here, in this table, as are the President of Parliament and the rest of the members of the Bureau of Parliament, who simply allowed a debate and were prosecuted. This is something that, in order to be passing sequences, I don't think we can ever forget. Catalans will never forget what's going on here, will they? And so, I think one of the lessons, huh? From this feeling, I think that one of these lessons from everything that has happened in the Catalan exile during this year is that we are strong, where we have to turn now strategically, where we have to put all the focus is on Europe and the world. That's where our cry for civil, social and national rights, that's where the international mediation that we're looking for, so they have to have the answer. And I am absolutely convinced that we will find him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.162.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the date of the return of the extraordinary payments of 2013 and 2014 to the employees and about the improvement of the situation of the health professionals]] [[317-00026/12]] The later asks the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.163.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Torra, after what you've made us witness here today, you have another chance to behave yourself really like the President of the Generalitat. I am going to ask you a very simple but very important question: when will the Government of the Generalitat return to public officials and servants in Catalonia the payments that were taken from them in 2013 and 2014? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.164.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.165.0	President... Congresswoman, I think that both the Councillor Puignero, when he answered this question, as today the Vice-President of the Parliament have given ample answer, therefore, to this question. They know we're negotiating with them, we've come to five agreements – I think, counselor, if that's not... – with them working, five agreements. It's hanging up and it's gravity that we're hanging up on this subject, it's certainly gravity. And I share, as you can imagine, just like all the members of this chamber, that we don't have the opportunity yet to resolve this issue. It's obvious and I know it's hard, and I share it, so this feeling that this can't be out of hand. And we're making every effort to get it out of the way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.166.0	Thank you, President. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.167.0	Thank you. Mr Torra, I think you have already replaced him enough today, the vice-president, so that he wants to replace you again in the control session. Furthermore, if you are referring to what the Vice-President has said, I suppose you will take up your speech. And his speech is that it's Spain's fault, for a change. I only stick to the words of the trade unions who have described this government's proposal as insulting contempt and disrespect. Because you are telling them that what you took from them in 2013 and 2104 will be returned to you in 2026 – in 2026! – thirteen years after they've taken their money from them, they're going to give it back. That does, because you already know what to do, little. Now yes, the Parliament's resolution that was adopted here a couple of years ago so that a timetable could be drawn up and the payments returned in the same year and next, that resolution does not comply with it. That perfectly constitutional resolution – it does not violate any law, it has not been suspended – gives us the desire to comply with it. I don't know if you're aware, Mr. Torra, so much that you're going to Waterloo and so much that you're all day with your chiringuitos and your things, I don't know if you're aware of the worrying situation that public servants in Catalonia have. They are the ones who have suffered the most cuts from all over Spain – it is that in no community have they been cut like here! – those who will later regain their rights. Now, that's right, Catalonia is the autonomous community with the highest positions and where they charge the most, because for that you have no mania. Public servants have endured public services. And I want to specifically talk to you about the health sector. Mr Torra, what are you going to do, as president, to try to improve the conditions of healthcare professionals, to try to make this five-day strike at the end of the month, which can affect thousands of people, not necessary? What are you going to do? How are you going to convince the Catalans that this matters to you? Doctors and healthcare professionals have not only taken their pay off: they have work overload, lack of substitutes, do not charge the 100_per_cent of the DPO... There are nine hundred fewer doctors in Catalonia. And do you know why Mr. Torra? Because many have gone to other autonomous communities, which have the same criteria on the part of the State, eh? Mr. Vice President, the same ones, the same limits... but they pay them more and cut them less. That's why we're losing healthcare professionals. I'm telling you, please stop blaming Madrid. What are you going to do to pay back and improve the situation of health professionals? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.168.0	In order to answer again the word the President of the Generalitat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.169.0	Yes, I insist, I insist on the five agreements that we have reached with the unions and, therefore, this agreement that remains with us, that it is big, that it is hard and that, therefore, it concentrates on these moments, so all the government's efforts to find a solution to it is immediately possible. Look, I know perfectly well the situation of primary care doctors, among other things because one of my Germans is a CAP doctor, and therefore I know perfectly well the conditions in which they are working right now in the CAPs of Catalonia and, therefore, the work they have, the evil I am they have, and, therefore... I also want to express, therefore, that it is an issue that we need to resolve, effectively, that we need to resolve, that this country needs to solve these issues. We need the Mediterranean Corridor, we need some better infrastructure, obviously we do, obviously all these issues have to be solved. But, of course, now you see the second part, and you, of course, obviously... yes, I have to explain the second part. And the second part, effectively, is the fiscal deficit. Oh! It's the fiscal deficit... listen to me, why are we setting ourselves up at a certain time, two years ago, this country starts to think that if we don't have our resources, it's impossible to address all these problems? It's that, the initial point at which independence grows, it's strong and it starts to understand that for a matter of why we want better sanitation, because we want better education, because we want the infrastructure we need, we want independence. We don't want it for flags or hymns. We want her for this, we want her for the citizenry, because everyone has an opportunity, because in this country everyone who wants to throw her life project, run from the country, can pull it forward. That's why we want independence, that's why we need to manage our resources. And that's it– that's it–, huh? So that they don't have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.170.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.171.0	...the full disposition of our resources, we cannot respond to the full demand for... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.172.0	So far the questions to the President of the Generality. Now we suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four, which we will begin with the report of the Greuges Synod. Thank you very much. [[The session is suspected to be three-quarters of a half-and-a-half-and-half-minute and is two-quarters of a quarter of a quarter of a half-and-five-minute. He chairs the President of Parliament, accompanied by the first and second vice-presidents and the first, second and third secretaries. The Bureau is attended by the Secretary-General, the Iletrat Major, the Iletrada Esther Andreu and Fornos and the Iletrat Ferran Domínguez Garcia.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.173.0	Good afternoon, let's resume the session. MPs, MPs, ask them to vaginate their respectful scons. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the committees (Rule 49(2))]] Before we proceed with the agenda item on the report of the Greuges Syndic, as we announced this morning, let me before you communicate to the Plenary the composition of the months of the commissions. According to Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees must, as you know, be communicated to the plenary. And since this composition has been included in the Ple's file, which has all the deputies and deputies, I pray that I will be delighted to read it. Can it be given, therefore, to inform the Ple? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Report of the Greuges Syndicate entitled "The violation of public rights and freedoms in the event of the criminal reaction to October 1 and the application of Article 155 EC]] [[360-00004/12]] So let us now turn to the agenda item on the report of the Greuges Synod entitled "The violation of the fundamental rights and public freedoms in the event of the criminal reaction to '1 October and the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. Before starting this point, if I may, I would like to greet, in the name of the whole chamber, the heavyweight syndicate and his team, who will accompany us today, on the occasion of this plenary session and the presentation of the report. In accordance with Article 181 of the Rules of Procedure, the syndic of hardships will make the presentation of this report, in an extraordinary way in this Plenary, without time limit. And then parliamentary groups will have a two-minute intervention for each group, and five for the parliamentary subgroups, so that they can position themselves in relation to this report. Therefore, without further ado, I pass the word to the heavyweight syndic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.174.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before anything else, and given that you have sorted the day you have sorted because this report is presented, for civic, people's and personal reasons, I want to remind you that today forty-seven years ago we were going to create the Assembly of Catalonia. Here behind – now in prestec – there was a work of the Tàpies that he remembered on November 7, 1971. Where we were all, all the political and social forces that had a common goal: to win freedom before the Franco dictatorship. Amnesty, freedom, principles of the 32nd State as the first step in exercising the right of self-determination and coordination with the other forces of the Spanish State fighting with the same objective. It is an honor for me to be able to remind you today, in this rostrum, and more at the time of submitting this report. This report is part of a..., lost the pretense, trilogy, of three reports that, on facts bearing a chronology followed, we have anat presenting to Parliament. April 2017, on the erosion of rights in the kingdom of Espanya, which was discussed in the Commission of the Syndic on June 2017; as of November 2017, around the events of '1 October, which was seen in this plenary on the Mar 2018; and one which is a small compendium of everything, which is what we will see today, which was closed, in its elaboration, on 30 April 2018, and was released to the Parliament and to the President of the Major, with express request, according to the new Rules, with the new article of the Rules of Parliament, if debated in plenary, if it had been decided thus, as they have decided today, on 7 November. I would like to underline that, in the meantime, before, during... and we continue to report to Parliament on rights violated. We need to discuss the most important right, which we still do not respect, to the school of Catalonia: equal opportunities. We need to discuss an elementary right, which in Catalonia is stuck, like that of housing of social emergence, which causes a huge problem, especially to our local powers, and they have a report corresponding to respect. We need to discuss something that I alert everyone and everyone, like one of the serious dangers that we have ahead of us: the attacks on the territory, that we will live again a climate of those who believe that it is possible to negotiate with unsuspected limits with anything that will remain for generations. They're holding the corresponding report. Or the full right to defend all types of detainees in our home, according to European standards. Or the universalization of salvation, which has now been modified, from the last decisions of the Spanish Government. Or what we find at these times as a difficult problem, which we come to inform, about CAPs and pediatrics. Or on guaranteed income, which, having to replace the minimum income, leaves many spaces to fill. Or, the great problem of Europe, which is also a problem to Spain and Catalonia: migrations. And, very especially, the theme of the MENA. And I could continue with the list, to make them understand that I trust, at the pace that you decide, to be able to see, from the burden that we have, the people of the syndic, and what you have, as you hear us, to agree and push policies to deal with these problems of rights. I could sum it up in that we still have to see in this Ple, the Annual Report of Exercise 2017, which was released to Parliament on the first days of February 2018. In May 2018 – this report closed on April 30, so that it does not analyse facts after April 30, 2018 – we delivered a report that starts from a finding, which, if I may say so with great humility, I think there is not a full awareness of the fact. We are ahead of a huge political problem, of some dimensions that we have certainly not yet reached, and which has taken on some other dimensions, much more complex and difficult, when it has been brought to justice. A lot of mistakes have been made. We have made many mistakes, and let me again for the reminder of the Assembly of Catalonia, to tell them that they have made themselves, since it was not possible to develop what it meant as the element of the advent of the 1978 Constitution. When he spoke and established, for the first time in Spain, and in a difficult way, they constitute it, that Spain is constituted by nationalities and regions. That he stayed there, but that he did not know how to develop it according to what he wanted to say, "the constituents, before a reality. As stated in the same Constitutional Court before LOAPA, "unity does not mean uniformity. Or what Article 3 said when it said that "public authorities would guarantee and encourage the use of all languages. With a huge gap, which there has been no public power, at the state level, that has been able to bring together, in all the territories of the State, that in the Spanish State there are four languages. One, who is the official of the State, the castle, and three other languages. And, as Article 149 says, there should have been an effort of intercultural understanding of these realities. We come to the 2006 reform and the 2010 judgment, which, some say, is the time to clear up the political problem. This syndic, perhaps as a person already of a certain age, believes that there are fears prior to the basis of everything that today perhaps we have not yet measured enough nor approached with enough courage. Requests for political solutions, majorities and often closed doors and difficulties to move forward. And so, in April 2017, and I forgive the critics, with little attention to this chamber, the syndic dared to criticize and point out that there were erosions in some of the rights of the state and, therefore, also in Catalonia. We are given international authorities, like Amnesty, on freedom of expression. Then they talked about the titulars, the rappers, etcetera. The right of assembly and demonstration: some judgments that came to prohibit, in fact, meetings, that it is one of the most important rights in democracy. What the Greek says to us, which is the highest authority of the Council of Europe for the observation of the judiciary, which has supported justice – the syndic does not say so; the syndic places it on the report from what the Greek says. And they keep saying so, because of the eleven recommendations made by the Greek – years ago that made them – most of them are about to be corrected. Or what was said in the debate of the Commission of Democracy through the Law, known as the Venice Commission, of which this syndic forms part as an observer in being president of all the defenders of Europe, warning the Spanish legislator that with the reform of the Constitutional Court it was being cut down and reduced the character of objective arbitrator, because it was given powers that did not correspond to a constitutional court. And, above all, underlining that it is inverse that in the inauguration of the Spanish court, September 2017, before the highest authorities of the State, beginning for the head of the State, it comes to solemnize that "the rule of law is based on the unity of the country. Article 1 of the Constitution states that "Spain is a social, democratic and legal state, and within the social, democratic and legal state, everything, absolutely everything, including the unity of the country, is subject to debate, proposal and legal contradiction. It is the opposite, if the rule of law is based on the unity of the country we are inverted, in an elementary way for a law school, which is the freedom of exercise of all that is the law state. In this report we said that the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court were taking decisions limiting the freedom of parliamentary debate and the inviolability of Members. Events have arrived, which you have often mentioned, from September to October 2017, and I want to refer to September 6 and 7 in this chamber, where illegalities are committed, illegalities are committed in form and in content; in form, when the mandatory process of the Guarantee Board is unknown; and, in substance, when decisions are taken against rights. All this analyzed in our annual report, in the notes we were going to publish in the October report and in this one we are discussing today. A series of transgressions that were the object of responses with mechanisms provided for in the Constitution. It could even abhor them by reading the list of decisions that are taken when, first, it is suspended and annulled on the part of the Constitutional; when it is put in doubt and brought to the Constitutional and the reform of the Rules of this Chamber is analysed; when it is suspected and declared unconstitutional and null and void the Law of the Referendum; or when, also, the Constitutional acts on the appointment of members of the electoral union; or when, also, the decrees of complementary norms of the Referendum and a long etcetera. They are activated and the mechanisms provided for in the Constitution are used when there are illegalities in the constitutional order. It is very important to consider what it means. It means that the State has demonstrated, at that time, with those mechanisms, that it has effective legal instruments to render ineffective the violations that may be committed by governments and autonomous parliaments. In fact, all anti-legal actions – which do not mean criminal – all anti-legal actions of September and October were suspended, first, and then annulled by the Constitutional Court. They did not come to have any legal effect, and the legal order was fully safeguarded. What we are criticising, therefore, is not that there is a reaction from the State before what it considers to be clear breaches of the legal order, but that this reaction is disproportionate, both for what it does to Article 155 and, above all, with the use of the Criminal Code. The illegal, unlicensed, October 1st referendum arrived. The judicial authority that provided for the system, the order, to govern the reference – the judge judge Armas – issued the interlocutory on that you "prevent the reference without affecting the citizen's coexistence; it is the literal, exact quote of the command that the judge that eats all judicial authority respects the 1st of October. October 1 was brutalized by the public security forces of the National Police and the Civil Guard. I have before me the dossier issued by Nils Muižnieks, commission of Human Rights to Europe then - it has now been replaced by Dunja Mijatović -, then the commission, the highest authority of the maximum code of human rights that there is in Europe and - forgives that it is Eurocentric - to the planet, the Convention of Human Rights, which has in charge its safeguard, and warns of the disproportionate use of force, and demands an independent and effective investigation. The Minister of Interior replied that there was no place for this because it had acted prudently, appropriately and proportionately; the proceedings had never been directed against the citizens and their ideas. Since the Commission is not satisfied, it sends it to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, the highest authority on behalf of the Council of Ministers, in which there is also Spain. And summon the Spanish government to Strasbourg and there goes Minister Dastis. And Minister Dastis is committed, before the Thorbjørn Jagland, secretaries-general there, and now still, of the Council of Europe, to presenting the objective investigation into the events of '1 October. And you say, Jagland at the end of this meeting that he greets that Espanya will conduct an investigation into police activity in Catalonia and will be presented to the Council of Europe. Mr. Jagland's dispatch to Strasbourg, and the answer I got is that they haven't yet rejected a single line on the October 1st report. There are other reports that we quote, like the one that passed with the commission, then was not Bachelet but his predecessor to the High Commission of United Nations, which is the front door of the plenary of the Human Rights Committee when he asks for responsibilities for the events of police action on October 1 or Jagland itself when, on behalf of the whole Council of Europe, he presents the annual report before the assembly of parliamentarians. We consider that this is a massive hole to deal calmly with this difficult political problem that we have ahead of us. And that all – all – here, and to the Courts, to Moncloa, to the Plaça Sant Jaume, to any legislative and governmental institution we would gain authority if we were able to fill it transparently, clearly. Who's going to give the orders? Who sorted the colleges? Why did he act the way he did? Who's going to give the orders that they don't act any more? Who's responsible? There was no single parliamentary explanation of these events, nor was there a single report to the international authorities who complained about us. I say again, and I invite everyone here, and above all there, as I have done, that we can resolve with serenity, with calmness, without any departure from one another, on the contrary, to gain authority, the clarification of these facts. And then we find that Article 155 applies and the Criminal Code applies, as discussed in the report. In the report we quote – you know it from envelopes but I can't help remembering it – as it is treated in the same Spanish order you are afraid of how they affect us, October 1, and later. When the Penal Code was reformed, with a Spanish organic law, it is said that "we are referring to conduct that they have no authority to deserve the penal toilet – the illegal summoning of references, said the Spanish legislator in the organic law, reforming the code – "less even if the penalty is imprisonment. "Menys even if the penalty that is foreseen is imprisonment. And it says, the same organic law: "The Constitution and the set of legal orders already have sufficient, adequate instruments to ensure respect for the legality and democratic institutions and to ensure the peaceful coexistence of all citizens. It defined radically ignored when it is intended to address, first of all, that it is what matters to all of us, politically, institutionally, such a complex and immense problem as we are dealing with. During the debate they constituted, when we were inspired by what the Bonn Law says to make Article 155, two times formally and a third not so formally, it is suggested that Article 155 allows for the dissolution of legislative assemblies and the dissolution of autonomous governments; legislative assemblies that are not necessarily laid down for all the autonomous communities to the Constitution, instead of the Constitution there is the mandate that all the autonomous communities have legislative assemblies. They are at three, historical names, and those who may exceptionally pass through that level, but what is clear is that the three times it is intended to introduce dissolution of parliaments or governments are rejected by the vast majority. There is no better interpretation of a law, and less of a constitution, than the debate constitutes. Thus, it was applied with the dissolution of the Catalan Parliament and its Government, with which, in the opinion of the syndic, it meant a double point of view to the principle of Article 23 of the Constitution and of the European Convention. Deny the exercise of the office that has rejected a legislator or a governor by vote, on the part of the citizenry and break the link between the elected and the voters, therefore, denying the right to the citizenry that the corresponding elections had mobilized to vote in the Parliament of Catalonia. The measures taken with 155 are resorted to by two political subjects who have the competence to challenge them: the Group of the Party of Deputies and this Parliament. The two appeals are paralyzed to the Constitutional Court, with the argument that when they were raised, the Constitutional literally says "that there is no government in Catalonia can not afford the other side of arguments. This, in terms of right, is denied justice. A constitutional that solves with hours or with very important fears, a theme like this – the syndic, obviously, has no intention of saying how to solve – a theme like this stands in its resolution. Is 155 constitutional as it was applied, according to the current Constitutional Court? Everyone can do the interpretations they want, there's only one organ that can clarify it. At this point, he was paralyzed and the months passed. And I say again: when it happens, when it affects, when it alters the whole institutional order, it denies justice and paralyzes this resolution. For our report, the use of the Criminal Code is far more disproportionate. You have – you are free the month of May in Parliament, I suppose you have from abroad and you are on the website of the Syndic in Catalan, in Spanish and in English from abroad – the detailed list of all possible violations of rights that you are a fan, as the Penal Code has applied. So I won't talk to, practically, any of them. I'll remember them. Let's start with the inviolability of parliamentarians, who, if they look at the previous Constitutional judgments, or follow the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, see that it is a practically exceptional measure. Today, on the continent of Europe, there are MEPs who are ready to take part in Turkey and Spain. In the territory of the Council of Europe, of which we are all part and should not be proud, of which we are part, there are parliamentarians engaged in those two realities. Let's talk about the pre-determined judge principle for you. You know perfectly well that we are ahead of identical facts, the same criminal claim that will be judged to four different judicial instances – to four. They had taught us that the same crime was an instance alone. He's got four. And in many cases not to the default by law, which would be, if man is not out, the ordinary judgment, and if he is out, the one that previews the law: Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. We understand that you may have violated the article of the convention that speaks of the right to defence. The right to defence is very much developed in Europe, they have it with great detail of what it means, and it can be one of the clearest factors of violation of European law that has taken place from the application of the Criminal Code. Among other things, and coming out of the Council of Europe, the presumption of innocence. How is it possible that yesterday, to say the last date – because you have done so too and others have done so – the vice president of the Government of Spain said that you are in prison for crimes committed? « They are arrested for crimes that are eaten. European legislation of 2016, the last one you can find, there are many previous ones, clearly telling us that there is no public declaration made by the authorities, referring to no one as the guilty person until he is sentenced. Where's the presumption of innocence? We also note in our report that criminal law has been violated: rebelled, seditious. Do you really believe that the demonstration of thousands of people before the Economics Council was rebellion or sedition? What made the demonstration of many more people before the Navarra High Court of Justice when they were judging the case of La Manada? And they were jutting it that moment. Is he going to be rebellious? Was it sedition? What was it when Altos Hornos provoked a huge gathering of demonstrations before the judiciary? And I could hate them for all the demonstrations that they've had. As the Council of Europe says, as Jagland says, its highest authority, "the right of demonstration, nor that it is for a radically illegal object, is sacred, in democracy, and cannot be attacked with any criminal measure. What temporary detention means, lack of personal freedom, is the hardest penalty that can be applied to a person trying to take his life. There are social and political leaders who carry more than one year without personal freedom, under preventive detention. They're political prisoners. We've said so to satiety, with all the arguments. Agafin, for whom they continue to doubt, the agreement of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe – Spain has an extensive delegation and voted for it – it is stated that it is a political press. They have five characteristics. Very cautiously, this syndic says three sure they'll gather them. You say there's enough alone, huh? I recommend that they vacate in agreement with October 2012, the Parliamentary Assembly voted for the Spanish parliamentarians, who are also members of the Parliamentary Assembly. To define..., « the definition – I have in English, forgive – « of political prisoner. Clear water. It's just that it seems to me that you're trying to talk about this subject, with this definition, which is what I'm legally, institutionally, and politically. There was no judicial impartiality. How is it possible that there is no consequence that a government advertises that it has phone conversations with the Constitutional when it presents causes? How is it possible that an instructor emits political opinions within the instruction? How is it possible that one instructor comes to say: "No, no, no..., this one cannot be a candidate, triine another? [[The orator assigns the government bench.]] And give them to you because they are the only candidates who could be candidates. When this Mr. President, you've consulted and proposed. They're the only ones and the only ones. And the instructor says: "No, this one may not, but some others may. Absolutely, to the antipodes of judicial impartiality. There was no right to effective protection. For example, sanctions have been imposed on the names of ‘electoral syndics, unheard of, and no subsequent appeals. Those who understand the right know that there are two conditions that make the right decision null and void. Unaudited part the no higher instance. This completely cancels any legal measure. And there aren't many little ones, are there? , there are many, for example, 30,000 euros per day. There is no effective guardianship. There have been clear violations of freedom of expression, assembly and demonstration, which we have said since the April 2017 report, and even more so, it was attempted to restrict freedom of information when an interview was sent to the Catalan Radio and Television Corporation and was told that they were forbidden to report on the October 1 referendum. Allow me to make a preview of this exhibit, which is, since it's the syndic's report, the records and read the recommendations that we leave on the table. They're from the maig. First: the immediate release of persons charged with the crimes of rebellion and sedition that are in provisional detention while a trial is not held with full guarantees and there is a firm sentence. Are you aware of what it would mean for everyone – I will always say for everyone –, for all political sensitivities, that they can enter for their own little in their judicial? Secondly, we find ourselves faced with historical problems and with an eminently political character that affect fundamental rights. Therefore, it is the beginning of a dialect built to achieve a political solution to the conflict. This dialogue is not only to be seen in the political and institutional sphere, but also between the civil societies of Catalonia and the rest of the State, in one band, and among the actors of all the political and social sensitivities of Catalonia. To qualify, the syndic believes that we are far from having empowered, among all – and the syndic may be the first – dialog areas because this was something you planned to help resolve by focusing on the subject. Thirdly, in the current context of rights erosion, which is not deprived of our immediate environment – it is clear that Europe has very strong problems of rights erosion – it can strengthen democratic guarantees that guarantee the exercise of rights and freedom of speech, such as freedom of expression, assembly and demonstration. Fourthly, the possible illegalities which have been committed, as a possible disobedience to the Constitutional Court, have to be dealt with in the framework of the strict principles of criminal legality provided for constitutionally. Five: before the disproportion of the criminal treatment of these issues, it would be advisable to recommend the recovery by the State Attorney General and the assembly of institutions forming the judiciary of the democratic principles of minimum criminal and proportional intervention. He's in the penal law, in the boars. The criminal law says: "Minimum intervention and proportional intervention – are the notes and accusations we find in the prosecutions minimal and proportional? –« in the tax application of the Criminal Code for which it makes possible description of punishable acts. Sisena: the clarification, as called for by the international bodies, Council of Europe and the United Nations, of the responsibilities for rape undertaken on 1 October. In this sense, I would like to call for scrupulous respect for the principle of proportionality on the part of the body and the security forces when it is necessary to intervene in citizen mobilizations and in particular the need to respect the prohibition of using rubber drivers. This syndic broke the banjas facing Internal Councillors who used the force disproportionately to dislodge the Rectorate of the University of Barcelona when there were the themes of Bolonya, or the Plaça de Catalunya with the indignant, when rubber pilots were used, and posed many objections, and continues to pose them, to the indiscriminate use of what electric guns mean. Septena: the complete restoration of self-government in Catalonia without intervention in management or finance. I would appeal from this rostrum to the dialogue, to the freedoms, to the proposal – to the proposal, to the proposal – to an agreed consultation. President of the Generality, I feel it is my responsibility to call upon you to rule with the maximum possible power. And, as the highest institutional authority of what the Catalonian system is, to lead the implementation of these measures. I appeal to all parliamentary groups, to the sensitivities they want. This isn't an electoral issue, this isn't a stomach issue, not a stomach duet, bring it here, to the head, to the serenity. It's a very difficult issue, the political issue. I'm talking about the whole political issue. It's a very difficult topic. Take him with sereneness. They can do it. Oblivion, when approached, of the partisan lines of confrontation of seeing who won. We recognize that some have denied the dialog and others have raised utopias. Let's approach it from all the possible expressions that I deserved to listen to, fleeing any action that seems more political than judicial measure. It's not just that new people are in prison with preventative character; it's not fair. I'm saying it as modest as I can, but as strong as I can. It's a huge injustice. I quickly translated it into party machinery, as the Vice-President has wrongly done yesterday, when she said that she had committed, violating everything that should be the noble, serious, responsible, institutional dialogue. I assure you that the vast majority of citizens of Catalonia – I do not have any of this, I will not give them any percentage – want to approach from this perspective, not from the legitimate fight, of parliamentary contradiction, but not from the solution of a subject that we have been dealing with for decades, and that we may be looking at evil, too, when we did not know how to apply the Constitution of 78. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.175.0	Thank you, syndic. Now, to take a stand, it's the turn of parliamentary groups, starting with the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Mr Carlos Carrizosa has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.176.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Syndic, Members of Parliament, well, as everyone knows, the process has long since ceased to be political and it is already religion, and now we have heard, therefore, a response, a mass, a homily on the part of who should be the syndic of people, but it is the syndic of the process, and it is the syndic of the Government. We have already repeatedly called for Mr Ribó's resignation. It has not yet been implemented, and I shall refer to it later. No wonder there are more and more citizens in Catalonia who are already going to the Greuges Synod and prefer to go to the Ombudsman. Ombudsman, by the way, which is one of the issues that the Constitutional Court amended the plan to the Statute of 2006 when it was intended that the only person who could act as Ombudsman in Catalonia would be precisely the Sindic de Greuges. That was overturned by the Constitutional Court, and thanks to that ruling of the Constitutional Court of 2010, we can, some of us, go over the Greuges Synod, which shows no other loyalty than loyalty to the process and to the current procedural government. And, because that's what I'm forced to say once again, like others. For, with regard to this report, "Vulneració de Drets fonamentales, llibertats publiques en casó de la réacción penal à '1 d'octubre i l'applicación de l'art 155, this report, the new one, which accumulates to all that has been carried out so far by Mr Ribó, is all cut by the same pattern. They are, therefore, reports that are designed to support the thesis of the government and a part of Catalan society, or that part of Catalan society with which Mr Ribó probably commulga. He has come here and made us an exhibition of his times..., of his times even before the proclamation of the constitution of the Catalan assembly, he has referred, and then he has made us a story that did not speak of the rights of the people, he spoke of the nationalist vicissitudes that Mr Ribó seems to be basic and related to the subject, because, at last, they care, here, the lords of the government. He referred to: « Why did they pose in the State? Precisely Mr. Jordi Solé Tura, who was my professor in the Faculty of Law, to the term « nationalitat, who was the father of the Constitution, Mr. Jordi Solé Tura, gave him a very different meaning to that term today on the bench of separatism. So, don't you refer to it as... the expectations of 78 have not been met. Well, that's a very concrete speech, but I also remind you that when you are disgruntled with things of the Constitution, as we can all have certain concerns of modification or reform, then they are done by legal procedures. You, in this report, in the end, what you have done is your old cherry picking technique, pecking cherries; you build interspersed arguments only those that are favorable to you; you carefully choose each argument. If, for example, there is a court that pronounces on something and there is a particular vote and you like the particular vote, it refers to the judge's particular vote and not to the full decision. If there is one paragraph that holds two things, one that suits you but another that does not suit you, then choose only the one that suits you. You, for example, when you cite arguments of authority, are – absolutely and ridiculously, Mr Ribó – partial. We were very surprised by a note on page 25..., on page 14 of your report, note 25, you refer to a report, "Judicial controls in the context of the first October referendum. And you say, oysters! by Mr Costa, Mr Tulkens, Mr Kaleck and Mr Simor. And when we saw « Costa, I say: « The syndic has here put Mr Costa! [[The speaker appointed the Bureau of Parliament.]] But no, I hadn't put it in, Mr. Costa. And I thought, "What a misconception. We're looking for the report, and we found it. On the web, and with the anagram d'Esquerra Republicana. It's a Republican Left report. [[The orator shows it to the chamber. Greetings.]] Please! – Please, please... What are you going to say? – What are they going to tell you? Ostras, Mr. Syndic, really, is that, a minimum of shame – a minimum of shame. You see, when you stand beside those who trampled on the rights of Members here on 6 and 7 October, and in addition to all Catalans, you, with your small mouth, say that something may have happened, but that the criminal reaction has really been disproportionate, and also the constitutional political reaction with the application of 155, has been disproportionate. And then, he devotes much of his efforts to demonstrating this disproportion. Sure, why would that happen? For by relativizing, precisely, the gravity of the conduct and the impact on the rights of Catalans, of what happened here. You have reproaches for the Civil Guard, for the National Police, for the Spanish Government, for the judges, for the judicial procedures, but you have no criticism for those who strike democracy with a rule that they call it "absolute rule, which cannot pass through the courts, which made Mr Puigdemont president, who he named to the judges, and that in the end the very nationality of the people who stayed in Catalonia was in question. The most basic rights of the people remained in question, and pretered because some gentlemen decided to repeal the Constitution and the Statute. That they stole our personal data? Well, yeah, what does it matter... is that you don't say any of that...? You don't say anything about them stealing our personal data? Finally, when you cease to appreciate absolutely the gravity of the things that have happened, then this alarms us seriously, because you do not intend, at all, to defend the non-separatist Catalans. And it doesn't just because you're the syndic of the process, and it's part of it, it's one more of them. You have acknowledged that on October 26, 2017 he went to the Sanhedrin who was leading the coup and was there. He says: "No, it is that I went there to mediate. Ostras, if on February 22, 81, the defender of the village that there had been, that there was not because it began in 82, would have been there with Armada, Milans de Bosch and Tejero in a meeting and then caught him and said: "No, I went to mediate. Do you believe that you would continue to be a defender of the people in Spain? [[Greetings.]] Look, I'm gonna tell you three things. Three things to show now, once and for all, what is the rejection of my parliamentary group, which is the most voted group in Catalonia, which is the largest group in this House, so that you can see, therefore, what are the consequences for us of your new homily today. First, your office depends on Parliament and your budget depends on this Parliament. There are 6,3_million_of_euros, you have seventy_and_seven staff, twenty-seven persons of free designation, which is 35,1_per_cent of the persons in interinity, designated to finger by the syndic. To make an idea: in front of that 35.1, the Antifrau Office has 9,4, the Parliament, 5,2, the Union of Accounts, 0.9 and the Council of State Guarantees, 0_per_cent. Mr. Ribó has the chiringuito with his finger-marks. He has them there, to do what he says so he doesn't throw them away. That's Mr. Ribó, that's what Mr. Ribó has been riding, for fourteen years he's been a syndic. [[Greetings.]] A_third part of the template depending on your fingertips. Second. You can keep your chiringuite in a nationalist society that lets you live well – already let us uncover the lies of the PDECAT in ALDE – and now let us uncover yours in Europe. Look, we are going to send a letter – we are going to send a letter – to the eighty-two European ombudsmen, to the Council of Europe, to the UN human rights bodies and to other international bodies, in which we say that « Mr Ribó shows unwavering adherence to those who tried to trample the rights and freedoms of all Catalans and it was and continues to be shamefully improper what could be expected of him from what happened, disqualifies him from continuing to exercise his office, etc.. We will send you to the rest of your colleagues whom you met with the authorities of the Council of Europe and other syndics to report this alleged lack of protection of rights in Catalonia. Let's tell you what the first match in Catalonia thinks. And, finally, you finish your activity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.177.0	Mr. Carrizosa, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.178.0	... – yes, Mr President; I finish right now – you end in February 2019, you will have been fifteen years. We are going to propose a law so that you, if we do not agree to change the syndic, cannot continue with that excuse by perpetuating yourself in the same post. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.179.0	Yes, Mr. Costa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.180.0	For allusions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.181.0	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.182.0	Well, I'll be shorter. Just ask Mr. Carrizosa, if not... [[I'll give you the applause.]] If they don't know how hard it is, when...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.183.0	One moment, one moment, Mr. Costa. If they don't want to listen, they have all the right of the world to abandon the hemicicle, and if not, respect who's talking. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.184.0	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.185.0	One moment, one moment, Mr. Costa. [[Widow's remorse.]] Article 87 says that at most it is three minutes; I gave two minutes to Mr. Costa. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I insist, if they don't want to listen to who has the word, abandon the hemicicle, and if not, respect who has the order of the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Pujol – Mr. Pujol –, quiet. Mr. Costa, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.186.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'd like to start by thanking you or asking you to have a little more parliamentary courtesy in allusions, when you're a fan – I think a member of the Bureau deserves it too – but in any case I just wanted to clarify the letter you made to Mr. Jean-Paul Costa, who makes this report quoted by the syndic. Mr Jean-Paul Costa was the President of the European Court of Human Rights from 2007 to 2011, eh? , which constantly leaves the Spanish State in evidence in its senses. That's all it was. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.187.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.188.0	Yes, it has been allowed, on a point of order, in the middle of the debate, some hints, when in this Parliament I have never seen them of more than thirty seconds, be of two_minutes, which I thank Mr Costa for not having exhausted, but it is that in the middle of the debate..., the hints are usually made when the debate is over, Mr President. Two things, Mr President, in which a distinction has been made right now, and another one has been made this morning, which is that the Rules of Procedure have not been applied when asked, too. I ask the President to respect the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.189.0	We're still on the table. In this case it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr. Eduard Pujol. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.190.0	President Tora, Speaker of the Parliament, Members of this House, Mr Rafel Ribó, syndic of the heaviness of Catalonia, cannot make us see that we live in a normal situation. There have been reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State claims more than two hundred years of imprisonment, so I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing sovereignism. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. We won't give up. That said, an initial question – nothing else, geography of the most elementary respect – : you imagine the appearance of the Ombudsman at the plenary of the Congress of Deputies and who were not married, Rivera or Sánchez when he was no opposition? Can I imagine? The king will naked, he will undress; the state will naked, he will undress. The report of the Synod of Greuges has made it very clear to us: "The Spanish State is being violated, the precautionary measure of deprivation of liberty, of preventive detention has been misused. October 1st there was a disproportionate use of the police force. The complete restoration of Catalonia's self-government is necessary. Do they steal more? "And it is worrying that people who have been elected and who have been in possession of their political rights cannot be candidates for the presidency of the Generality. So I turned back the syndic's report, which this late made it very clear: "They're political prisoners. If all of this were to explain to us from any country in the world, this Parliament would immediately vote for a unanimous condemnation text and we would put our hands to the head. But what's going on? Pass, that we do not speak of any country of the world, but that we speak of Catalonia, we speak of us. And then what in some other circumstance everyone would see clearly, we no longer see at one. And you know why? So because three political parties with representation in this Parliament applied Article 155. 155, you have to admit, you have co-edited them and continue, in God's faith, co-edited, and you have made an unworthy play in Catalonia. I'm talking about a terrible soundtrack, which started with the October 1st garrotes and continued sending the president of Catalonia, Carles Puigdemont, and his government's part to exile, and sending her to jail in the other half of the country's government. Everything folded is an evil; an evil that disturbs us. This week, the latest news in malsons is the threat of a sentence of more than two hundred years in prison; 214 years in prison to complete what political prisoners promised to secure in this chamber: vote. The people that the prosecution threatens with about 250 years of imprisonment are deputies and deputies, also social leaders, who a year ago loved the politics of ethics and civilization. These threats of punishment are just echoes of the 155th soundtrack. And what is – and what is – this 155? The report the syndic has submitted to us, I insist, is demolishing. 155 is a devastating machine, it's a crusher of freedom, rights, democracy and normality. 155 was an invention designed to destroy, it is an illegitimate son of the decree of Nova Planta; the decree that said: "Let the effect be noticed without the care being noticed. So, well, with 155 you have been more evil: the effect is known and care is known, because 155 is the absolute denial of the political debate free, normally. You closed this Parliament, the Parliament of all Catalans. You wanted to shut up the institutions and citizens of the country. 155 was designed from a secular allergy to democracy; it was activated for the fame of revenge, for the very short look of the revised idea of Spain one, large and free that it so much on the right as on the left. The 155th designed it as a tool of reconquest, as a political artifact to sunk the country, a giny to ruin and defuse our collective forts, which continue to be many. Its application is, in short, a mechanism created to hurt Catalonia. And that's why you're talking about normality, normality, normality; at all times normality. They speak of normality, because they want to forget the shame that they have activated against all of you, also against yourselves. But they're wrong. The days will pass, the years will pass, and the 155 will continue to have a father, mother and grandchildren. Do we see her as normal? Can we see her? They have fellow MPs in prison and exile. Why aren't they going to visit them when they invite them to go there? What's he doing to them? Mr Albiol is not there, but Mr Fernández will be able to ask him when the Vegi. Madame Arrimadas, you are there; you have arrived late, but now you are there. Do they really not have the courage to go to prison – do they really not have the courage to go to prison – and look into the eyes of those who are deputies of this chamber? Don't they have a heart? If they were consistent, they'd go. And they are mistaken, too, speaking of normality before an exceptional situation, because things are always as they are, not as they seem to be. October 1st, there were ticks, they hit us. And then the institutions came in and finished, for the law of the beginning, the government and parliament of this country. Hat! General Franco and his troops would be proud of all of you. Alert – alert – I'd be proud if you didn't know the story was going on. Because history always goes on. And we, once again, and despite everything, are here, we are depressed. Once again, they have failed their calculations when they speak of Catalonia. Catalonia always gets up. Catalunya always comes back. Because Catalonia never leaves. Catalonia appreciates democracy. And these convictions are irrefutable. These values and attitudes are what will make us a republic, the kingly thread of history that connects generations and the compromise with which we are. And that I made it clear – that I made it clear to everyone – that Catalans will never give up the exercise of the right of self-determination and the will to build the Catalan Republic peacefully and democratically. I, yes, Mr. Ribó, dialeg. Look at the head, see the reason and out the stomach. But so does justice, politics and the ballot box. They applied 155 to us to make us, to silence the political thinking that defends the national, political and social fullness of Catalonia. The state has put people in jail to get us out. But we don't have one, by the way. After years of continuous lies, Catalonia has joined, it has understood that the Spanish State, ladies and gentlemen, the State does not negotiate. The State denies or simply does not fulfill the promises it makes. Remember that famous phrase? There are people who will be sure to remember her and that she will now lower her head and try not to look at me. « Pasqual, I will support the Statute coming out of Catalonia. It is a phrase of encyclopedia, of Zapatero; of encyclopedia of political deception. And as we go, President Sanchez goes, if he doesn't, on the same path. Where's the dial? But the actual dialog. So, for this and so many other lies and incompliments, Catalonia will not pull back, it will not go back. Neither retaliated statues, nor ribots, nor lock the door to the wall with the tax pact. We'll never believe his demagogue. Because, whether it's the PP or the PSOE, there are always great tuners in Spain: blaus, vermelts, greens, and now even tarongas. You want to tune us in. You are the great tuners of a bitter melody of lies and minorities like 155. On October 3, 2017, King Philip VI, ill-humored and angry, as the grieving king of the tales that explain themselves to the mob, decided to take 'the stuff and get naked. When the king threatened the Catalans and the Catalans because we dared to vote, Philip VI became naked. The Spanish State, instead of defending democracy, decided to go against the ballot box and against the people. With repression and 155, the State and the king were left naked before Europe and the world. That they don't see it? Prou exile, prou imprisonment, prou repression. We demand that the glue, the troops of the 155 rectifiers. Democracy or 155...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.191.0	Mr. Pujol, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.192.0	...and its derivatives; the Espanya del Cid Campeador or the Catalunya de Pau Casals. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.193.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs. Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.194.0	Thank you, President. Good late, syndic; good late, company. We find ourselves here to receive the report of the Greuges Synod on the violation of public rights and freedoms, on the occasion of the criminal reaction to '1 October. The calendar has caused us to debate this report of the syndic all just after completing a year of unjust and willful preventive arrest of the government. An anniversary that the State Attorney's Office and Attorney's Office wanted to celebrate in their particular way: with petitions of more than two hundred years of imprisonment in their conjunction. We still remember "without violence, you can talk about everything. I suppose, as the small letter of the contracts that no one reads, he posed: « Violence, which, if it does not exist, we will create with creative justice and reports from the Civil Guard worthy of a Planet prize. And today we find ourselves here debating a report, characterized by rigour and compromises with the fundamental rights, where the syndic asks for the suspense of the provisional arrest and the reparation and recovery of the principles of legality, of minimal intervention and proportionality that have been clearly violated by the prosecution and the judiciary, with a disproportionate criminal treatment of the facts linked to the political conflict in Catalonia. At the time of explaining the context in which these abuses of the law occur, the syndic exposes the cruelty of the repression that occurred on October 1, including the violence of the Civil Guard and the National Police, which caused 991 injured people to close 90 electoral colleges, while the Mossos d'Esquadra peacefully managed to close 250 of them. And let me remind you that it is the disproportionate use of force by security forces that has also been denounced by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. And, also, the Council of Europe and the United Nations have called for a thorough investigation to clarify responsibilities for rape. Some will still say, with total impunity, that images are fake. The government of Pedro Sánchez has not only refused to carry out this investigation, but has decorated Enric Millo, the chief political officer for police violence and the tactic of terror and intimidation of the Security Things of the State, October 1. The prosecution, in addition to the inquisitorial persecution of independence, also seems to have as its mission to cover up the police rape of October 1. We see when the court claims to cite ninety-nine police officers, but no victims of their rape. We see when a court of Lleida admits to bringing a lawsuit against Colonel Pérez de los Cobos for having organized a police device that had as its sole objective the fear of the people, to generate terror; er, state terrorism. And what's the D.A. doing? He's asking for the case file. Make a aside to make a reference to the consequences of 155, which were many. Memorial of hardships that the workers have compiled: twenty-and-four suppressed bodies, two affected contracts, slow administration and bureaucracy... In Parliament we have already seen a large number of PRs and motions in defense of public space and defense of Catalan institutions. And the consequences of 155, who's talking about it? Citizens? P.C.S.? PP? It's like a parentheses that didn't happen, obviously; they see how Catalonia and its institutions hurt. The list of public rights and freedoms that detail the syndicate is extensive, sadly very extensive. First of all, he points out that the dissolution of Parliament and the dismissal of the Government are hardly eligible for 155; an opinion widely shared by lawyers of different ideologies before '1 October last. If we start from the comparison with other European constitutional systems, as the syndic points out, it would be necessary for measures of this exceptionality to be expressly provided for in the Constitution, and that is not the case. But, in case it wasn't enough, up to three times it came to debate the possibility of including and hearing as necessary measures..., as the dissolution of autonomous institutions during the configuration of Article 155, in the framework of the drafting process of the Constitution of 78; there was a particular vote of the People's Alliance and two UCDs in this sense, which were rejected by the chamber. The 155 applied against Catalonia assembles to the 155 he aspired to Fraga who did not approve the Spanish Constitution to 155. [[Greetings.]] As the syndic states, the application of 155 also resulted in a violation of the law on political participation, recognised in Article 23 of the Constitution, and has affected both the rights of representatives and public bodies removed in advance as the right to political participation of citizens; a violation that has been repeated constantly throughout these months. Here we could add the secret of Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Dolors Bassa, Raül Romeva and Carme Forcadell, to the temporary prison, enmig of the investiture of Jordi Turull, changing the precautionary measures, without changing the circumstances, but beyond that our deputies had voted in this hemisphere between the generation and March of this year. Seeing these measures, you can only think it was wrong. You want to apply a state of exception, as is regulated in Article 116 of the Constitution, so as to suspend or limit the rights of use. But they didn't dare and apply a 155 that was a 116 undercover. We cannot hear the 155th anniversary of an institutional or legal logic, but of a logic of revenge that permeates the entire response of the State, since the "hardest will be the fall of the prosecutor Maza until 177 years of imprisonment of the prosecutor appointed for the PSOE María José Segarra. And it's a revenge that translates into violations of rights on the part of police and judicial actions, beginning with barred manipulations to deprive political prisoners of the right to the ordinary court predetermined by law, in this case the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, and continuing for the multiple impediments that violate the right to defence, since the act of Instruction Judgement number 13 and its general case against independence, which fed the work of the National Court and the Supreme Court in an irregular way, without the defenses having knowledge of all the actions or material time to prepare for the defense of crimes as heavy and filtering recordings by political reasons as they may think fit. A defence right that will not be guaranteed in a political trial, where lawyers will see limited access to prisoners so as to prepare the defense. Where are they, where are those visions that demand to be scrupulous in the application of the law? When I should, yes, cry; but when I should, too, lower my head and shut up, "because it does not touch me, to me. The syndic also makes clear the lack of fulance of the charges of rebellion and sedition that violate the principles of criminal legality, since the reality that occurs does not end the criminal titles attributed. "If the reality is not like I want, we know: the prosecutor's office fines it for you, and add it and follow it. The performance of the courts has been characterized by a flagrant partiality that is evidenced by the syndic's report. And the same president of the Supreme Court has publicly stated that it subordinates the performance of the judiciary to the maintenance of the unit of Spain. In a normal country, this would be socially typified between hard and very hard; in a normal country, for much less people resign. Not to mention Llarena, who manifests a severe lack of impartiality in everything..., in his interlocutories, we show part of the offense for the fetuses he investigates. All of this involves and conveys a great deal of legal uncertainty to us. We give for good all the points that the syndic expresses to us: the immediate release of the policies; call dialog, and as long as we call; call politics to resolve the conflicts, and make politics is to put ballots, not to undertake politics. This morning I felt Mrs. Arrimadas telling us that she was missing the human point of view. How right you are! From Lledoners... dilluns invited her to visit Lledoners. His head, Mr. Rivera, told us he wouldn't go. Humanity. There's always a world in some eyes. We invite you again – and, also, we extend it to Mr Albiol or Mr Iceta – to discover these eyes and this world of all our political prisoners and prisoners. I can explain to him what he'll find – also, I don't think he's been able to look at me or a second. There will be serene, collectible projects, peaceful struggles, conviction in the defense of working to forge folded a possible and bright future, the desire to channel all this suffering in a constructive and positive way...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.195.0	Time's running out, Mrs. Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.196.0	... – a moment and a moment – and if I look at you in my eyes it is hard to recognize that I can only see a world of storm, confrontation, provocation, lack of humanity, which, in short, excludes most of this country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.197.0	Thank you, Mrs. Caula. Next, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units... [[Inés Arrimadas García asks to speak.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Why ask me the word, Mrs. Arrimadas?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.198.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...the same as Mr. Costa before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.199.0	One moment. [[Someone said, "Two minutes.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.200.0	Oh, thirty, instead of two. [[Widow's remorse.]] Ah, okay, that this weather goes according to who asks for the word. In short, the words are not usually given in the middle of the debates, but, since the president shows this absolute lack of impartiality, I will take advantage of it. We will not accept any lesson of morality from you, no lesson of humanity. You, who call us mad beasts, who call us not Catalans, no, but Spaniards living in Catalonia; you, who compare us to animals... We will not accept a single...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.201.0	Madame Arrimadas, I believe that if you have asked for the word for allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.202.0	For allusions, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.203.0	...it would refer to the concrete allusion they made to it, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.204.0	Are you going to interrupt me too...? I think it's amazing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.205.0	You don't have the word to make a speech, you have the word to answer the allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.206.0	I am responding to the honourable Member's allusion for lack of humanity. Do you allow me to make the reply, or can I not?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.207.0	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I gave him the word for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.208.0	The allusions, yes. May I? Yes, thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, he's just President of the Generalitat voted for you, only the President of the Generalitat has told me. In any case, I looked into the eyes of many of the people who are in prison today. And do you know what other people were doing talking to them in those days? They encouraged them to commit the crimes that led them to prison. Perhaps the people who are in prison have to ask the advisors and the people who had no charges, that without playing anything they were told to commit crimes, rather than those we met with them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.209.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.210.0	...to ask them not to commit them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.211.0	Madame Arrimadas, I gave her the word for allusions, not to make a reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.212.0	Lessons of humanity from you, not one. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.213.0	Thank you. Well, for the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word Ms. Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.214.0	Thank you, President. Many honorable President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Deputies, syndicate and all the team that accompanies you... Mr. syndicate, you have been appointed by the office you occupy to vet for the protection and defense of the rights and freedoms of all the citizens of Catalonia, of all. The Law of the Synod of Greuges says that you must be politically independent, not dependent on any government, and your actions must be objectively, free of criteria and independence. Moreover, it has the function of protecting and defending constitutional and statutory rights and freedoms in the spheres and in the form determined by the State. In other words, their skills must be exercised impartially. So look, Mr. Syndic, just a little bit about all this questions I've just raised in your report. It is neither impartial, independent nor much less able to produce reports on matters of its competence. Maybe we could say he's old enough to report his preference, not competence. We should not be discussing this report, we should present the annual report of the syndic's actions, which is a compliment, moreover, to present it in this chamber. We are also discussing today a report that has been prepared under your personal preferences and which is not necessarily a compliment to present in this House. You have preferences to prepare reports of your gratitude and very few wills to submit reports that displease you and make you feel uncomfortable. So much so that he even addressed the Speaker of Parliament to demand that the two reports, the annual one and the one we are debating today, be discussed, and that they be substantiated to the greatest possible patent. It is clear that you were already counting on the independence majority, with whom you feel very comfortable, and knew that if you asked to bring this report would be approved quickly, because it is only a matter of blowing up the pot and keeping the country tense. On the other hand, when my parliamentary group makes a formal request for me to write a report on the events that took place on the 6th and 7th of September, then his answer is strong: "I must inform you that I cannot continue his work, since the Greuges Synod is not competent to intervene in complaints which, like this, refer to parliamentary activity. Man, man, man. So the report we're debating today doesn't refer to parliamentary activity? So the Law of Self-Determination and the Law of Legal and Fundamental Transition of the Republic did not have a place in the framework of this chamber's parliamentary activity? You think that's what explains to the inside of his report, in context. Certainly, a context to which half of the report is often devoted and which does not mention in a single line the events that occurred on the 6th and 7th of September, nor even the violation of the deputies of this chamber that occurred during those two days. The consequences of placing institutions outside the law, we all know who they have been: they have failed the Rules, they have raised the right of opposition, they have fulminated the Statute and they have violated the Constitution. Remember that in this matter the Constitutional Court gave the reason to the PSC. And avoiding and obviating the 6th and 7th of September report only makes us give reason to those who see the institution that represents the service of the process. It's been a while, syndicate, that he's decided to just take part in some and leave the others out, and that's not exactly his job. As stated in his report, the laws of reference and legal transitionality were challenged before the Constitutional Court and suspended in an automatic manner. Finally, both laws were declared unconstitutional and null for the Constitutional Court. And all that went on those two days is not worth a single thought. Obviating it, as they do to the report, prevents a rigorous analysis, and I think we have to be very critical of this view, partially and skewed, that you did in your report. As you know, on October 1st, there was no consultation, no electoral union, no census targets, no early designation of the election months, and a disproportionate act of unnecessary, intolerable and unacceptable police charges is precipitated. Remember that Miquel Iceta was one of the first political leaders to come out to demand the immediate cessation of attempts to force an important citizen mobilization in a voting simulation. We believe that neither Rajoy nor Puigdemont were up, as they were unable to push the dialogue and should have called early elections in Catalonia as well as in Spain. Everyone will remember what happened on October 10th, when President Puigdemont appeared in Parliament to report on his political situation and said: "I assume to present to you the results of the reference before all of you and before our fellow citizens..., the mandate of the people of Catalonia becomes an independent state in the form of a republic. And he went on to say: "With the same solemnity, the government and I propose that the Parliament suspend the effects of the declaration of independence, so that, on the very next week, it starts a dialog without which it is not possible to reach an agreed solution. From this plethora and from the statement, the Government of the State set aside the 155 application process. Do you know why 155 was applied? So because, for..., it was applied to be able to restore the institutions that you were loaded with. Defining article 155 with a criminal issue does not seem a good idea to us, since they are clearly separated, and, as such, they should be dealt with. Making this barrage, like at least, gives little to the confusion and does not contribute to the solution of the problem, which, if it has a political rift, it has not been treated either..., has not been treated for one or the other. It also has a legal derivative that must be settled in the courts. Mr President, the 155 that you have been supporting as a result of the evils is more likely as a result of the September 6th and 7th plenary sessions, which is why we believe you cannot deal with it in detail... All of these events culminated, as you know, on the 21st of September, in a few new elections, which, despite the fact that your report does not say so, resulted in a parliamentary majority, but not in a social majority. Another small, syndic, skewer that does not appear in your report. They know who said: « Catalonia is not independent because there was not a majority who wanted it or « Can't half impose another solution on you because you are convinced? Well, no more or less than Mr. Tardà. And he also said, with another expression, Mr. Campuzano: "It takes more time to strengthen the social majority. Perhaps it would be useful to do a self-reflection of what independence has done badly, don't you think? Perhaps they don't believe it, but when one of their leaders in that legitimate government said: "The declaration of independence was a toast to the sun, we weren't on condition to bring it to practice, maybe, and maybe, some things were done wrong. Finally, as I have said on a number of occasions, my group believes that the preventive detention regime that the Supreme Court court has imposed on the new defendants in the case of '1 October heavy, and all pleas should already be freed, and more recently, that the investigation has been completed. And that's what a Member of Parliament tells you that she has always, always, tried to have a great deal of empathy with everyone, especially the prisoners. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I do not believe – and I finish – that the syndic lord wants to legally value the actions that are detailed here. MPs and MPs, in this Parliament it's been a long time since we can talk about everything, and you, syndicate, precisely, make reports in which impartiality is not the basis of your practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.215.0	Thank you, Mrs. Moreta. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can. The word has Mr. Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.216.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good late; deputies and deputies, Mr Ribó, syndic, to you and to all the team accompanying you, very late. I think it has to start – I did it in another intervention of the syndic in this chamber, and given the debate he is giving himself – for some obviations and some reminders that should never be forgotten. The Mayor of Greuges is an independent institution of the Government of Catalonia. According to this Parliament, it is the one who approves the premise, and before this Parliament presents its reports and reports to it. If this Parliament is not happy with the Synod, I can criticize it, even if I can fail, but it is our job to do it. The syndic of Greuges is also a part of the structure of human rights in Catalonia. Catalonia has a structure for the control of human rights, and, therefore, the Synod regularly has a follow-up of reports, some of which each year are present in this parliamentary chamber, and some others are exceptionally fanciful. I invite all Members who are not members of the Commission of the Syndic on 12 November to the Commission of the Syndic, in which the Syndic will present a report on the right to housing and a report on the universalization of healthcare. I am sure that opposition groups will find political ammunition in these reports, and perhaps some criticisms and complaints that have been shown here today will make this Commission of the Syndic happy, when we listen to criticisms that, with all certainty, we find in the report of the syndic at the time of analysing political determinations that the Government develops. What do I mean by that? I've said it once before, I'll say it today and I'll say it a thousand times: the syndic is not at the service of anyone, as in the institution, sometimes he presents reports that we like and sometimes he presents reports that we don't like. And we need to be tough and mature, deputies and deputies. The report presented today is rigorous, it is also destructive, from the point of view of the analysis and the conclusions it presents. And some facts as hard as the ones described here deserve a plenary session of the Parliament of Catalonia to make this debate. And, therefore, it has been a certainty that the Board of Spokespersons has agreed that, in plenary, we are dealing with this report, which we could also have dealt with the Board of Trustees, but that we are not really talking about small things. And although for some, the facts of repression and imprisonment may not have any importance, for a very substantial part of the political forces of this Parliament and of the people of Catalonia, they have a great importance. And, therefore, we must take this seriously. State criminal action is only a small part of democracy. And, obviously, criminal action, when it occupies the centrality of democratic action, means that something does not work well. And this is the debate that is bringing us this report: that criminal action, as I said this morning, is eating politics. And that's a very serious thing, which is important for the syndic to remember, but it wouldn't take the syndic of heavyweights to come to the parliamentary chamber to remind us that this is happening. And, moreover, when there are the measures of exception to the only political response that the State is capable of articulating, such as, for example, the articulation of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, so it also means that something is not working well. Because if the summary is criminal action and exceptional measures, this democracy goes to the race, deputies and deputies. And that's one thing the syndic's warning us about in his report. I would like to recall that the syndic remembers that the crime of summoning or organizing referrals by authorities without competence, obviously..., to do so, therefore, to say that the organization of these referrals without competence are excluded from the Criminal Code, concretely, to the Organic Law 2/2005, of 22 June, that the law expresses concretely: "The Spanish Constitution and the conjunction of the legal order already have sufficient and adequate instruments to ensure respect for the legality and democratic institutions and to ensure the peaceful coexistence of all citizens. I recall some of these instruments: Article 161.2 of the Constitution, which allows the automatic suspension of parliamentary acts, which was produced, and, therefore, once the parliamentary act has been suspected by the Constitutional Court, this act is non-existent; and also, Law 15/2015, the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which it has. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , which provides the Constitutional Court with executive capacity. Therefore, this is a reality, that we had instruments without putting people in jail. We had instruments without applying 155, but a certain government with the support of other political forces chose not for these instruments, which obviously meant that criminal action would have been minimal and proportionate, but to use criminal action as the only political action. And when a government doesn't understand politics only that like bars and prisons, this government is, forgive me, a democratic cartoon, which was Mariano Rajoy's government at the time to address the conflict in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] That's what it was: a democratic caricature. [[Greetings.]] Obviously, the articulation, the application of article 155 of the Spanish Constitution does not have legal coverage to suspend phone rights. Even though 155 applies, the phone rights continue to feel the phone rights. In order to suspend fundamental rights, Article 55.1 or 116 of the Spanish Constitution had to be applied, which may be suspended in whole or in part. He was also in the law, and that didn't apply. And through Article 155 and through disproportionate criminal action, what was done was to attack phonental rights. And, as I said, the syndic has to act, because the syndic has a parliamentary mandate, it is not that he makes the reports that please him or that do not like him. If there is a violation of the fundamental rights in Catalonia, the syndic has the obligation to make a report, to explain it and to denounce it, because to some it seems very good that the syndic makes reports and puts the cry to him with the problem, for example, of the minors not accompanied—that, if they find it—a thing that the syndic must denounce and I also agree that the syndic must denounce it because it affects the phonological rights of minors, but obviously, if there have also been other phonomental rights, the syndic must also denounce them. So let's go back to what we say: we need to be tough and mature, and not just listen or want to listen to the music we like and move from the institutionality we have as the Parliament of Catalonia to work and to discuss. I'm done. The list of violations of these fundamental rights is gross - it's gross - deputies and deputies. And only that one of these lists of fundamental rights has been violated, we already have a difficult problem in Catalan society and in Spanish society: parliamentary inviolability, predeterminate judge by law, right of defence, principles of criminal legality, rebellion, sedición, criminal organization, terrorism, provisional detention, personal freedom, ideological freedom, political rights, judicial impartiality, right to effective judicial protection, freedom of expression, assembly and demonstration and freedom of information. Deu-n'hi-do – deu-n'hi-do –, this report that the syndic carries, that I must say that it is also based on other reports of human rights organizations of private character, but also reports of other organizations of human rights of public character, such as the Council of Europe. We have a problem, and even though Ciutadans or the People's Party or even the whole Socialist Party puts its head under the wing, the problem does not go away; the problem we have before us and we have to get this good for the banyas. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.217.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.218.0	Good late, syndic, deputy general, attached and other members of the syndic's office, parliamentary workers and deputies. The rule of law is not eliminated because there is a will to form another state, another state of law; the rule of law is eliminated when the exercise of fundamental rights is given as a response to what is contrary to the principle of legality and to what does not respect the dignity of persons. Of the synthetic report of the Greuges Synod, nor of the conclusions alone, it can be seen in a very clear way how there is an authentic internal blast of the state of law on the part of the Spanish State. And this internal blast is realized through the systemic violation of phonental rights. First of all, the inviolability of this Parliament: we were able to see how the Constitutional Court said that it could not be president of the Generality of Catalonia nor would it allow the person of President Carles Puigdemont to vote in this Parliament; we were able to see everything, then, as in relation to Deputy Jordi Sànchez the Supreme Court said that it could not be a candidate for the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia. And you don't say it, because it's up until April 30, but we say it, we can see with the Llarena court interlocutor who determines who are or aren't the rights of certain Members and how it can be temporarily replaced, transforming what is a judge, of the judiciary, into legislative power. And, obviously, that also completely breaks the right state. In relation to what we call « Catalonia macro cause, what has been the reality? Therefore, all these principles that must inspire the performance of the criminal proceedings have been broken: the ordinary pre-determinate judge for the law, the outlaws, the outlaws that should be held by a judge – if correspondents, the court – before the High Court of Justice of Catalonia and not before the Supreme Court. But there's one other thing that doesn't say the syndic's report and we think it's also very important: the rules of division. Llarena wasn't supposed to be an instructor. You don't say the CUP - Constituent Creed, but you say a demand for an association of judges, who argue that they changed the rules of division because it was the judge Llarena who instructed the procedure. Principles of legality, I think it is very clear that there is no crime of rebellion, there has been no violence, but neither has there been sedition. He was able to act in a normal way both the Civil Guard and the Legacy of the Administration of Justice. And the biggest proof of that is that obviously the performances came from the first moment they tried – from the first day and the only one they tried – because that performance was obviously possible. Judicial impartiality, completely broken: not only is it spoken by telephone between the electorates of the Constitutional Court and members of the Government of that moment, of the People's Party, of the Government of the Spanish State, but also that the judiciary or, rather, the high judiciary values politically and legally what is happening in Catalonia and the same judicial procedure. And the breach of effective judicial protection: a thousand wounded and wounded that the prosecution, in compliment of its obligations, does not investigate and does not pursue this crime. And that, at last, and we still don't know on the basis that, in the actions of the macro-cause, the Supreme Court denies the existence of these wounds and these wounds. For time, it will not give us time to make reference to provisional detention, personal liberty, ideological freedom or political freedom, but we do want to make a small reference to what is the other part of the syndic's report, acting in relation to Article 155. We think that this article, obviously, should not exist in the form that exists, but let us say another thing, that its application is not only illegal, but that it responds to a certain political model that is that of the Francois Fraga Iribarne, the Francois Minister founder of the Popular Alliance, People's Party, who made a constitutional statement that he understood to have applied this article 155, which is how it has now been applied. And, therefore, with an element not incorporated in the constitutional question, an act absolutely illegal– absolutely illegal. That's right, it connects with what is really the Spanish State: Francoist origin to its judicial apparatus and when they need, because there are some of its fundamental principles, to recover that essence, so it applies as it understood that essence of the thought that was not approved, that presented the People's Alliance through the person of Mr Fraga Iribarne. Unfortunately, this application came not only from the People's Party, but from the Socialist Party and Citizens' Party. And last but not least, we do not expect anything from the high Spanish judiciary; therefore, no one generates any element of thinking that we will have results there. And so, given this, we'll end up just as we finished the last time the heavyweight syndic was present in this Parliament, which is with a phrase from a Puerto Rican independenceist, Pedro Albizu Campos, who says that when tyranny is law, revolution is order. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.219.0	Thank you, Congressman. All followed, and to finish this return, I correspond, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, to Ms. Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.220.0	Thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, are curious, Mr Sindico de Peugeges, that today you have started your speech here alluding to what should have been your task, to present the 2017 Report of the Sindico de Greuges. But you have not come here today to be a syndic of hardships, today you have come here to be a political commissioner, you have come to be a rapporteur of the independence process, you have come, in short, to be part of the government bench and to support the independence parties in your account, once again, machaconically, about the famous oppression of the people of Catalonia, that Catalonia which Mr Pujol was talking about, which seems to belong to you, just as his Pujol playboy said, that Catalonia was also them and they had gone in to steal from their home. But this is not the case, and Catalonia, fortunately, is much more plural, as can be seen in this Parliament. And since the report you are presenting to us today is not only what you should present in this parliamentary chamber rather than as a political commissioner, but also a report that is missing from one of its functions, its powers as set out in the law governing its institution, that is to say, that of impartiality, independence and objectivity – Article 2 of the Law of the Greuges Syndic – the People's Party invites citizens and the Socialist Party to function and implement Article 14.1f of the Law of the Greuges Syndic, that we activate the procedure to request the immediate cessation of negligence in the performance of their functions and duties to the sindic of heaviness, which no longer acts as such, in defence of the rights of Catalans and Catalans, but is a political commissioner of the independenceists. And as such, he can't stay a minute longer in office. We do not need to expect, as the spokesman for Citizens said, at the end of the year, we can do already. If citizens and the Socialist Party and the People's Party present this initiative, the syndic of heaviness today pleads, because we send him home. Because if you do not come here to defend the rights of Catalans and Catalans, but come here to continue the story initiated by Mr Torra this morning in that intervention that has been invented to continue with the independenceist rattlesnake, you are not fulfilling your duties. Since you did not perform your duties as a trade union sign on September 6 and 7, you said that you did not intervene in this. What is the matter with you, Mr. Sindico de Peugeges, that the non-independence Catalans are not under your protection, that we do not deserve to have rights that are respected by us? Just like the Catalans we saw how our tax data was used to make illegal consultations. Don't we deserve your protection, Mr. Heavyweight Syndic? After fourteen years you should know what your functions are. And if you do not know them and you prefer to be a political commissioner, of course what you cannot do is to discredit an institution so important for the respect of the rights of Catalans and Catalans. And I think the time has come, and that is why we offer political parties that by activating this mechanism and this initiative, the best recommendation that can be made today from this rostrum to the syndic of pelages is that it ceases, that it bends and that, of course, it does not continue to use an institution..., as they already do with TV3, as they already do with all the chiringuitos, embassies that are created to follow the narrative and the independenceist rattlesnake, that it does not continue to be a more paid structure by all Catalans to follow the toxic narrative of nationalism, but that we put at the head of this institution a person who really defends and respects the rights of all Catalans and Catalans. You, Mr Syndic, have shown today that it is not objective, that it is partial, on the part, independent, and that, of course, you have not acted here independently, but that you have once again come to account for the alleged aggravation and the alleged negative consequences that the legal and democratic application of a mechanism to safeguard the self-government of Catalonia had. And that, of course, had no consequence, that you can count, negative. Because tell me about the two-thousand places of teachers that were called, tell me about the 3-million that were released to pay for health care, tell me about the agreements that were untied in social services...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.221.0	Lady Levy, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.222.0	You are not talking about this, because you are only talking about the speech of the political commissioner given to you by the independence parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.223.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To finish and thank the interventions of the parliamentary groups, the syndic can intervene again, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.224.0	Thank you, President. The syndic used the mechanism provided for in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which when it submits a report may ask the Bureau to agree to discuss 'the plenary', and for this reason today we are discussing this point on this report, delivered to May. And I have also announced that I have delivered at the fever – as you can understand, I do not set the parliamentary calendar – it is asked, repeatedly, that the annual report is now before the plenary. It will depend on all of you. So everyone here is pressing about the annual report, so I'm putting out the mechanisms that depend on you. Before we get into... some information I think is necessary to get people out of the misinformation. One that is very specific and specific: if anyone wants to make a letter to my colleagues, who does not use the expression 'unbreakable adherence, it is the one that I was taught to Form the National Spirit to myself. [[Widow's remorse. Greetings.]] She's very revealing of who makes her serve. I was doing it with an intruder, I was doing it with an intruder, not in a parliament, no, there was a party that was the National Movement. And whoever did not make unbreakable adherence could go, depending on the years, or to the Boot Camp or the Model or exile. It is an expression that I suggest to whom it is, to whom I would like to use it to be taken into account; I do not know how we would translate it into French or English. Let me give you information on issues that have been discussed. The term "nationality" is the term that brought the most debate to the constituent, and I don't want to drift away like a professor who had been to college. During the Republic, there was a lot of controversy about private property, religion, territorial power... In the Constitution of 78, which really brings to debate thousands of articles and confrontation is the term "nationality," which ends, as Jordi Solé Tura explains, president of the ponència on the day it was inserted in the text, with a writing – it's in a book that, huh? – up to the Moncloa, which says: « It is the last thing they accept, when they possess three times« the indissoluble unity of Spain. And it can easily be assumed who the..., "is the last thing they accept. But the term is there; there is in the debate they constitute, that you have thousands of articles and that – forgive that, as I don't have it, it's the only time I'll ever "dress a little – it's the subject of my doctoral thesis in the United States. It's a theme that gives place to absolutely open interpretations about distinguishing between territorial units. And this is the opportunity that is lost when they practice policies like coffee for everyone or others that they put on the market. More information. Miri, contingent personnel, we have for you, all the defenders: the people and all the autonomists. The advisors must be personal, if any, of trust. They can neither Rafel Ribó, nor xx that succeeds me, nor Anton Cañellas, nor Frederic Rahola, nor Paco Fernández Marugán..., names that would... Look at the law, look at the law: it is obliged by law that the personal advisor is possible. So, please, let me know. I admit all the criticisms, and I believe that the debate must be solid from the criticisms, not from ignoring the concrete data that is practiced in institutions. More information. Do you know that from all over planet Earth the only democracy that has the territorial structure of the State, so that it has or devolution, or regions, or autonomous communities or Länder – do I hear the expression? – the only one who has a defender who can get into all the reasons of the structure is Spain? Do you know how surprised they are in Belgium, Canada, the United Kingdom, Italy - a vagina citing what they are saying - that, when the legislator of this house more congresses of the deputies and Senate tried to approve this figure, as happens to all the ombudsmen where there is territorial structure, the Constitutional said it was not constitutional? It's one of the articles that got deleted out of hand. More information. On September 25th, I went to the Palau de la Généralita to a quarter of a god of the evening approximately, as had been the case other times, as I had been in contact with Moncloa, with the Courts, with the leaders of all parliamentary groups here and most of them, together with Cardinal Homella and President Urkullu – who I would also like to see who wants to be filled by the pending disqualifications – trying to make a table and fall for dialogue. And that day, in addition, I carried a charge from a person who was in Soto del Real, which is said Jordi Sánchez ; it was the first time I visited him, and he said to me: "I transmit especially to the President of the Generality that arrest her does not serve anything, that I can call elections and that everyone continues to think that he wants to give up his ideals. Imagine yourself – forgive me that I am now staying in your territory – that there have been a few cases of this view transferred. I think it's very important that when there are debates, especially arguments, there is no escape from the actual evidence. One hundred and fifty-five effects. I think they have a commission – gosh, I've seen it start working – on the effects of 155. They have very serious reports of respect, some facts for the same civilian servers, you will function of the Generality, some fact for the syndic. For example, the Pact against School Segregation, which is the most important instrument we could have in Catalonia to achieve the equal opportunities of schools, is escaped with 155. Who's to say it didn't have any negative effects? The stack of complaints about social transfers that are paralyzed from 155. And I can continue, and I hope that someday we can explain to the relevant committee that it is analyzing these effects. And I'll be right in on the report itself. I am sorry to say that I believe that very few of the speakers have entered the report. The serious question is why you don't go in there, why you don't make proposals. On today's report, on the writing, on the two previous ones, on the annual one, on which I have spoken, there is a qualification of the illegalities that are committed in this Parliament and it is said how they can be fought, and I have argued a good part of the presentation: from the appropriate instruments. In the report you have – and I explained it to you by Easter – as the syndic, who received complaints about the October 1st cents, addressed the Catalan Data Protection Authority and the relevant advice to resolve all the complaints that are rebien. In the report – and I am very pleased that you have had as a minimum the attention of some who have spoken – it is clear that there are effective measures on the part of the State to combat those illegals, and I have not heard any intervention that contradicts this information. This is a debate, this is a report. If anyone believes they were not, they can say: "Syndical, you're wrong, there are no such measures. But it's as if I say it's not night now, because there's a very long list of applied measures that have taken immediate effect. This is the hypothesis that is used in this report. Or, for example, no argument against what the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe says. Not this or that author: the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we participate Spanish with its parliamentarians. Cap argued against the letter of the European Commission of Human Rights or Mr Thorbjørn Jagland, Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. They're doing everything they want from some of the quotes in the report, from Jean-Paul Costa or Mrs. Tulkens. Know..., an expert of the European Court of Human Rights for many years, ex-vice-president of the European Court of Human Rights for many years, collaborators in the report, that if after a party has published it, therefore, opportunity that it has held this party; but the report is superrigorous of people who have held to Europe the confidence of all that chamber of the Council of Europe that has elevated them to such an important honor as it is to be a member of the European Court of Human Rights. The report talks about how rights and freedoms have been suspected and speaks, in concrete terms, that the Spanish Government does not apply 116, which is the article of the Constitution to suspend rights and freedoms. And why not the app? Because, if you applied it, you should have communicated it to the Human Rights Committee of Europe, which could have said: "There is no place. We have an article for this to the Constitution; I am in the political, institutional, constitutional world, not the Criminal Code. And this article was not used. And that's what it says in the syndic's report, which I think has been very little discussed in the interventions. Mirin, forwardward reflection: everyone weighs what they weigh according to popular will, everyone weighs what they get with a vote on the part of the people. This syndic, the year 2004, was voted for by all the smaller parliamentary groups for Convergence and Union, I held the confidence of all the smaller parliamentary groups Convergence and Union, which was the majority parliamentary group, and denied me their confidence. From the People's Group to any group, whatever they want. At the renewal of the mandate, when they made the new law, after the new Statute, I was proposed to all parliamentary groups in the chamber; you know which vote you each have later. And they have the syndic's law a mechanism by which, if choosing the syndic is three_five_parts, they can set aside three_five_parts the syndic's resignation when there is motive to ask it, it would only be missing! We're in democracy and there's no one that's untouchable. That's the same rule. But everyone weighs what they can weigh, what they can get to war. All those who do not see that we are in front of a very deep issue, that the syndic does not generate any comfort. The guarantee that writing these reports is not comfortable, years on the contrary, much reduced, as much reduced as you see 'lscom is confronted with such important issues that they deserve to be added, so improved when I come out of prison and I feel the middle doors that are tanked behind people that are unjustly locked in those prisons, so reduced to see that the vast majority of Catalonian citizens are complaining that there are proposals to go forward, very far from what you legitimately think is the game of seeing as Andalusians, to see as we present it... because we are touching the soft of the bone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.225.0	Sindic, I'm asking you to go through with it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.226.0	... – I finish in a minute, President–, we are touching the spring of the institution's bone, which, if we don't fix – forgive me for telling you what I'm going to say right now–, we will trigate generations to refer to the left; not the left to Catalonia, no: the left to the whole Spanish democracy. We will triage generations, because we need to tones of pedagogy and courage. Lyndon Johnson, Democrat president pulling conservative, signs the Law of Civil Rights of the Southern States, thanks to which today they have many rights, and says: "We will cheat many years, the Democrats, to win again in these states; but it has the courage to sign that law. I'm sorry I came back on November 7th. We call freedoms, amnesty and principles of the State as the first step in the exercise of the right to self-determination. That's what he used to take from Carlins to Trotskyists. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.227.0	Thank you, syndic. Now there's a turn of the groups for if they want to position themselves, a turn of five minutes. If you ask, huh? Yes, Mr. Carrizosa? So when he wants to. Five minutes per parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.228.0	Mr President, this is the first time in my life that I have heard of freedom, amnesty and the principles of the 32nd Statute to see what self-determination is all about. Was it not freedom, amnesty and autonomy? Aren't those the slogans, Mr. Syndic? Look, the advisors. You say: "No, everyone has advisors. They have advisors, but, Mr. Syndic, the reasonable thing would be for you to have five or six advisors, not twenty-seven, because if you have twenty-seven what you're doing is pulling officials to put people to your finger, and that's a law fraud. You have officials you call advisors, but you can throw them out. It should replace both advisors per staff member. You too, syndic – here you have reiterated – want to take away from us the right, to the Catalans, to come also, if you wish, to you or to the Spanish national Ombudsman. Where is the interest in taking away the rights of Catalans, Mr Sindico, from the people and from the rights of the people? Why is a syndic eager to cut the rights of Catalans? For keeping the chiringuito, I guess. Second thing. You insist on the most harmful effects of the 155, as if the 155..., we were here so calm and suddenly someone gives something to him and, bam! , puts us the Constitution in Catalonia. Why? What happened? How did 155 get here? I mean, 155 is bad bad... and if you don't get to apply 155, what would happen? What did we have? A declaration of independence and does not apply the Constitution in Catalonia? You mean that if we didn't apply the 155 is good..., because then the declaration of independence has triumphed, because, as the Constitution does not apply in Catalonia, the coups triumph. That's what you'd like. Most Catalans, no, and the largest group in the chamber, neither. In addition, the rights of Members were violated, not with a small mouth, with a very large mouth. We have been trampled on, as, by the way, this Parliament is doing at every moment, because already this Parliament..., and allow me the exorbitation, but I think it interests you, because for that you are the syndic of heavyweights, right? Well, look, in this Parliament you see, when you sometimes take a turn for hints, if you are a gentleman who is a friend of Mr Torrent you are given two_minutes, or three_minutes, you are given. I've never seen him before. From thirty seconds we passed to two_minutes with Mr. Costa, because he is a companion of Mr. Torrent's Bureau. And then Mrs. Arrimadas, who asks for allusions too, is discussed and given thirty seconds. Well, then, this – this –, which already seems like a class of a school that has fallen apart, this is the Parliament of Catalonia. With a bad teacher or a bad director of studies, the school begins to be because parents get their hair pointed at what's going on in this school. This is what is happening in this degraded Parliament, which opens it to us and closes it to us whenever they want. That's what's going on, Mr. heavyweight syndic, who watches that administrations don't abuse their power. I mean, do you want examples of abuse of power? Today we have had in your own debate; see, Mr Syndic, do not close your eyes to what your friends are doing. Finally, the Catalan Data Protection Authority, you say what happened, of course. They massively steal data from all Catalans. Judge Vidal brags about it in his day, that it's not legal what we're doing. They steal our data to get us into the databases of an illegal referendum and you pass it to the Data Protection Agency. Of course, the Data Protection Agency does nothing. Do you do anything when the Data Protection Agency does nothing? Well, nothing, nothing at all, why? If they are the same, if you are with them, if you were with them the day before the coup, you say, to mediate. Look, we don't expect anything, Mr Syndic of the Process, or Mr Syndic of the Government, we don't expect anything from you. We only hope that, in February, when the mandate expires..., that already, we, have already seen that we ask nothing of him, right? , that we do not ask for your intervention at all; we have asked for your resignation; well, do not cling to the chair, go with dignity. We will fight because, given the example, it will be very difficult for political forces to agree on their successor. And I would ask you, after the fourteen years that it has been and the repudiation of many of the representatives of the Catalans, to have the decency to go, for..., with your work accomplished, with your work for yours accomplished, and without making too much noise, and let us end this stage of a syndicate that is no longer of the Catalans, it is no longer of the people, it is no longer of hardship, it is of the process and of the Government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.229.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr. Eduard Pujol. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.230.0	Well, Mr President of Parliament, President Torra, Members, Members, Councillors, I will certainly not run out of time for my intervention, but there is something to say. From the start, syndicate of heavy goods, thanks for the report, thanks for putting on the light; it's a demolishing report. You, surely, today... you're already big enough to defend yourself, you're big enough. When I was... a few years ago I had followed him a lot in his interventions here in Parliament and his dialectic fencing, and he was brilliant and he still feels brilliant. Therefore, I do not know who came to defend him, but surely you today did not imagine that you would say to him political commissioner, « fraud of the law, « chiringuito. It is that it is very big to have to intervene after the intervention and the barbarity that we have come to listen to in this Parliament, it is very big. Because, actually, you're right. Lucky that you asked us not to talk to the stomach, lucky that you asked no, lucky that you asked right, lucky that you asked for politics, because, if not, I don't know what Mr. Carrizosa would have said. Mr. Carrizosa, you are a very good speaker. You have tics, resources, that are very good. But go to The Comedy Club, dedicate yourself to another genera. But please – please – do not come to this Parliament – do not come to this Parliament. [[Widow's remorse.]] I took him where he wanted, I took him to prove before all these gentlemen and these gentlemen, these Members and Members, that you don't know what you mean by respect– you don't know what you mean by respect– [[applause]] Because you didn't respect us. His modus vivendi is disrespectful. You don't respect Parliament, you don't respect Members, you don't respect..., when it suits, it doesn't respect Councillors, when it suits, it doesn't respect..., we disrespect the President of Catalonia; when it suits, we treat Mr Torrent, the President of this Parliament, without respect. It's his specialty, it's the specialty of the house: not to respect. And this way we're not doing well. Mr. Carrizosa, I'm sure we're not doing well. This can't be a tavern at four o'clock in the morning. This cannot be a tavern, I insist, at four o'clock in the morning. We must return to respect, and it is very difficult to return to respect after their interventions, indeed, it is very difficult; they are a tribute to bad education, because bad education is not only not to say what words may be missing, bad education is also nonverbal communication, bad education is also all, this is all... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, look, I'll make it clear: you're a loser – you're a loser. And you live by it, exactly by it. Therefore, I insist, respect the institutions of this country. And I know why you live by disrespect, because institutions, all institutions of all countries – of all countries – are to be respected, and disrespect is a subtle way of carrying intangibles. Why, do you know what's going on? The countries are made up of tangibles and intangibles. One tangible way of charging this Parliament is to apply 155, effectively, it was done very well; and then there are intangibles, which is not meeting unwritten standards, the standards of conduct of an institution like this Parliament. Please, Mr. Carrizosa and Company – Mr. Carrizosa and Company –: respect. [[Greetings.]] Before the end – before the end – Mrs. Levy, only a prec. When I heard you say that we can activate mechanisms, I put my hands to the head, because the last time they activated a mechanism they did a wreck that is said to be 155. Please, don't activate any more mechanisms; they've already done it and it's been a disaster. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.231.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.232.0	For some very clear remarks, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.233.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.234.0	Yeah. Well, Mr Pujol, you called me "failure." Look, I respect everyone very much, but what I demand is that Parliament respect Members and Catalans. If in a parliament that has perpetrated a coup against democracy, such as the one you commanded and the one you devised, and that later protect yourselves by lying that we have political prisoners when it is clear that it is the people who directed the coup against democracy, it seems to me simply a delusion – a delusion. And I'll tell you something else, and that's it. We have not disrespected anyone personally. I believe that people who do, invent as president a person who calls us « beasts, « mad beasts, « beasts who shout and put resources, etc..... That they continually allude to our lack of humanity, dehumanize us as has been done in other times of history very reprehensible, that it has been intended to dehumanize on the contrary, you do this continuously. That is why I ask you to respect Parliament, to respect also the rules of this Parliament, to respect us and then probably the debates can be less painful and less moved for all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.235.0	There's the word now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Anna Caula. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.236.0	Thank you, syndic. Thank you, above all, for the layout, to present us, once more, a tool that, as a minimum, has to reflect on us, continues with the direction that each of you listens to, but has to reflect on us. And, also, subscribe to what Mr. Pujol said: I don't know where you will put the shield of respect, I don't know how you interpret to speak with respect to the company. Tanmateix, I'm telling you it's hard for me to hear how you understand respect. So, in defense of the Catalan school, as we said before, I was going to the institute, and I think that if you have presented a work of course fiber using many of the words that you use, with the descriptions that you do, to me my high school teacher, who taught me how to consider studying, you have suspected me. And you've thanked him. Because they probably teach us to express ourselves in another way, to be constructive at the Catalan school. [[remorse of the voice]] , being................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.237.0	One moment, Mrs. Caula. I've already told them that if they don't care what the speaker is saying, they're coming out of the hemisphere, and if they're not, if they're here, respect, quiet, and listen. Mrs. Caula, come in.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.238.0	And I'd follow a little bit about the syndic's report, which is what we came to talk about today. He talks to us about a few points he calls the immediate release of political prisoners while he is not holding a fully guaranteed trial. He also talks to us about creating, among all, a dialect built to provide a political solution to a political conflict. It also tells us to strengthen the fundamental rights and democratic guarantees in the face of its erosion. And the recovery of the principles of minimal criminal and constitutional intervention. And he's actually also asking us to investigate a disproportionate police action. To me, as we're talking about school today, it's like going back to P3, it's like going out to this cliff to talk about getting back some small rights that should already be guaranteed. Returning to what we say, I do not spend much time here in Parliament, but I do remember Mrs Naomi of the Street, I remember other Members of Ciutadans making statements about the characteristics and the positive aspects of the heavyweight syndic when she presented a childhood report, when she presented a report to the Commission for Social Affairs. Caldria may recover what they gave at that time of the Greuges Synod. And here I would only add to the words, and I would not be able to define better how Mr Nuet made it that we need to be strict enough to know how to listen and analyze what we like when the wind is blowing in favor and what we don't like when the wind is blowing against. Also, make us aware of the trunk box that maybe we've all opened to the Spanish State with 155. We have recently found ourselves as Pablo Casado, as Albert Rivera, today even Mr. Carrizosa compete to see who is looking for the lowest excuse to apply 155. Be aware of what the PSC leaders have done with their follow-up, they have enabled a 155 that seems discretionary. Why with a majority of the PP and Citizens in the Senate, who will be in charge of ensuring that 155 is not converted into a tool at the discretion of the right-hand side of VOX? The same Constitutional Court that still, as the syndic said, has not responded to the consultation on the constitutionality of 155 that was set up in Xavier Domènech and that he had to present it because the Generality was legally defenceless before its application. Another bust that also points to us by the heavyweight syndic. What do you think, that will resolve before the Constitutional Court, the 155 appeal or the appeal that purports to invalidate a resolution of this Parliament just because it questions the role of the monarchy? Therefore, let us begin to reflect in what sense the Constitutional Court functions. And we regret – and we regret – that it seems that the PSOE government before reading the syndic's report continues to base its action on the delirious reports of the Civil Guard written by day colonels and night Twitter trolls. Because the solution is not in 177 years of prison that asks the prosecutor or 117 that asks the lawyer of the State, the wrong solution in correcting injustice and the recognition of the political demands of the majority of the city of Catalonia, an 80_per_cent asks the right to decide. As Vice-President Aragonese claimed, the saying passed to Lledoners: freedom, absolution and self-determination. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.239.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mrs Marta Moreta. [[Pause. Marta Moreta Rovira lowers the Faristol.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.240.0	It's down there, it's very high; in Pujol it's very high... Well, syndicate, today I think he's lost the opportunity, really, to be impartial, and that all the people of Catalonia see him as the syndic of all. So it's hard for me to know that you didn't do it. And I would also like to say to him that on 155, we insist that we do not believe that it is possible to speak side by side and separate from the whole process, and less than the 6th and 7th of September. And I'm going back to complaining: I don't know what to do about making a report on September 6th and 7th. It's just that we don't understand. So much for making this report? Really? And one thing, because I'll be very short – very short, very short. Tell Mr. Pujol, with all the charm, and with all the empathy he can say, because it seems to me he didn't hear me say anything out of place. But I would really like to see this deal, this one respect the people we usually talk about in this Parliament, and today it has been so much talked about, it is also possible to come across the words that some of your people have spoken this morning. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And it is to say that « royal cynicism for Parliament's ports of call, to tell Mr Iceta... [[some applause]] Frankly, I don't think it's really treating people as they deserve, because it seems to me that Mr.Iceta has never – ever – had an attitude outside of respect for people. More. And the other thing, too, I would say, since I have the president before me, who, as he has not answered, seems very normal to us either. "We have lost the opportunity to humanize ourselves. He said to us, to the Socialists: "We have lost opportunity... I feel very human, and very empathetic, and I would never be able to treat people like you have done. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.241.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.242.0	Yes, thank you, President. Syndic, thank you again for the presentation of your report. You know that our parliamentary group in Madrid, the Unitos Podemos Parliamentary Group, filed an appeal before the Constitutional Court against the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. We're still waiting for an answer. I think that answer will come late and badly. And, therefore, I added to his words: there were solutions and he pulled for the right, and that was a hard political irresponsibility that we would pay for for many years. And, therefore, our concern. Mirin, deputies and deputies, to me, too, one of the interventions I have listened to has made me ashamed. I have to tell them the truth. I think this Parliament deserves something better. But we must not allow the chasm to win the parliamentary debate. Cryspace is the gateway [[applause]] ...,the cricket is the gateway to irrationality, and irrationality is what justifies repression. And of repression, this country, and these people who saw in this land that is called Catalunya, we do not want it or need it. So they won't pass. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.243.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.244.0	When the object cannot be criticized, or is not intended to criticize the object, the author of the object is criticized, but what would have been interesting is that today, here, there has been a political proposal against the one giving the syndic's report, which is what we missed, and we gave it with all respect in this plenary today. We also want to say: the Catalan public school is the heritage of all. And here there are deputies from all political groups, surely – surely – who have gone to the Catalan public school. Voters from all political groups going to the Catalan public school. But we also ask that when certain comparisons are made, therefore, it is very respectful or very respectful, because even the worst of classes, with the highest order of the Catalan school, usually shows more respect than certain actions that we live in this Parliament. And we can tell him, anyone who's ever been to the Catalan public school. He has asked us, and no one is giving him an answer, the syndic lord: proposals, alternatives to the situation we have. We'll surely give it to the sindic lord, they won't please him. First. It is a clear proposal to defend the fundamental rights, which will not be through the Spanish judiciary. And for us this answer is the adulteress, the history of how we won rights. How did we win the right of way? : I'm off the hook. How did we win the right to meet? : gatherings. How did we win the protest right? : making demonstrations, when they weren't legal – when they weren't legal – but this was the way we won them. And another more general proposal: that of building a republic. In this ongoing process of building a republic, which is not to change one flag for another, it is to win rights. The syndic has not said this, but I do know that the CUP is not a nationalist organization, it is an independent organization. Therefore, I can already imagine that we have no sympathy for the solitude, absolutely no, our rebellion; that is, we have the utmost respect – the utmost respect – for which the Assembly of Catalonia meant and which meant, above all in its constitution, the year 71, when the freedom of those who constituted it was played. And if the data do not fail, of the four essential proposals of 71 held by the Assembly of Catalonia, the first was: social rights and political rights; the second was amnesty, and the third was to return to a statute, which was that of 32, which was that of a republic, but it also said, as I did not foresee the right of self-determination. Therefore, we do not want to forget this anniversary, of the Assembly of Catalonia. And taking advantage of today's day, we don't want to forget another anniversary: a hundred or birthdays of the Bolshevik revolution. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.245.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return of Congresswoman Andrea Levy, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.246.0	From the seat. Mr Pujol, I understand that you, Mr Pujol, were recently director of RAC1 and from that you have, I imagine, ceased to want to command, or to give orders, or to offend the Members of this House. But you're one more deputy. You, in this chamber, have no right to come here to fight... as a deputy does, as a deputy expresses himself. The problem, Mr Pujol, is not that you do not like it as Members say, it is that you do not like it to be expressed. [[remorse of the voice]] Members of Parliament. Because you know the problem? Yes, that is part of your totalitarian nationalist ideology: you want to harass, point out and you want to go against all political dissent in this Parliament. And that's why he went to the rostrum to disrespect MPs who are not independenceists. The problem, of course... sorry, Mr. President, is that it's not taking my time, so I'm not just gonna have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.247.0	I'm sorry, you're right, we didn't squeeze it in there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.248.0	I'll talk less, but to control it from the seat. Thank you very much. But I say to you: listen, here everyone has the right to express themselves as they consider fit without you coming to fight us, because you are no longer director of anything, you are a deputy more, as any of the hundred_thirty_y_five that we are like this, here. So watch out for the forms and watch out for that totalitarianism that always takes on the patita when you intervene. Mr President, I think you should reflect that those of us in this House and we are not independentists have not given you the support for your report. The problem with your report is not what it says, it is what it does not say, and that is why it is a partial, interested and unobjective report. You hide a reality, you just point to the independence reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.249.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Pujol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.250.0	For allusions. Mrs. Levi, you've done me a lot of thanks... [[Pause.]] Man'm? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.251.0	Forward, forward, Mr. Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.252.0	He thanked me very much... it's the lift, which costs a lot to talk to these microphones; let's see if this one's any luckier. To you, Mrs Levi, it's not that I don't like it, it's that he doesn't like what I say. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's just that I'm not going into discussions, really, I'm not going into it. Only one thing: I would like any Member of this House to raise the word and ask me the day I threatened someone in this House. Opinions may be very diverse, but the permanent threat you are living in is certainly not going to be used. No, no, no, they're alienating themselves from the threat. Listen to me, he's passed the stage of his intervention careful...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.253.0	Mr. Pujol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.254.0	...and watch out and watch out. Watch out for what? – beware of what? Listen to me, the day we express ourselves from the threat, that someone makes me see it and I will give them the reason. But while respecting, respecting, respecting. I'd just miss it! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.255.0	All right. Ended this point, we only have to thank in the name of the chamber, the syndic and his team, the participation and presentation of the report. Thank you very much, syndicate of heavy lifting and equipment. [[Decree-Law No 5/2018 of 16 October 2018 on the increase in remuneration for 2018 and the system of improvements in the economic benefit of temporary disability applicable to public sector staff]] [[203-00005/12]] And we're still on the order of the day. The next point is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 5/2018, of October 16, on the increase in remuneration for 2018 and the better system of the economic benefit of temporary disability applicable to public sector staff. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Digital Policy and Public Administration Adviser will speak to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. It has the word, therefore, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Counsellor of Digital Policies and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.256.0	Well, thank you, President. Very late, Members and Members, the truth is that I would never have imagined that my first intervention from this Faristol would be to remember that we cannot see that we live in a normal situation. There have been reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State claims more than two hundred years in prison. That is why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. We won't give up. That said, I appear before this chamber today to present and demand the vote in favour of the validation of Decree Law 5/2018, on the increase in remuneration for 2018 and the system of better economic benefits of temporary incapacity applicable to public sector staff. It is a decree approved by the Government at the session of October 16th and which derives from the agreement reached with the majority unions at the general negotiating table of the public employment of the Government of Catalonia on September 18th. This decree, therefore, derives from the work that was done at the Civil Service Bureau, which is the organ in which the union and the government are close to dialogue. Therefore, I want to begin my intervention, first of all, by thanking the UGT and the Workers' Commissions, here today, to the Chamber, which has facilitated the settlement of agreements for which it makes the increase in remuneration to apply to the public workers of the Generality, therefore, and therefore, that they do not lose power. And also, it respects the better of the economic performance of temporary disability, advancing in this way in the recovery of lost rights. The Government's willingness to apply urgently the best in the working and remunerative conditions of public employees and the current situation of presuppositional prorogation has necessitated the approval of the decree that I present to you today. Maybe not to resort to the figure of the law decree, if it wasn't because with 155 he closed our Parliament and took over the government. If we haven't been able to pay until today, it's by the work and thanks of the parents of 155, today also present in this room. If it were not for this situation of democratic abnormality of 155, surely we could have negotiated and approved a law of assumptions that would have incorporated this agreement into a presuppositional item in an automatic manner. For what it does to the content of the decree, there are two articles. The first allows the increase in the remuneration of the '1.95_per_cent of the salary mass of the staff of the Generalitat. This increase amounted to a total expenditure of nearly 226_million euros. In concrete terms, the maximum increment of '1,75, authorized for the Law of general assumptions of the State, applies, and we add to it the additional 0,20_per_cent. According to the agreement with the unions, this additional 0,20_per_cent of the wage mass is intended to homogenize wages according to the hourly dedication, so that the amount of the specific complement or group complement for the workers of working places with ordinary workdays is increased linearly. Thus, work places with lower pay will have an increase proportionally higher than those with higher pay. Or go on, the ones that get the least are the ones that get the most. From the past month of October, public workers and workers are already aware of the salary increase of 1.75_per_cent. The Generality will pay all the arrears before the end of the year, and it will do so in the following way: at the November payroll they have already received the fixed salary increment of '1,50 and the variable salary increment of '0.25_per_cent, with effects from '1 July; at the November payroll they will receive the corresponding arrears to the fixed salary increment of '1,50 correspondents to the period between 1 of generation and 30 June, and finally, at the December payroll they will perceive the additional increment of 0,2_per_cent, with effects from the 1 of generation. The decree also includes, in its second article, the measure by which the staff of the Generality will receive the cent_percent of the wages from the first day for temporary incapacity. This means that they will charge the cent_per_cent of the sum in the event of being down, in all assumptions and from the first day, returning to the 2012 situation, before the application of the State Law of Presuppositional Stability and Promotion of Competitiveness. It's fair of you to do that. An exhibition of the willingness that this government has since the first day with its workers are the six agreements reached in the first months of the legislature, agreements made with trade union organizations in matters such as the selection of interested personnel or with which I present them today, among others. And it is true – and it is true – that with the return of the extraordinary payments of 2013 and 2014 we have not yet reached an agreement. But it didn't come to an agreement. It doesn't mean that this government stopped working there. This shows the two final actions in this sense: first, to bring a first proposal for scheduling to the Public Employment Negotiating Bureau, and second, to meet with the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service, Mrs Meritxell Batet, bearing in the order of the day, as the first and main point of the order of the day, the request for flexibility of the additional provision 41a of the State Law of Presumptions, which prevents us from making use of suitable resources to return the payments. Do you know what the minister's answer was? A couple of doors, a sound a couple of doors to the rights of the public workers of the Generality. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, it was like that. Still – and so on – and in the hope of a change in the criteria of the State on this assumption, the Government of the Generality has brought to the Public Employment Negotiating Table a proposal for a timetable for the return of the 2013 and 2014 foreign payments; it is a first proposal. And also the addition of productivity, the foundation of social action and the pension scheme. It is a calendar of trading and return payments pending payment, which amounts to about €1,100_million; a very high amount, which forces you to distribute your return over several years. The department, as well as the difficulties, kept its willingness to negotiate intact. In this respect, I would like to inform you that we would insist on negotiating with the unions, with the aim of working together on a proposal. I want to make it clear that the Government's will is to work for the continuous and permanent improvement of the working conditions of the employees of the Generality. In this sense, I think they endorse our six agreements in just five months of government. I am convinced that we will bring more positive initiatives to Parliament, such as today's, the result of the dialogue and negotiation. For all these reasons, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the validation of this decree, which has already enabled the workers of the Generality to enjoy the best in their rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.257.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, let's go to the intervention of the groups to fix their position. In the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Lord Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.258.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, very good afternoons to everyone; a greeting also to the trade union representatives who are with us today. Well, today they bring us to debate and vote a decree that pursues a pay increase for 2018 and improvements in temporary benefits for incapacity for work. Today we are going to talk about labour rights, and we agree – you have asked for the vote in favour – we fully agree that these agreements should be negotiated and reached, especially when agreement is reached at all trade union bureaux. What happens is, if we talk about labor rights... I'm telling you, we're going to approve this decree and we're not going to entertain ourselves much more. In fact, let's talk about the decrees that you should bring and don't bring. Because, if we talk about labour rights, there are many decrees that should come to this Parliament and not come. If we talk about labour rights we would have to talk about all the rights that you have cut since the beginning of the process. They have cut in all areas: they have cut in health, they have cut in education, they have cut in social policies, and they have also cut obviously in workers' rights. We already knew that for you workers' rights have never been a priority. You have had other priorities, as it has been dividing the Catalans, and, look, this has been achieved. We're still in time to bring it back, but they've done it. But in this legislature I believe that the grievances and the lack of respect for public workers have gone beyond that. And you've gone further with your appointment, Mr. Puignero. I'll detail it to you. We already told you in your appearance: when you first appeared, you brought us a powerpoint, devoted almost an hour to talking about digital policies and only three minutes to talking about public service. Yes, look, and besides, my criticism coincides with the criticism made by the unions in their appearance. And, look, we already told you, that you've been made a tailor-made consultant, because you were the process computer, and since you couldn't make the normal republic, in the real world, now you want to make a digital one, and you've been given a toy to play digital republics. But do you know what's going on? They've had the mistake of putting the public service there, and we'll be there to defend workers' rights. Look, and this I'm telling you is shown by your activity. You are seen taking photos with robots, with drones, even with fiber optic cables, but few photos and few deals we see that you arrive with the unions. In fact, when you have meetings with the unions, you better not have them, because you go and insult them, with the proposal to return the extra pay in eight years. Look, with your proposal... Mr Batet was telling us – I don't see him here – in an exercise of immense demagogy, that how we were not able to look into the eyes of the prisoners' relatives; for I don't know how you, after this proposal, are going to look public workers in the eyes. Look, the public workers, with the proposal you have made, will just collect this pay in 2016, and the total pay for 2014, thirteen years later. And, look, the issue of the Budget Stability Act, the expenditure rule, it does have some ground, but to me it seems like an excuse for a bad payer. Do you know why? Because all the state administrations – and the Generalitat de Catalunya is state, even if you don't like it – are all subject to these laws that you have mentioned, even the municipalities, to which you owe millions of euros, owe millions of euros and owe them years ago. [[Funnel veils]] ... – yes, yes, yes – and they adopted a motion for a resolution. And the municipalities have fulfilled and paid these double wages to their officials. I don't know what face you go to a meeting with the unions and tell them there is no money, when on the other hand you do a press conference and announce that you are going to submit bids worth 900_million_de_euro to continue with your digital stunt. Which... They are priorities; in the end, it is a matter of priorities. And, look, I'd be ashamed of myself that, the same month that you make this proposal to the unions, you present the chiringuito of the Office of Political Rights i Civils, the Council Counsellor, the Council for the Republic, and that you laugh at this proposal. And, forgive me, I have told you only the chiringuites you created in October, because if I tell you all those you created in these years would spend the ten_minutes of intervention. And it is that your ease to place plugs and livers of the process is directly proportional to the precariousness and temporality to which you submit to the public workers. Look, we've already talked about it, according to your data, there's a 30_per_cent gap when the European Union recommends for administrations a range of 8 or 10_per_cent gap. We have criticized you many times, but it is that we have the suspicion, and also reiterated, that you are already doing well, because you are specialists in pressing public officials, in making them comply with your political guidelines... So, the more insecurity and the more instability, for you, the better. Do you remember Lluís Llach, who said: "Will officials who do not follow our guidelines suffer? Do you know where Lluís Llach is now? Plugged into one of his little chiringuitos. And, look, and finally, I wanted to talk about another labor law that you constantly ignore, and it's the right – I know that for you it's not a right, because you systematically violate it – it's the right that we all have, but also the public workers, to work in a space free of political symbolism. Look, that's how it looked. [[the orator shows an image]] Do you recognize this building? She's in Via Laietana and she's dependent on her counseling. So it looked last week, that we took this photograph; they have turned it into a sanctuary for separatist prisoners. And we reiterate to him that they remove the ties. We already know that the request, that the question, every time we ask you if you are going to withdraw it, is rhetorical, but we will not stop insisting. We have told you this by both active and passive, and that you have improved the forms of pressure on public workers in your workplaces. Mr. Bargalló was speaking – I don't see him here now – of the Great Orwellian Brother. Do you know what the Great Orwellian Brother is? What you do at the Girona Government Delegation: a loudspeaker, the megaphony emitting psychophonies, calling on public workers to call for demonstrations in favor of those who have violated the law and democracy in this chamber. And yes, I have told them psychophonies, because in the end they are the sounds of a process that, in our opinion, is already dead. And, look, here I want to change my interlocutor, I want to address the Socialist Party of Catalonia. The Generalitat, as I have told you, is a state and the buildings dependent on the Generalitat are buildings dependent on the state. You have already seen that you have tried to please them and this morning you have already told them that you are not going to approve the budgets, so stop trying not to offend them and attend to those millions of Catalans who feel helpless by the Government of Spain. Please attend to them because, among other things, among them, among those millions of Catalans, there are also their voters. And I would like to conclude with two messages, one for you, counselor, and for your government, and one for public workers. We tell you what we always say: to get your hands off the public workers, to clean up the public space from their political symbolism, and we also ask you to return the stolen rights to the workers as soon as possible. You know that we will be on top of you, as we have done in all these years of process, where you have committed the barbarities you have committed. And finally I would like to address the public workers, the public servants, all those officials of the Administration – teachers, nurses, doctors, police, firemen, social workers – all those people who in moments of cut-off, who in times of crisis have maintained the state of well-being and have maintained that dignity that this Administration has lacked. Let them know that Citizens will continue to defend their rights and that they will also know that they will not have to wait eight years for their pay to be returned, because I am sure that long before we will be able to change this government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.259.0	Thank you, Congressman. on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.260.0	Thank you, President. Benvolguts advisors, good afternoon. It's too late for the unions to come with us this morning. Look, counselor, I don't know where to start, because you said so many things that I'd like to replicate... To begin with, tell him one thing: 155 was applied because you were charged with self-government at the September 6th and 7th plenary sessions. And as you carried the valid legality that was there at that time, someone had to incorporate it, to recover it. And he did, unfortunately, the government of the State. So much you didn't carry it, but it was like that. If President Puigdemont had called for elections that very same October 26, the elections would have been held on September 20th, and we probably couldn't have had any assumptions approved by the 2018 generation. Therefore, his argument does not serve. Look, if you're the 31st generation had a president sorted out, maybe you could have approved a premise on March, and you wouldn't need an excuse either to say you didn't approve this decree until today because you didn't have any assumptions, because 155... you were with 155 more days because you didn't sort out a president, which wasn't for the application of this 155 by the state government. But, well, that's not the subject of this decree, but I think it's worth it, too, sometimes, to be able to say some things about his report, which I think sometimes incorporates a lot of lies. Above all, because this excuse that you say about the assumption we could also apply it now. If you want to make a presupposition, and at these times you don't have any impediments, you haven't presented it yet. According to the law, you should have introduced her on October 10. Today is 6 or 7 November, and we still don't have it on the table. Therefore, they must also make a presuppositional extension. We wear eight years with presuppositional prorogation; eight years that the presuppositions are presented without completing with the date. So we're not on the first occasion we find ourselves at this point either. But, well, now what we are debating here – and I hope we approve it; and, in fact, we will also vote in favour – is the Decree Ill 5/2018, which is nothing other than the application of the Law of General Presumptions of the State – let us remember that it was approved by the People's Party – and which incorporated some 1.5-per-cent pay increments, it is true, and then some 1.25-year-old additionals, second to a definite GDP, and then an additional 0.20, as well as one hundred_per-cent of the wages of temporary incapacity from the first day. So..., you say: "We have signed an agreement with the unions on this. Home, this is in the Law of General Presumptions of the State, and what enabled this law was that the autonomous communities could bring it to an end. You brought it to the table, and that, obviously, was agreed because it was a benefit; it did not only affect Catalonia, but it affected the whole State, and that it applied to each of the autonomous communities. So, four, five chords, I don't think they can say it so cheerfully. There was a timely law enforcement agreement, which is the State General Presuppositions Act, which was approved in March 2018. That's what we approve of today. That's what we're going to discuss today and not another thing. And so, so, I think it's also good to say things. In that band, counselor, you didn't get along with the unions yet. And I could have done it. Yeah. Miri, the other day, at the October 31st meeting, you weren't there. I don't think that's true, but we've also seen other advisors who, when the subject was very important, have attended the meetings. In any case, I would like to remind you that the year 2016 was already four years old that had retaliated the 2012 pay. And it was the end of a meeting that the unions convened to all the parliamentary groups – at that time there were Joints for the yes, that I think he did not come to the meeting – that came up with a motion for a resolution, that was approved on the 20th generation of 2016, in which we forced or asked the government, therefore, that this 2012 payment was paid. And then it's true that it's been scheduled in three years, even expanding it to 2018, very much in spite of us. And then he asked that a calendar be approved for 2013 and 2014. So, look, they've spent three years – three years – and we didn't have a calendar. Three years – three. So much so that on October 9th – and before my group president commented – he put forward a motion for a resolution, in the general policy debate, to establish a timetable. Since the government is incapable of asserting 'if it agrees, well, so, look, a proposal. And it was approved. That's the bad luck, counselor, that they held you, that's approved. And what it was approved was: a, the 10_per_cent of the pay of 2013 enguany, 2018. Certainly, an agreement that had already reached the unions by July 2017 with Constellera Borràs – Government of President Puigdemont – had already arrived. It was a written compromise, granted. And, therefore, we believe that it should be completed. I, then, above all, that the one who was not paid for 2018 is paid for 2019, and that of 2014 2020. So, two years and then we can return these payments. Listen, I'd like to say this: it's not that the unions are asking for it, it's that you pay them are part of their self, it's their right. They're not asking for better, changing their working conditions, it's their rights, it's part of their self. We're all working for a while, too. And you've been taking a few payments from them for many years, and it seems you don't want to return them there. Because the answer that President Torra made today, so I think it's pretty indecent. Because I could have said, "Look, we're working on it now that we're designing the assumptions. Look, let's see..., it's 1,100_million euros, it's a lot of money, we have to prioritize. But he didn't say that. And then this answer about Minister Batet, who you also explained to us that you said you made him a doorman. Miri, a doorman did it to the union the other day, to the General Bureau of the Civil Service, who presents them with a calendar so that from here to eight years they cover the pay. That's a door. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, man, sir. Listen to one thing, can you explain to me how, all the autonomous communities, the State..., all the autonomous communities, the State and the joints have returned the payments complete the expense floor? So why they prioritized spending on their assumptions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Puignero, it's called prioritizing. And Mr. Aragones knows very well, now that he's defining the assumptions. Prioritize. There are many things, I know: education, salvation... Yes, yes, many, very important. I'm not in the government. If there were, then, surely we would prioritize it here. Because it seems to us important and indecent that after so many years of retailing and making the collection of you work the crisis..., that you have not made it pay, by the way, to what they have most, because tax reforms in this Parliament have not seen one. Now, that's right, we dared to cut the bottoms off when you'd work and say we'd go back to the top of 14 years. It's that you're indecent; honestly, indecent. Therefore, listen to me, your priority in the assumptions that you will have to present us here a part of the pay, the full pay, and I agree with the unions, which is what it is for them to do. But that's why we need to talk. And you have to have dialog, negotiation skills, so you can get to these agreements, which is, frankly, what we think you don't have, and that's why we're here. And now I'll say it: Mr. Puignero, don't say that again on the expense floor. Mr. Aragones doesn't know what you have to think, but here, with Mr. Cid, we presented a motion for a resolution... – it wasn't the general policy debate, I think it was the next, the coexistence one – we presented a joint motion to ask the Congress to change the expense floor and the deficit object. Do you know what your group and the Republican Left Group voted for? Do you know what the Junta Group voted for for Catalonia and the Republican Left? Not – but – that they didn't want to change the expense floor and the deficit object. That's what they voted for. And they will say: "No, for political reasons, I don't know what... No, no, that proposal... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, that motion for a resolution said that, and you voted no. Here they come to make other speeches: "No, Mrs. Batet... Miri, Mrs. Batet has approved the second state agreement to benefit and improve the conditions of public workers, eh? , in the themes of parental leave, that the 5_percent of the day is able to dedicate to conciliation... See when these agreements arrive here. Honestly, don't choke, don't apologize, because you'll pay for all this in the end. Honestly, I don't think they deserve it, the more than 250,000 you'll work in Catalonia. I think they deserve a little more respect, consideration, and, above all, that they look at them in the eyes... – so much so that they like them, to you, look at the eyes –, that they look at the eyes, that they are able to negotiate with them and tell them things as they are; that I think they can hear everything. In fact, we already negotiated, that 2016, that in three years we would pay the 2012 pay. So... I'm sure they're flexible now. What's not the point is to show up in a table with a calendar of eight years, when the director general, the day before, a few hours before, had told us in attendance at the committee that they were carrying a calendar, that they were sure that everything would go well. Well, we see how well it went that it lasted two minutes sitting on the table, they got up, they left, and the worst is that they've already announced mobilizations. And, therefore, this means that the environment will not be reliable and of all that an agreement needs. Therefore, I, Mr. Puignero, ask you that, beyond what brings us today, that it is an application of this Law of General Presumptions of the State, it has the capacity of dialogue, negotiation and pact with the unions, that it is a collection that has suffered and is pating much of the details, that it is respecting the resolutions that arise in this Parliament – that it costs you a little, this theme – and, above all, that it is willing to solve the problems; that is, to govern. And that's what makes solutions and no excuses for a bad payer. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.261.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Then, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.262.0	Thank you, President. Look, counselor, we'll give support to the decree, but I'm telling you, we'll give support to the decree because we're being asked by the public workers, because if it's because of their speech, shut down and let's go, I'm telling you with all honesty. We will vote yes, of course, because in this case, we assume that Catalan public workers are regaining power, and, in any case, we also follow all and all aware that we are applying to what the People's Party has approved in its general assumptions of the year 2018. You've got one thing right, which is that, for what he does to the rights of Catalan workers, he even wins the PP. It's a drag, let me tell you. Or so, you have succeeded in finding that what has been the main party that has related the rights of workers and workers, not only of public workers and workers, and all the steps forward in the recovery of rights. Jo, as in government, a success, I would say, "spectacular. But, anyway, I also wanted to say, look, you didn't go any further... – I also say this to make it clear –, that is, you didn't go any further than the PP does in the Law of Presumptions. I mean, there's not a... or a little bit more out there. So it's not something we can take care of either. And what's positive – which is what they haven't done, and now I'll mention it – with the double payments from 2013 and 2014, which they got at the General Negotiating Table with an agreement with public employees, with workers' representatives, which I think is how to do and how to work in this case with public workers. But, of course, if we talk about the rights and salaries of public workers – and surely you also knew that – we cannot help talking, in this case, about the double payment of the year 2013 and 2014. Look, I'll say it, as my friend says, clearly and català: what they're doing with double payments is a real shame. But I..., it is obvious that there is an exceptional situation; we have denounced it, but you are also carrying out absolutely unfair actions for what you do to the rights of public workers. [[Widow's remorse.]] I know, Counselor, that the subject of public workers certainly does not matter, but if it doesn't matter, Counselor... [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Counselor, I'm addressing you. If it doesn't matter the debate of the public workers, and even, if it comes down, it can go away, because nothing happens. Anyway, I'm telling you that, as I said..., I think it's essential that we return the pay to public workers from 2013 and 2014. And the unions themselves have said so, or so, their proposal is unworthy. You said today: "No, it was a first proposal. Look, I don't know, I... maybe you say it's a first proposal, but it seems like a first provocation to me. And so it's like the public workers took it. Because, of course, you came here to say that the relationship with the unions and with the public workers was perfect, it was conja. But, look, counselor, if they're taking over the councilhouse! They occupied the councillor's office and said that until you came not to leave, because you were absolutely lost with what you had submitted and with the proposal that you had made. Then... Therefore, I believe that what you are planting is absolutely unacceptable. Really? Yeah. A person who lost his double pay the year 2013 will not be able to recover it in its totality until the year 2026? You still aspire, the year 2026, to be a General Councillor? Do you think you can be a guarantor, 2026, of an agreement that is signed now? What guarantees do the public workers and workers have that the year 2026 will be able to charge double pay? You can't give any guarantee; among other things – I'll mention it later – because they are constantly failing to comply with the agreements they sign with the unions. But let's say one more thing, you..., and in this Parliament we have all claimed the work that the public workers have done at times of detail to guarantee public services, and also during 155. I agree: public workers have supported public services during the retail era and also during the implementation of 155. But, of course, the answer cannot be cut to the screen. If we have to recover rights, then let's work to recover rights. I already know that the situation is very complex, but it is that you are not fulfilling an agreement that you signed with the unions. The year 2017, you agreed that the year 2018 would return as at least the 10_per_cent of the double pay of 2013. And they're inconclusive. So, are we talking about the sovereignty of Parliament, what has been approved in this Parliament, what have you signed? What guarantee do the unions or public workers have, in this case, that those who sign today will be charged for the year 2026, if you have been unable to pay the 10_per_cent that you would have to pay for this year? The problem is that his word..., but not just his word: his signature is no longer valid for public workers. Public workers want these resources to be at the presupposition of the year 2019. So, you... you've occupied his office, you've raised him... [[Funnel veils]] , – yes – they have been raised from the negotiating table... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, then, if it's not like that, then explain it to the union that they say it is, but anyway, it went out on TV3, or so, look what I'm saying. But in any case, so don't say that the relationship with the unions is perfect, because you've broken the relationship with the unions of the public workers. And, look, this morning, the vice president, and in this case, the president, too, found that all the fault we're living with is the rule of spending. Look, I recognize them, yes, the Presuppositional Enabling Law is an authentic mess, and the expense rule is also one that creates enormous difficulties, but I want to make them as two considerations. The first, the Presuppositional Enabling Law, was approved by the People's Party and Convergence and Union, so ask for explanations to people who have secured in their accounts and to their government, because there are some who are converging black-footed, who are in their government, and explain them..., and ask them what they approved the Presuppositional Enabling Law, which is an authentic disarranged. And then, which has blocked the modification of the Law of Presupposition to the Table of Congress, which can also block certain measures, such as, for example, the modification of the minimum wage or the modification of the Law of Urban Leases is a majority that is of PP and Citizens at the Table, but this majority allowed it to you. You allowed the Congress to have a majority in the Bureau that is this. It was the PDECAT who allowed it. So, come on, now: "Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, what were we wrong? Because if we had a majority different from the Congressional Bureau, we couldn't have blocked it. And, as Mrs Romero said, it's difficult, at the last plenary, because it's not that we ask for the modification of the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, which we said is that we are introducing the Catalan groups to the Congress to stop blocking the modification of the Law of Presuppositional Enabling to the Table. And they vote against Junts per Catalunya, they vote against Esquerra and save them—forgive the expression—the dishes cut off in Ciutadans. Because they voted together with Ciutadans, Together for Catalonia and Esquerra to block a political declaration, which we urge the Catalan groups to stop blocking what you limit their spending, in this case, on the assumptions of the Generality. Okay. Inexplicable. Well, yes, explainable, yes, because he took them from a beekeeper, because they lost a resolution, in this case, in the debate with Ciutadans. That was... that's why you voted against what we put you up to. And, look, there's a second thing that also... if we want to talk about spending rule. You have legitimately decided – and I respect this – to block the assumptions and the agreement of assumptions that united We can with Mr. Pedro Sánchez. Or follow, legitimately, you can make the decisions you think, we respect them even though we don't share them, and in any case, what we ask you to do is explain what you mean, that. And Mr. Pere Aragonès knows that. Mr Pere Aragonès signed an agreement, in this case, with the Government of the State, of EUR 350 million more for Catalonia, which were not subject to the expenditure rule: for Mossos... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, no, no, that they were not under the rule of expense, and that they are included in the general assumptions of the State. And, this, you have decided that it's the same, that these 350_million, so if they don't get to Catalonia, it's the same. And that makes us have some assumptions from the Generality that it will be much worse in 2019 and that its margin is smaller. So, I respect your decision, but explain it. Explain that you are giving up 350_millions that could be used to improve, among other things, the under-the-tops of the functions and functions, or, in this case, to recover a share of the double payment, to have more moves, to pay the zero-three, or to decide what this Parliament of Catalonia believes to be done on the premises. And, you know that, and you have to explain it too, because that is also what will happen when you block the generality's assumptions. Therefore, I end up with a final reflection that I also want to convey to you: who is thinking that Catalonia in Comú We can give support or facilitate the approval of the assumptions of Catalonia with an agreement that I do not agree with the public workers, it is that I do not know each other, it is that I do not know what we will do. We will not vote, either abstain or support the generality's assumptions, if there are not the resources needed to recover the rights of public workers. Look, I'm telling you, I know you like symbolism a lot, but it's just that public workers can't wait any longer than facts and not symbols. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.263.0	Thank you, Mr. Cid. Next, for the Parliamentary Subgroup CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.264.0	Short-term reduction of 5_percent in working hours and adjustment of agreements and consensus on teaching and sanitation; reduction of working hours and remuneration of 15_percent in working hours; reduction of extra pay in 2012, reduction of the equivalent of an extraordinary pay in the 2013-2014 financial year; temporary suspension of the Social Welfare Fund; temporary suspension of the support system; temporary suspension of contributions to pension plans; temporary suspension of subscription of the productivity supplement; paralysis of public employment offers; suspension of execution of public offers approved not convened; deletion of the best of the temporary incapacity; modification of the enhancement of the cent_percent during the first year of the reduction of the working day to the execution of public offers approved not convened; deletion of the best of the temporary incapacity; modification of the cancellation of the cent_percent during the first year of the termination of the day in order of the syndicate; deletion of the termination of the termination of the termination of the sentence; This is the reality in which workers and public workers found themselves in the past few years. It is true that there have been some elements that have changed in relation to hourly flexibility, temporary incapacity or union hours, but this is the reality in which the workers and public workers of our country find themselves. It is also true that there is a part of those details that have an origin in the basic state legislation, but there is no doubt that, from the beginning or the beginning... better said, from the first report to which I have referred, that it is from the tripartite government, until the end, of the parties that are now part of the government, there have been students who have benefited from the application of the neoliberal ones. This is the reality we have. We also have to say in a very clear way that, in general terms, we have not yet recovered or initiated a process of recovering the rights of workers and workers in the public sector; in general terms, they have not initiated it. And in this context, today, they bring us to validation a decree that has two articles. A first article, u, that refers to a pay increment of '1,5_per_cent with data effects of 1 of gener; and a second increment of 0.25_per_cent with data effects of 1 of July of 2018. In the band, what is contemplated by the law decree is an authorization to negotiate an additional increment of 0.2_per_cent in the salary mass, which may be related to: approval of the destination supplement, better productivity or pension plans. Why are we saying all this? So why, in the first place, is there a transfer – the first part – of the basic increments of the State. All right, all right, And a _one part that can be an enabler for 0.2_per_cent. But we're asking them for something else, counselor. Don't say the increment is 1,95 because we'll say it, with all due respect: it's fake. The increment is of the '1,825_per_cent, if at the end it is applied to this variable of 0.2_per_cent. Why? For one simple question: because there is an increment that has a date of effects of July 1 and another that has the 1st generation. If we combine the year, in the best of assumptions, it will be this 1,825_per_cent. That's right, you have to tell us, today you told us for the first time that it will apply to the disembarkation – it seemed to us to hear – this 0.20. You have to tell the workers and the workers themselves tomorrow, and put them in writing, because until today it has not yet materialized, and it is not what the decree says, that it is simply a power to negotiate, to collective bargaining, or to agreements that can be held with the employees and with the employees. Second aspect, or second article: the improvement of temporary disability. We already agree that there is a cent_per_cent of IT. Yes, he also says: « fixed and periodic concepts, which leaves out some other concepts, and therefore will not always be the cent_per_cent. But the problem is not so much about this, which may seem normal and usual to us in the application of the cent_per_cent of the IT, but that, once they have increased or generalized this cent_per_cent of the IT, they have left no agreed effects for which they recognize thirty hours that could be used annually to justify absences linked to malalties. And all this does not concern us as much as any other issue, which is happening day by day to public workers as well. We're just as incomplete agreements here in Parliament, but the agreements they sign with the workers' representatives and the workers are to complete them, and if they sign that there is a 10_per_cent of the pay that is paid in 2018, 2018 is to be paid. You don't have to wait to see it as a business until now. And if, at a time, you arrive at a settlement that you are giving to public workers and public workers who, in relation to the 2013 and 2014 payments, will charge them between 2019 and 2027, so, look, this is an absolute decrease not only for the representatives but also for the groups of workers and workers in the public sector. And we make another reflection, which is not for the councillor, but for the government: how do they want to build a republic, how do they want to expand the social base? That's it? With this treatment we're giving to the public workers and the public workers? This is essential for us. Not for what it means only as in the public sector, but for what it means for the social progress of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.265.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.266.0	Without a public sector – and I'm done, president –...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.267.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.268.0	...potentially, we won't have a construction of a republic and we won't even have a society with social justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.269.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.270.0	All right, good afternoon, Counselor. I have to tell him I listened to him carefully and I have to recognize a virtue, huh? We didn't know each other at all, but politically I must admit that you have the virtue of barring, of turning everything around, absolutely... that lack of professionalism on your part, and, above all, with what it refers to the action of the staff with 155. And turn it all on, and turn it on that it's 155's fault. He even had the feeling that the 155 pairs, the matches that we are the 155 pairs..., look, I have to say to him: I only know my father, who knows, the Sandro and the Nadia, and I can also assure him that if I were a 155 father, things would have gone differently. I can have absolute peace and security that things would surely have gone differently. So, now what we're bringing here is a decree that allows for an increase of '1,5_per_cent to the public workers of the Generality, which we celebrate, but let's say things as they are: if this increase can last with the salaries of the Generality staff, this is possible thanks to the assumptions of the State prepared for the Government of the People's Party, which is certainly now finished – they were approved by the People's Party – applying the Socialist Party. And that's the only reality because you're gonna be able to get 1.5 percent more, because if you're stuck with it, you know how they spend it, you know what it's like to act, you know what respect is for the economic rights that the public workers of the Government of Catalonia have, and it's that they have the sad honor of being the only public workers of the whole country, of the whole state, huh? , which have yet to collect payments for the years 2013 and 2014. So, now what you're doing here is bringing to approval an aspect that you're obliged to carry, this basic legislation, because you don't have any other room for manoeuvre, because you don't have, let's face it, another possibility. And I would also like to point out... at this time, and it is that in relation to these salaries of public employees, here are two attitudes: there is an attitude which is that of the People's Party, which includes in times of greatest difficulty, when we were ruling the central government, we improved the economic and labor conditions of public officials; and then there is a second attitude, huh? , a second way of doing, a second way of hearing what is the respect that public workers deserve, which is the way you have, the way the Socialist Party has – and let's just say – to cut wages and cut out foreign payments. And when it's also loaned, even though it's not close today, so if the pensions are laid for the middle, they freeze the pensions too. And on this subject, I would not want to recall again, because I do not know if it is necessary or not, but that the workers of the Government of Catalonia, at these times, as I said, must surely be thinking: "And why are we the only public servants, why are we the only workers of the Administration to whom we still owe this part of what is ours, of what is our wages, of what happens at a time of exceptional crisis in the country? And in these moments, where, so, well, it seems that there is a certain economic recovery, a certain recovery of wage conditions, they still find themselves in this situation. Therefore, Mr Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, obviously we will vote in favour of it, as it cannot be in any other way, but insist on a matter which is very important: if you today carry this decree it is thanks to the People's Party Government, which has made it possible for the workers of the Generality to charge a 1.5_per_cent more in their wages. Many thanks
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.271.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.272.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, parliamentary workers, workers... Well, it's fun – it's fun – and in fact it's not people; but it's fun to see the PP now stand as the great advocate of the workers and public workers, and to point out "so much so that is done in this Parliament and today the government carries this decree thanks to the PP. Because, in fact, thanks to the PP we're going to have to do many other things, and not just thanks to the PP. And, in fact, thanks to the PP, we have a 155 that has been inoperative for this country, and has done it a lot of harm. And, sadly – sadly – these 155 months of implementation have not been in progress and, sadly, work has been done. And for this reason I am grateful that the People's Party is now the great advocate of the workers. Look, today I got one of these comical images that come to all of us in the mobiles, where I said, "What can we think of a country where the right-wing party, the party that never defends the interests of workers and workers, this party is called the People's Party? What we want to think of a country that its party, the People's Party, is that it defends the interests of the bank, the employer and the interests of those who want people who never raise their heads and who are always in misery. Let's get to the bottom of the law. Of course we must thank this decree for reading it here. And we have to thank him. And in fact it will be truly paradoxical that it will be adopted unanimously and, in change, the debate has been used and focused on a fierce criticism; it will be paradoxical that it will be adopted unanimously and that, in change, the debate has been focused on this. But I'll focus on the decree. This decree has been very actively affirmed by different groups that it is thanks to the general assumptions of the State, this Law 6/2018, of July 3. This decree, if they read well, see how these assumptions marked that there was a maximum of '1,5_per_cent and a possibility, whenever consistently the GDP has exceeded 3.1_per_cent, to increase to 0.25_per_cent. So, a 1.75. Moreover, in this decree, the increment of 0.2_per_cent is also allowed. In fact, I agree with what the CUP's partner, Mr Vidal Aragonese, has said, it is true. Com computes from the 1st of July of 2018 the share of 0.25, it is not possible to compute for all of 2018 this increment of 1,95, but it will compute for the next years this 1,95, because this 1,95 will be linear and consolidated. Therefore, we cannot fail to avoid this reference. It's true that it's six months away from this 0.25, but it's also true that this 0.25 came to stay, and therefore 1.95 came to stay in every sense. And that's why I think we're... a good way to explain it is that this 1.95 is consolidated, and it's more linear, it's linear. Which was a union petition, and that in this case the unions did well to accept this proposal which, moreover, was theirs. But I still want to add more things. In these general assumptions of the State that were approved – and now they will tell me that this is the issue, but, yes, it is the issue – there was the rule of spending. And this rule of spending is obvious that it has to be done, because if we don't have it, we'll still have an added problem, like what we're patenting now, an added problem; that doesn't justify it either, because it's the only argument to make the workers' labor rights and public workers come back, of course it's not – of course it isn't. That is why there are negotiations at the Bureau; that is why these negotiations at the Bureau continue to be given and must be followed, because one of the determining elements that we have here today is precisely an agreement on this Bureau. And this Bureau agreement must continue to work. And we are fully aware that this agreement at the Bureau must continue to work. In the last appearance of the Director General of Public Service, in the Commission of Digital Policies and Public Administration, we have already made this reference. We must continue to strive – we must continue to strive. The 13th and 14th pay. All parliamentary groups have mentioned the 13th and 14th pay, and this must be one of our priorities. And, in effect, this must be one of our priorities for our parliamentary group. And, therefore, we will not be able to meet the objectives shared with the representatives of the workers and the public workers if we are not very clear that this is a priority for all of us. And I'm also convinced that it's for the government – I'm also convinced that it's for the government. Because, moreover, it has also been stated and affirmed correctly, that this is not a right that is intended to win, but that, sadly, it is a right that has been lost by the action of the retails, and by the retails that have been marked, in good part, by the Government of Madrid, by the change of the Constitution in one night. And now – now – everyone is throwing the stone at this government because the return of these rights has not yet taken effect. And it's true, they didn't work out. That's work. And it's a job for all of us to do it. And it's up to us to make everyone and everyone in every sense: to parliamentary groups, to this chamber, to the government and also to the union representatives of the workers and the workers. And when you go to a negotiating table, that has to be taken into account, it always has to be taken into account. The proposals must be accurate and adequate and the requests must be within the scope of the assumptions. This increase in '1,95 will mean, in detail, the following expenditure: a 1.5 of the fixed increase is EUR 175,6_million; the 0,25_per_cent that is, as the previous Aragonese Member has said, from 1 July, is EUR 14,8_million. And this 0.2_per_cent of additional funds is 23.5_million euros because this will compute with retroactivity from the 1st generation of 2018. Therefore, this total sum of millions that belong to and are legitimately of the workers and public workers we also have to put on the table. And, in effect, and here I want to answer the deputy Aragonese, the way to make republic is to prioritize these requests. Totally fine. But the way to make republic is also that in those barrels like Sant Ildefons, which you know very well, we can improve the investment in the CAP. The way to make a republic is that we go to Viladecans and we can make a school, which is a historical claim. The way to make republic is also that we improve not only the areas of sanitation and education but also that we advance in the provision of rights of our citizenry in all areas, it is also to take into account the minor unaccompanied, it is also to take into account all those people who suffer day by day and the guaranteed return of citizenship. That's all the way to make republic. This is only a small part, but it is also very important to make republic. And we share it, Aragonese company, we share it completely. But we also share it with other groups that don't want to make republic or feel like talking about it, or if they don't want to hear about making republic in our own country. But it is evidence that these groups whenever they appear in this Faristol – and they do so from the opposition – always remember those they don't have. That's right. But it's that these same groups, when they rule elsewhere, it turns out that the least they remember are those they don't have. And, therefore, we also have to put this here from the table. We have to keep in mind that when we talk about labor rights, we don't just do it from whether the grooves are..., – Dimas company, who was going for this now, wait 'tun_second, please. We don't do this from the point of view of whether there's a big gap that bothers or doesn't bother, you said: "We'll defend all the workers and all the public workers. I am convinced that it will also defend these workers and public workers who remain independent and who want a republic. And that, therefore, they say that that dark place is in their face and they're representing them too because it's a representation of the defense of civil and democratic rights. And that's very important in our country. Because I am convinced that Ciutadans, who always fills his mouth that defends everyone and wants to defend everyone, will not have any inconvenience empathizing with those people who consider that the dark place is his, as it is ours. Because this is part of our country's civil and democratic rights, because unfortunately we don't have them right now. Now they're not there and that's why you can't say democracy. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.273.0	Thank you, Mr. Albert. This is the return now on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Together for Catalonia, of Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.274.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Vice-President, Councillor, Councillor, Councillor Puignero..., I also greet the representatives of the workers who are accompanying us today. Obviously, before we begin we have to make reference, inevitably, to the current situation, which you do not want to remember. We can't make it look like we're living in a normal situation. There have been reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State claims more than two hundred years in prison. That's why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. We will never give up on this demand. But today we are also here, obviously, for the validation of the Law Decree presented to us by the Government, 5/2018, of the increase in remuneration for 2018 of the system of better, of economic benefit of temporary disability applicable to all the staff of the public sector. And obviously we must congratulate the willingness of the Councillor, the Councillor and, above all, the representatives of the workers. Because, obviously, it is the will of this Government and the will of this Parliamentary Group Together for Catalonia, which gives it support, which precisely recovers the rights of public workers, the public servers that during the time of crisis, however, more than anything else, not only derived from the crisis, but only for the objectives of deficit fixed unequally, unjustly, in a totally unbalanced way in favor of the Central State, have suffered during all these years. And obviously among these public servants we also celebrate that the decree specifically includes the workers of the Administration of Justice. The deputy Vidal Aragonese has detailed very precisely what the increment is. With regard to this, I would like to point out, in effect, that 1 and a half are increasing, starting in July by 0.25, but we also remember that the maximum effort is being made, this is a few. And the council and this government are making the most of the presuppositional effort that can bring it to those percentages. And, in addition, it adds 0.2_per_cent, as the counselor has rightly pointed out, there will be some benefits that in applying it linearly it will benefit the subs, precisely, lower. And that he has already specified that the decree certainly contemplates various possibilities of application of this 0.2_per_cent, but that it will go to a linear increment of the specific complement of dedication. Therefore, also with this 0.2_per_cent is also going beyond the forecast to the general assumptions of the State. We also note that in situations of IT, in situations of temporary disability, situations of malaise where precisely there is a situation of more weakened people, and in this case of public workers, it is a pact and it is vague that there is a hundred_per_cent of the remuneration and from the first day of the low. And we also want to point out that the decree provides that in the economic modules of staff of private, concerted educational centres, they will also enjoy these staff of these educational centres of these same increments. With which we also come to reinforce what is our educational model of what has just been talked about today. And effectively the passage of the decree is perfectly justified. It is certainly a system of adopting an extraordinary standard but it is justified, in this case, by a need for urgency. And actually the delay is derived from the application of 155 and that immediately you cannot have the law of assumptions. Therefore, it is a perfectly valid mechanism. The approval of this decree, moreover, shows that this government is willing to govern – as many times are required, but this is demonstrated in practice – for all Catalans and to worry about the real problems of citizenship; in this case, about the problems of public servants: teachers, teachers, bombers, movements, and, therefore, is dealing with the real problems of citizenship. Now, we cannot forget that this decree takes precedence over the situation of limitations that presupposes our dependence on the State. What we are recovering is the situation of 2012 prior to the Presuppositional Enabling Law, which the State has applied in a way, as I have said, unequal, unfair and irony. And, indeed, it is this government's will, and this parliamentary group is collecting it, to recover as soon as possible the better payments of 2013 and 2014, but if precisely it was not possible to address the return of the first 10_per_cent of 2013_was precisely for the state's closure of the possibility to dispose of these resources. All groups require the Government of the Generality to complete its commitments, in this case, this commitment to pay, expenses of many other types of social type, that we share and collect; but it is not possible to demand from the Government of the Generality the compliment in the matter of supposition, in the matter of financing, having what the President of the Generality, President Torra, and Vice-President Aragonès, in charge of the economic area, told us this morning that I know very well. It is not possible to dispense with and demand from the Generality the compliment in financial matter obviating, as if you do not exist, the financial mark of the structure of the State, where the possibility of resources available to the Generality precisely to give services to the citizenry is strictly marked for the State. Therefore, we cannot talk about financial issues arising from the existence of the fiscal deficit, and we will repeat it as often as necessary. And, from here on, the project begins to have a similar state, the independence project. Do you know where the independence conxorx began, the process conxorx? Do you know where he started talking about independence? To the walkers, to the train walkers waiting for the rollers, that did not arrive in front of the shortage of investments of the State. That's where he starts talking about independence. So, to all the historical, economic and democratic reasons we had for independence, we have now added to the current situation of repression. We have added the report of the prosecution, aberrant, and articulated from a supposed existence of violent behaviors, presumably from the days of September 20th and October 1st. And now I'm going to read literally a few of the prosecution's indictment script, and ask them to listen to it well, because here's where there's the key that explains what the state is doing, and that's where it really reveals how an ideology is being pursued. The prosecutor said: "The secessionist plan provided for the use of all necessary means to achieve its objective, including, given the certainty that the State would not accept this situation, the violence necessary to ensure the intended criminal outcome. Do they know, from the democratic barbarity that the prosecutor is saying, what difference do mediums of object and what qualifies as criminal is the object of independence? He doesn't qualify as a middle-class criminal. The media don't give up so much. He qualifies as a criminal the object of independence, in contravention of even declarations of the same Constitutional Court, which has clearly recognized that the object of independence is perfectly legitimate and democratic. Therefore, we must not be surprised that, in all this writing, there is rebellion without violence, sedition without lifting, and misappropriation without payment. The disbelief of Spanish injustice is at its best, having these courts without justice. And, indeed, this government and this parliamentary group is going to continue to deal with things that concern citizens, which are actually the ones that concern us all. Clearly, it is also sanitation and teaching, and security; but to a very large part of this country's citizenship it is also concerned about the possibility of associating a good state, a republic, and being able to exercise, in a free and peaceful manner and without being object of violence, the law, internationally recognized and forming part of the Spanish legal order, the right to self-determination. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.275.0	Thank you, Congressman. Once we're done with the debate, we'll pass now... [[The Digital Policy and Public Administration Advisor asks to speak.]] Yes, counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.276.0	[[The counselor begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...replica, taking over Article 85.6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.277.0	All right. In any case, I can participate in the government when I think it's appropriate. Anyway, you know what they're coming back, huh? That the groups could then intervene afterward. Anyway... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.278.0	Well, deputies, deputies, allow me a brief reply, as some have said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.279.0	One moment... one moment, counselor. Please! If there is no interest in the subject, ask them to leave the hemisphere and, if not, shut up and listen to who has the use of the word at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.280.0	Let me start with the Member of Parliament, Alicia Romero, for whom I have a personal appreciation. And, in fact, it has been hard for me to know that it was you who intervened, because what I have to say to him now, so he will not like it – he will not like it. And, in this sense, say that... well, you, the Socialist Party, can disagree with politics in the field of public administration and you can criticize the government in everything you consider – and, in fact, that's how you did it, and in a very respectful way – but what's not worthy, huh? – what is not worthy of what you have done in your intervention–, is to say that if we did not have the President of the Generality is because, say, we did not..., it was almost our fault that we could not have or choose a President of the Generality until May, practically, and be six months without the President. Listen, you guys in this sense have been a profit – a profit. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, I'm... I'm just gonna let him know. If you are able to find yourself... – if you are able to find yourself – the Socialist Party, with the situation that we have found for Catalonia as well as Esquerra trying to vote for a President of the Generality and there is a lack of Members because it is found, many of them, with the impossibility of attending this plenary, these two parties would have facilitated the Members not to alter the majority of this Parliament and be able to elect a President of the Generality. I can assure you. [[Greetings.]] This is the difference between you and us. You're a profiteer. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But on the subject of the question, look, Mrs Romero, a news is worth more than a thousand words: "Batet will not touch a comma of the Law of Presuppositional Enabling because the Government can pay the foreign payments. Home, some responsibility must hold you – some responsibility must hold you. Or don't they have any? What are you asking of us, Mrs. Romero? Are you asking us to disobey? Is that what you're asking? Ask us what we disobey? Make it clear. In any case, let me tell you that you're applying the maximum you'll get to us and then accuse us of walking a little bit. Home, a little bar, huh? A little bar – a little bar – have you. [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, why don't you doubt our commitment to paying these extra payments? [[the remorse of the voice persists]] And that you could make it easier to flexibilize the rule of spending...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.281.0	Just a moment, counselor. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.282.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.283.0	Go on, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.284.0	The announcements, therefore, that, because there is no doubt that we, and certainly fleeing from that PR that they did not vote and that you now know, say, who they were..., there was a sure guess... In any case, say that we announce that we will present a parliamentary initiative precisely to make the forty-first additional provision of the State Law of Presumables more flexible, which prevents us, at these times, from making public resources or resources available in order not to return these payments. I want to see you vote on this proposal. And I already announce that we will do this in the House of this Parliament. Gentlemen of the commons, we were very much in agreement with some of the questions that have been raised. Home, tell them that you are parents or mothers, I don't know – that's what you will already make clear to me – from the creature of the Spanish presupposition, and in this presupposition – in this presupposition – that you could... – and have a hand, huh? to negotiate, through your group in Madrid – man, therefore, there should already have been, in this case, this exception in the Law of State Presuppositions, and that, therefore, in the event that this presupposition was approved, therefore, automatically can already make this payment. You haven't done this, and so, less strawberry and more straight. In any case, they ask you to help us. That they help us convince their Madrid partners, that they help us convince the Socialist Party, so that this is possible. From the rest of the groups, I will only highlight or highlight in this case the intervention made by the Lord of Ciutadans, in the line that has spoken a lot of public administration, demonstrating his interest, precisely, for the claims, in this case, that they have the unions and, as always, he has intended his debate on more relative questions... First of all, I was surprised by his vision on one of the most important processes that the 20th century is experiencing, such as digitization. You've named her a batroca- batroca. Home, if this is the concept that you have about one of the main transformations that we are experiencing, God forbid that you ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, But, in any case, as always, in the end, their intervention to the space has resulted, say, in relation to the deep links that exist in some of the councils or in other public places. Listen, 40 years, huh? Forty years of Franco symbols on the street and they haven't said anything. Now they see deep loops and they're still trouble. [[Greetings.]] Really, really, they don't have shame. And finally, Mr. Albiol, listen, you're talking about social rights, return of payments... you're right to do it, but the truth is you have very little credibility. His interest in labor rights is inversely proportional to the number of times he came to the Public Administration Commission, or so on, zero – zero – huh? Therefore, if you are so interested, please come to the committee sometime. Listen, it's very legitimate for you to want us, as the president sometimes says, to press us. Listen, "open us up. We, with this negotiation we've made with the unions, are trying to get to the maximum return of the labor rights that, many of them, have been lost long ago. And we still haven't been able to recover, we're working to recover them. And here's the return of payments from the 13th and the 14th. Our will, the will of this government, is to be able to do so. And in order to be able to do so, we also need support from some groups in this case, so that this is possible, in order to unlock the State Government's Presuppositional Stability Law, because, if not, for as much as we agree with the unions, it will be very difficult for us to make the return of these payments as we would like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.285.0	Thank you, Counselor. As long as their intervention opens one turn, now the groups will be able to intervene for two minutes each parliamentary group. In the first place, the word has the lord... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The government's time is distributed proportionally. Two minutes. The word has Mr. Gragera, deputy on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.286.0	Thank you, President. First of all, Mr Puigneró, congratulate you, who has been able to speak ten_minutes of public service and with reply. We must congratulate you when you give us the reply, because when we asked you, our spokesman, Mr Carrizosa, here, has asked you about public service, you have quieted down, as you did when we tell you what you have done with our data or what you do with the Cesicat. And you haven't answered many things we've asked you. For example, so much so that you say that I do not care about the public service, for that 30_per_cent of interim, you have not presented us with any kind of proposal or solution. And I also want to say..., congratulate you again, because with the disastrous management that you have made of the issue of pay, you have managed to get all the groups, even groups that support the government, to agree that it is a matter that needs to be fixed and that has been, above all, an insult to the workers. And, look, when I've referred to the digital baton, I don't talk about the digital revolution, I don't talk about a digital administration being a baton. What I'm talking about is that the process thug is going to become a digital thug now sponsored by you. And one last observation. I was surprised that you compared your ties to Francoist symbols, that you put them at the same height. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing: I was born in 84 and my party was born in 2006. [[Greetings.]] That is to say, if you want to give lessons in democracy, in anti-Franchist struggle, tell the members of your party, of your government, who had Francoist grandparents, not us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.287.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return of Congresswoman Alicia Romero, on behalf of the Socialists and Units Group to advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.288.0	Thank you, President. Look, it's not there now, Mr. Pujol, because I wanted to tell you that if you respect it, you tell me you're taking advantage of it and you're not worthy, man, I also appreciate it and know it many years ago, huh? But I believe that they are being taken advantage of and that they are not serious about disrespect. [[Greetings.]] Two. You say that not all Members vote here. Miri, the PSC facilitated a resolution to the Bureau in July jointly with Esquerra Republicana, and Junts per Catalunya avoided it. And I would ask you the question: why do all the deputies of the Republican Left vote and not others vote? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, answer 'yourself, because the deputies of the Republican Left vote all. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Three. Presuppositional Enabling Laws– Presuppositional Enabling Laws. [[Widow's remorse.]] I remember you voting for her...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.289.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.290.0	...This, giving support to the Popular Party, a law of stabilising durum supposition. And you say: « rule of expenditure, which now seems to worry them so much..., it doesn't matter that we come here to bring proposals for resolution cheating. I vote on Madrid's assumptions and they'll change the spending rule, it's as easy as that. Yes, because here, with a motion for a resolution that goes to us... well, or the proposal that goes to Congress, that, among other things, PP and Ciutadans are going to prevent approval. I hope that you will vote in favour, if you are so outraged, because, if not, in the end, things will work out here. No, the expense rule won't solve it here, it'll solve it there. I'm two. What have all the autonomous communities done? What have the State and the congregations done? All of it. Miri, this is Mr. Terrades, who is the director of the Archdiocese of Granollers Assembly. What did he do? So, prioritizing in his premise and paying the replaced pay to his workers, that's what Mr. Terrades has done, like so many gatherings, all the autonomous communities and the State, except Catalonia. It is said to prioritise expenditure, and not put arguments of bad payer. That's what Mr. Jordi Albert said, very well said, that's what the Lord said... yes, I know, it's a little bit flattering. But you have already said it: "It may be an argument, but not the argument to say that they will not pay double payments because there are no resources. And I agree with him: I prioritize spending when I design and define his assumptions, and they don't hide under bad-paying excuses, I repeat it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.291.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, in the name of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr. David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.292.0	I don't know where to start. It's that a person who's brought 20 years of militant activity to Convergence, who started at the JNC, who..., or so on, if the Presuppositional Enabling Law was invented by you [[I'll give you the applause.]] But when I say, "Well, don't say it, don't do it: you black-legged advisors from Convergence, you; you, the law of presupposition, you; then... If we have broken our faces against austerity policies. Austerity policies..., we're eight years old trying to change the Presuppositional Stability Law, and now in Congress we can change it, if they stop blocking the table and we can discuss it in Congress. I agree that they will vote for it. Well, rectify it's savis – what my avia says –, eight years later. So much good has done something different than what they did when they played. Let's help them. But if we try to help them already; if Mr. Pere Aragonès, negotiating, I would say that very well, he has managed that 350_million euros more for the assumption of the Generality is not under the rule of expense. We're voting for the state's general assumptions and we'll have more resources for Catalonia. More resources for the Generality. You have regulatory capacity in tax policy. We are talking about estates; in this case too, we are talking about the tax on polluting cars; we are talking about environmental taxation with the Public Transport Finance Act. We'll make the Generalita's box bigger and we can talk about getting the extra pay back from the working people. This is our proposal. And I'm telling you, you were talking... Miri, I'm telling you honestly: we'll see if you're able to make a few assumptions as to how you get to the height of the deal we've reached with the government of Sanchez. I'm telling you, we're not voting for anything that's under this level we've set. That you reversed the details and changed the tendencies of austerity policies, which you with the People's Party put on the march, in Catalonia and in the Government of the State. And I say to them, definitely, dialogue with you, not insult you. The proposal you made is an insult, and that's what they said. If you want to get references to what we're doing with you, look, we're talking about the Barcelona Assembly agreement with the public workers, who have defined it as the best agreement of work agreement that has been closed in forty years of democracy. This is what we do when we govern, for example, at the Barcelona Assembly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.293.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.294.0	I already know that you like to talk about the digital republic, but you pay them are earthly. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.295.0	The rest of the groups want to intervene? [[Vidal Aragonese Chicharro asks to speak.]] One minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.296.0	Mr. President, very quickly. First, because he hasn't given us an answer, Mr. Counselor. I think maybe the only group we're not from government that hasn't given us an answer. Yes, we would take advantage of the fact that there was a representative of a government group, Mr Albert, Member, who referred to the intervention of this group – and certainly did so with all good intent – and he referred to the barri de Sant Ildefons, and put us in contrast to what is not dedicated to public workers, and it would seem that he was dedicated or wanted to dedicate to certain barrels. So, look, the bar to which you refer: emergency pediatrics missing with the flaps; the CAP and the CUPs, partially closed. The only one... no, one of the two high school centers doesn't have a peep, doesn't have a person who opens and closes the center. And then, if you asked the workers and the public workers, their representatives, if they would dedicate their ranks to the public sector, to what it was stolen – and we said so, "if it was stolen," they would be the first to say yes, for the growth of the public sector. But he has not devoted himself to this; he has devoted himself, as we have seen, to feeding the bank, saving the bank and certain activities that obviously are not part of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.297.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.298.0	...of social justice. Not the Grup d'Esquerra Republicana, but a certain action.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.299.0	Time's up, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.300.0	He didn't make a reference – I'm finished, Mr. President – the counselor... But we do want to say one thing: Presuppositionary Readi d'estabilité presuppositionaria: qui aprova? , for one band; i 135, who does not vote against, for another band. That's what we have. Which you, or do not vote against or approve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.301.0	Thank you, Congressman. The rest of the groups that have intervened, if they want to... [[Several Members are asking to speak.]] Yeah? Mr. Albert... if you want to intervene...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.302.0	Yeah. Yes, thank you. One minute, I'll talk to you from here. Assign that, counselor, you will be a phenomenon organizing the process in the information field, and it will be a crack, but I can assure you that in time to negotiate and try to defend the interests of the workers of the Generality does not get too well. Look, there's a reality here, and I know they don't like it at school, but if the public workers of the Catalonian Government have been able to finish paying for the year 2012_has not been thanks to you but thanks precisely to the application of 155, which guaranteed them the payment of the last part that the remaining years of 2012. I already know that you don't like this, but it's an objective reality. I can't argue about objective realities. Since it is not possible to argue that they do not have the pay of the year 2013 and 2014 for an agreement, or not by decision of the People's Party, but for an agreement between the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and the Republican Left of Catalonia. So let's say things as they are. And I'd appreciate it, Mr. Counselor, that the next few times I'm going to intervene to try to explain a project, a decree, like today's,...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.303.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.304.0	...instead of dedicating himself to attacking the opposition, he is dedicated to defending the interests of his council.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.305.0	Mr. Albert, yes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.306.0	Yes, president; from the escho, president. Well, the last two interventions seem to me to be very good for me because later you thanked me very much, Mr Albiol. It's already the top. Come on, you know he likes to wear a lot of medals, don't you? In fact, it looks like Magic Andreu. But I'll give you another reference: maybe you should check out a little bit of the paper and find out that it was now the same person who was vice president of this government in that period, before 155, and that right now, if you always want him to go to Lledoners, because he's there locked up, who signed the payment to which you referred. It was Oriol Junqueras and Lives as vice president of this government. And he did it before the application of 155, because he left it signed. Just as he signed other payments so that he would arrive in time because he knew that 155 would apply, we would have a problem, and very difficult, in our country. Company Vidal Aragonés, I just want to point out a couple of things. With regard to the CAP of Sant Ildefons, the Councillor Comín, who at the moment is ill-advised in exile, was very clear, had very clear what his plan of government was. His plan of government was to use income and income data to influence, to invest in those spaces, in those health centres where you invest. And one of them was the Sant Ildefons CAP. And so, here we have work to do, and I'm convinced that we're going to keep doing it, because we're going to come from word to word here, huh? We came from a long way here, and you know it perfectly. And, therefore, we must continue to move forward. And, just a few minutes later, the uixers don't pay them the Generality pays them together. He puts them together, from the institutes and from the schools, he puts them together. Home, I have a few of my gatherings of Sant Andreu de la Barca. So, this point seems to me to be important. And by the end, because I'm a long time away, listen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.307.0	In fact, he's exhausted, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.308.0	Oh, okay. [[Rialles.]] So much so; as soon as he touches me, maybe I'll take advantage of it. Come, thank you – I don't need you to listen anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.309.0	Thank you, Congressman. Forward, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.310.0	Thank you, President. First – and very important – this government and this parliamentary group, Together for Catalonia, has as its first objective the recovery of the payments from these will work but obviously this, not to repeat, cannot be done with the exception of the general financing situation of the State and specifically of the Government of Catalonia. Therefore, it will continue to work in the negotiation tirelessly to get this return. And I actually give the reason to Mrs Romero that she is right, it is a question of priorities, but also to the place where they govern – in fact, together with Ciutadans – that she is also in Andalusia must have had other priorities, because they have not yet returned the 2013 and 2014 pay. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, they didn't. So, don't say, and don't repeat, that Catalonia is the only place he hasn't returned, because that's not true. And I can't even answer the fact that I said that 155 was extended so as not to invest. Miri, President Puigdemont was by interference of the Constitutional Court, with direct tricks from the government, which in addition made interferences directly here in Parliament with notifications very kindly for the Civil Guard. You have sometimes denounced, and you recognize, that pre-trial detention is excessive or unwarranted. I'm worth it. It's not enough, but I value it. But it is precisely this preventive detention that prevented Jordi Sànchez from investing, despite having some precautionary measures approved by the United Nations. And that's what stopped Jordi Turull's investiture. Therefore, do not say that 155 is precisely enlarged so as not to make an investiture, precisely so as not to give in to repression. We will fight and continue to resist repression, as we continue to fight for the rights of the servers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.311.0	Congressman, you're done with the congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.312.0	...publics and all the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.313.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. In accordance with Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, it is understood that the affirmative votes, in this case, are in favour of the validation of the decree and the negative votes are in favour of the derogation. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. This Decree Law 5/2018_has been validated by 122 votes in favour of validation, against and abstentions. According to Article 158.4, the law has once been validated, I ask the chamber if any parliamentarians want this law decree to be passed as the law bill. Is there a group? [[Pause.]] No, no, So since there is no petition in this sense, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. [[Draft law on service contracts for persons (debate of totality)]] [[200-00003/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the totality debate on the Bill of Contracts for Service to People. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.314.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, Councillor, Members, Members, I appear to present the draft law on contracts of service to persons, a draft law which I present today on behalf of the Government but which is a draft law which was approved by the Government of the Government of Catalonia more than a year ago, under the leadership of Councillor Raül Romeva, responsible for the area of public contract in the past Government, a councillor unlawfully ceased in application of Article 155 and who is today engaged at the Lledoners Prison Centre. And, therefore, he is responsible for the fact that today we can complete this bill, which has not received any attention in totality; therefore, it is a bill that its content is widely accepted by this chamber. As I said, this initiative has already entered the parliamentary level, but the dissolution of the chamber by the President of the Government of the State, suspending the autonomy of Catalonia, the closure of the chamber and the application of Article 155, obstructed the normal processing of the draft law of contracts of service to persons and prevented the administration of the Generality and the local administration, which is one of the areas most benefited by this draft law, counting on a tool that allows you to offer better services to the citizens of Catalonia. Even though it seemed like an obvious fact, it should be made clear that this is a law, as its name says, of contracts, not a law that you serve. Public procurement is now one of the major economic impact activities of administrations. The European Union estimates that 14 % of the gross domestic product of the Member States is spent on the purchase of public goods and services, many of which, moreover, have a direct relationship with the welfare of the citizenry; in the case of the Generalitat de Catalunya, 4,000 million euros per year of public contracts. By means of public contracts, we acquire medicines, build hospitals, equipment and educational centres, or provide numerous services, such as public transport. In the last few days you have been serving us, above all as a social character, linked to the state of welfare that is characteristic of the fact that they are lending from person to person, that is to say that there is a very direct relationship between the person who lends them and the person who asks them. In the European sphere, by combining the different community directives, these services are called "services for people". In general, it is about services linked to the field of social services, in the broad sense of the term: spy monitors, couples or centres of infants, open centres, young people, large people, specific services for certain collections, such as mediation services, home care for large people or others, some services that, as you all know, are not only provided to the Government of Catalonia, but are often services of local competence. For some time now, both the Government of the Generality and the local governments of Catalonia have been able to prove the difficulties of contracting these services with the general contracting system, especially because it is a model where the price is what determines the selection of the contractor and in which it is very difficult to value aspects linked to the quality of the service and which can have a direct impact on the users of the services. Says in other words: we have contract procedures that ensure that the selection of suppliers is also made under expert criteria, specialization and experience, and not just price. Certainly, the Basic State Law on Public Sector Contracts, which developed the 2014 European Public Contract Directives, introduces changes and improvements to the general public contract model, but, in change, it has not regulated a special rule for the contracting of services to persons, a possibility that does reverse Community law. In effect, Directive 2014/24 provides that the services to persons, for their own natural purpose, require a treatment which is more appropriate and linked to quality, proximity, user needs and continuity in the provision of the service. For this reason, it allows for a system of selection of the contractor that is more qualified than in the price and in which, in addition to the general principles of transparency, advertising, equality and non-discrimination as to general principles of public contract, it is also possible to take into account a combination of specific principles linked to quality, such as continuity, accessibility, completeness, care and adaptation to vulnerable collections, etc. Therefore, given the need and the fact that the Government of Catalonia has competence in all the services subject to this law, such as social services, of reading, greeting, mediating, and with the aim of improving the quality in its contract, the Government has decided to push forward the bill that I present today in this chamber. A draft law that is structured into an exhibition of motius, six chapters, three additional dispositions, a transitory disposition, a derogation, five final dispositions and four attachments. In relation to the content, it should be noted that the draft law affects the two phases of the contracting procedures: firstly, in the selection phase of the suppliers and secondly, in the execution phase of the contract, all regulating specific control and supervision mechanisms that do not exist in the general public procurement regime and that are pioneers. Before I enter the subject matter, I would like to clarify which services you can contract with this law or the owner of this bill. Services such as assistance to disadvantaged groups, follow-up and follow-up activities for children and young people or large people, complementary health care services, management of equipment such as couples, civic, community or sports centres, or catering services to hospitals, schools and residents of large people, among others, may be contracted. The complete list of services is found in the annexes to the law and has been drawn from the community reference legislation. In the first place, it regulates the selection phase of the providers. The draft law establishes, from a band, that the required solvency requirements are provided to the object of the contract. In this way, giving a compliment to the objective of community law and state basic legislation, to promote the contracting of the small and medium-sized enterprise and the third social sector, establishes that it will not be possible to demand an economic solvency higher than twice the estimated value of the contact. This, therefore, could be a petition for a disproportionate economic solvency in relation to the estimated value of the contract, which could be converted into an entry barrier for certain types of suppliers as entities, as cooperatives, as in the third sector, as small and medium-sized enterprises, so this, which could be an entry barrier, is overcome with the application of this law. For what it does to the selection procedures, the draft law regulates two: an open procedure and a restricted procedure; both with short terms and with preferably electronic processing. The bill of law, as it said before, limits the price weight in the award of contracts, putting in place the prohibition that the selection of the company is possible at the end of time by subtly or award to the lowest price, and establishes that the price will be able to get as much as a 40_per_cent pes in the total score. In the case of health services, this percentage is reduced to 30_per_cent. For certain services, and whenever justified in the contract submission, a restricted procedure is regulated in which it is possible to specifically assess the social responsibility of enterprises in aspects such as measures of gender equality, environmental responsibility, job placement of persons with disabilities, innovation or the fact of having signed pacts or adhere to pacts driven by United Nations, especially in the field of corruption, among others. As a result, public contracting also as an economic policy tool, as well as a social policy tool, as well as a labour policy tool. It also provides for the incorporation of special conditions of performance – for a band, selection criteria; special conditions of performance – in contracts linked to the completion of the wage and labour conditions of the agreed collections that remain of reference and to the effective equality between women and men. On the other hand, and for what it does to the characteristics to be completed by potential contractors of these services, it must be borne in mind that at present the regulated services for the law are brought to an end for a variety of entities and enterprises, with the predominance of small and medium-sized enterprises and entities belonging to the third social sector, but also for other types of suppliers. The law, therefore, seeks the balance between the interests of all of them, but as a matter of fact it takes public interest into account. In this sense, the law makes it possible to require companies and entities wishing to opt for a public contract to comply with certain objective requirements linked to the quality of the service and to the commitment to the public service, independently of its legal nature. And, for subcontracting, it is expected that certain services may not be subcontracted. Finally, the bill regulates a reserve regime for certain contracts to entities that meet requirements such as reinvesting their benefits into the same entity or community, or that workers participate in the ownership of production media. This reservation is provided for in Article 77 of Directive 2014/24 and has a maximum duration of three years per contract. The law establishes that either by agreeing with the Government, in the case of the Generality, or by agreeing in full, in the case of local authorities, it is decided which of you serve, or a percentage of these, is reserved for this type of entity and for which duration. I am now entering into the regulation of the execution phase of the contract. In this, the bill regulates a strict system of control and follow-up on the part of the Administration that may involve sanctions and suspensions of contract to those companies and entities that do not meet the quality requirements established. In the control and follow-up mechanisms it is provided for the appointment of an official, who must hold the condition of authority, the realization of periodic reports, audits and inquiries to the user. In the event that severe incompliments are detected, the possibility of settling the contract before its expiry and assuming it directly for the Administration or by means of a third party shall be established. In short, as I have said, it is a pioneering standard, which seeks more quality in the service setting selection criteria that favor the contracting of specialized enterprises than appose for innovation and, at the same time, allows for accurate follow-up of the execution, to ensure that the service is ready with the required quality standards, with the aim of improving the service to people. Finally, with the approval of this law, the contracting agencies of the various Catalan administrations will have a new tool that will make it easier for them to select suppliers that guarantee the quality of services, make it easier for them to resolve the contract if the supplier does not complete the terms of its execution. Therefore, we incorporate public contract as a tool for social policy, economic policy, policy for equal opportunities, added to the same condition as public contract for providing services in the field of administration. Many thanks, councillor, councillor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.315.0	Thank you, Vice President. We are now starting a round of group interventions to set its position, for a maximum of two minutes per group and five minutes per parliamentary subgroup, starting with the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. In this case, the word "Ms. Marina Bravo".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.316.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, well, unfortunately, we have all read news like this once: "Families report lack of food in the residence of elderly Bon Pastor, or like this one: "Two workers to take care of thirty opinions; only two workers to take care of thirty opinions. This news shows that when we talk about people, about their well-being, about their quality of life, about their care, any offer is not worth us. Those who need certain care, care and support services are often fragile or vulnerable people, who in no case can become unattended. We can't afford news like this that we have here. And this, then, how is it achieved? Well, well, this law deals with this a little bit; the counselor has advanced it to us. It is achieved by ensuring that whoever provides the service offers sufficient guarantees that he is able to do so, that he can do what is right and that under no circumstances will he leave the users lying down. When an administration decides how or who will provide these services to people, whatever the choice, it has to have as its ultimate goal the quality and ensure that no one will be thrown away. The first thing has to always be people. And although Mr. Torra sometimes..., or, rather, do not tire of repeating to us that the first thing is the process, for the truth is that no: the first thing is and must remain the people. And when we see sad news like these that we saw – lack of food, lack of caretakers – then we quickly come to all phrases that I'm sure none of you are strangers; either you have heard them or even mentioned them more than once: for, that can't be, that it's that prices are piled up in auctions and then it's impossible for companies to comply with their commitments; that auctions are still being made, at the cheapest; that neither the capacity nor the quality nor even the working conditions of their workers are taken into account... And in this, then, I stop for a moment, because at this point, when the working conditions of workers are not taken into account, another feature of this type of services is highlighted: if the first feature was that they were services provided to people, in many vulnerable cases, another characteristic is that they are services provided directly by people. Users are a key piece in this puzzle and workers are another of the key pieces, workers who have to have fair conditions, would miss more, but workers also for whom in many cases such employment and occupation are key and critical elements for their integration into society. Special employment centres or work integration centres play a very important role in this respect, but not only them: other entities or enterprises that promote in their daily work the stability in the occupation and social integration of certain disadvantaged groups. It is easy to understand, when we think of these companies, that when they face normal conditions of open competition and free competition, they often have difficulty getting contracts, but their social function cannot be overlooked and needs to be valued, and that is why we need to establish the necessary mechanisms for them. The European directives, which normally tell us about competition and competition, do not ignore this need at all. And we are told, for example, of the figure of the contract reserve mentioned by the adviser. This figure allows for a certain amount or percentage of government contracts to be reserved for centres, entities or companies that promote stability in the occupation and social integration of certain groups for a long time. In addition, for social services, for services to the people concerned here, Directives 23, 24 and 25 of 2014 opened up new scenarios, not only as regards the reservation of contracts, but also to many other options that must, of course, be taken advantage of. That is why we have not tabled an amendment to this bill in its entirety – we have not tabled it in the last legislature either – and that is why we agree to put the debate on the table as soon as possible. But we hope that it will end with a somewhat improved text. And we say 'improved' because we really believe that there are issues in this bill that need to be clarified. And I am not going to go in and list all the details, because they would be bored and because we will already have the presentation for it, but I would like to introduce at least the aspect that we consider most significant. It is a very clear and very specific aspect referred to in the second additional provision; it is the definition of what a social enterprise is. The second additional provision states: "As soon as the Catalan regulations governing social enterprises are adopted – " as soon as it is adopted, which is not now – "the description of this type of entity which may benefit from the reservation referred to in this law will refer to the definition it establishes. Well, I'll translate this for you. This means that, if we pass this law, we will be passing a law that says that a certain percentage of the contracts of the Administration will be reserved for certain companies that what characteristics will they have? We don't know that. Not only do we not know, but it does not even enter into the debate of this law. And, well, if it were only for reserved contracts, still, because they are a small part, but it is that the second additional provision continues: "It can also be established as a criterion of specific solvency of Article 5– and this one speaks of all contracts of services to people –" that qualification or seal of social enterprise, which curiously does not enter into debate in this law. I mean, they're asking us to pass this law a little blind. A law that says that not being a social enterprise can lead you to exclude people from all the hiring of services, but that does not tell us what requirements are going to be asked of such enterprises: if they are going to ask a particular legal entity, if they are going to ask for a certain size... We don't know. And we believe that this definition of social enterprise is a very important part, if not the most important, and that it must be linked to the law itself and that it must certainly enter into the debate. Well, last but not least, and since we're talking about hiring, I wanted to give you a little reminder as well. I started by showing a couple of news that either of us could recognize and that talked about the failures that sometimes occurred in this provision of services. And now I was going to show you some other news that unfortunately they're also sure to feel..., come on, you can recognize them. I had many of these; and I will not give concrete data or names, so that no one feels identified or takes it personally, but I read them more or less... "Condemned by an irregular award a former high office of the Generalitat – we will not tell who. « Share the director – let's call him equis, also from the Generalitat – « on charges of awarding contracts to his companies. Another very recent one, just a few days ago: "The statements begin by investigating the award of the cleaning service in a given municipality. Corruption, amigoism, takes advantage of any loophole in the legislation to introduce its arbitrariness and its toes. And it often does so with great dissimulation, by means of reports which justify in a perfectly correct way in the form of these invitations to tender, but which have no technical rigour in the substance. Let us all bear in mind, please, in the debate on this law, and let us not fall into the mistake of facilitating that friendliness or clientism, because, only if we really think of the users who have to end up receiving that benefit or of those workers who are engaged in such a delicate task as it is to provide these services to people, can we make this law truly a tool of progress that serves to ensure that companies and entities have incentives for improvement and that the good doing of companies that strive and achieve good results is truly recognized. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.317.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.318.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, also, Vice President and Counselor, for the presentation you made us of this bill. I also wanted to thank the Director General, Merce Corretja, for the attention he gave to the deputies, with a technical session in which he went into detail in the explanation of this law – this law is an important law, but very technical – and therefore, despite the fact that we have not yet done so, because we have changed the times and it is perfectly clear that you would like to pass on to her and her team the effort that she has made, which I think is an example, eh? , that, if every time you came up with a draft of the complex law became unexplained, the deputies would have more information than I thought I'd be doing well to make our pocket. In any case, our position with regard to this law is also positive, we have not presented any questions to the totality. We believe, therefore, that there will be things that will certainly improve on the question, but from the outset it seems to us that it was a necessary law, a transposition of the directive that was to be done, and, therefore, working is what we want to do to improve it. Basically, what this law is about is what quality we give to the provision of people's services, isn't it? , to improve their quality of life, because in the end what they seek is to improve the quality of life above all the most disadvantaged; you said it: the most fragile. And many times, so, these are the great people, the infants, the young, the women... And, therefore, I would like to pay a more delicate attention, no? , if a wish that the performance of these services is as suitable as possible and we give it to the highest quality. In fact, the directive that I am asking for is this: that these services are given with the highest quality, and therefore this must be and is the principle that guides, that they intend to guide this bill. We believe that the most important thing is how, from this service, and not who. And at some point in the law it seems that this could be confused, and we would like that in ponència, in ponència, in ponència's work, this can be clarified. And let me explain it to them, huh? In Catalonia, our system of protection and social services would not be possible without the historical complicity of the third sector, a third sector that has helped to build in part, therefore, the society that we currently have. And they're splats, work centers, young couples, social health services, child care centers, foster care centers... in all of them we find the third sector working and managing these services, right? It is a sector of up to 1.5 million people, with 87,000 workers and representing 1.7 of the Catalan GDP. Therefore, this bill must preserve this work that they have done and must allow the continuity of these projects, which have often emerged from the very social initiative of the families, of those people who are more close to these vulnerable collectivities. And, therefore, we believe that we need to preserve this somehow, because our model is very close to Catalonia, and that which is good, therefore, is intended to preserve. Now, in Catalonia we also have a very important economic fabric, an economic fabric of micro-enterprises. 99,8_percent of Catalan businesses are micropimes; of these, 95_per_percent have fewer than two workers. Therefore, we are talking about very small businesses, some of them also coming out of social initiatives, associations that have then ended, therefore, becoming businesses. And that's a lot going on with associations that have then managed youth-related activities, for example, and that's what we've been running in the municipalities that we know very well. I, therefore, have decided the legal form, so, in this case, the most commercial. But we believe that the legal form does not determine the quality of the service, and this is important for us to take into account. And, therefore, we do not want to demonize either one or the other. We believe that the important thing is to establish very clear transparency criteria that allow the best person to provide that service to do so. It's true that this law establishes three lawsuits, isn't it? , said the vice president: a general, a restriction and a reserve. We, in the restriction, want to make some notes, don't we? It is not that we have anything against it, but we do have some doubts that we believe that probably the question should be considered, above all because the directive establishes very clear principles. As I said, the one of transparency; also the one of equality, and the one of non-discrimination. And that's three very practical principles at the time of setting up how we lend these services. For example, Article 7 sets out the criteria for choosing bidders to go to the restricted competition; that is, we restrict the competition to certain bidders according to certain conditions. In general, the conditions seem good to us, it is good to give priority to the better of the related working conditions or to be established through the agreements of reference; that there are measures of equality of kind; that there are measures linked to environmental responsibility, to persons with disabilities, with risk of exclusion... That is, there are a sequence of requests with which we would agree. But we think it would be useful to reflect on some requirements that speak clearly of the legal form: that is, the reversal of benefits in the same company, the activity or participation of workers in the governing bodies... We think that this is a legal form and, therefore, we should review it, because if what we really want is this transparency, equality and non-discrimination, then we should try to do that. Sounds like the idea of restraint to us. That is to say, we restrict ourselves to marking that these bidders complete a series of conditions that we take as the administration; it seems good. But we should be aware that these requirements do not fit into a specific legal form, because I think that we would not be doing well, so in this sense, not only in the economic fabric, but also in the third social sector, that I believe that it itself has enough value, so much so that companies like the third sector have enough value as to win a contest for their expertise, specialization and knowledge. And, therefore, I don't think we have to do each other – and I say that with many comets, don't I? – Lonely traps to achieve a certain result. So, in this sense, I do believe that in pursuit of quality we should review and go with this. Then there are some things that are fine, in relation to the price. It is said that it must be the 40_percent of the total. We would agree that it is less than 50, because, obviously, it cannot always be conditioned, because this is the problem that has occurred with many contracts, that ultimately lowers them against labor costs, against the quality of the service, and, therefore, that it is values more as the service will be realized than the price, seems reasonable to us. Then there is an element that I think would also be worth thinking about, which speaks to the same article of the price, which is where the co-payment is. Don't say it like that, but it gives the feeling that in a general way we accept co-payment in all the services. And it's true that there's a lot of people serving together and Generality where there's a co-op, but it might be worth it if we gave a down, because it looks like we're, somehow, generalizing this, and I don't think it would be good for you to do this reading, because you might... extend it out of this text. There are some very positive aspects, when we talk about subcontracting, which must be very limited and very high, because we have seen in many cases what has happened to this, and therefore there must be a lot of transparency with subcontractors, and I think the law specifies it very well. And then we have some kind of doubt, for example, about desert bids, right? The law says that if there's a bid that's left behind because those bidders haven't made it to the minimum shields, so, you can take it... so say if, to give an example, you've given it to them, you can take the first one and the second one and those two give it to them. Home, if we're saying we need quality, we've established quality here and no one's going anywhere... home, then we're going to look for the underside? Even though they're up and down... they don't seem reasonable to us. So, we're gonna have to go over some things in this sense, huh? And, therefore, the law, of entry, seems good to us, is correct. We need to improve on quality. We believe that there are things that are much better than there were; some that continue, say, a little in line that was also worked on in the Law of Administrative Contraction of the State, but we believe that some things could also be better. And what we're asking the government is that when we go into labor... or we're asking the groups that support the government is that when we go into labor, we can bring in people; that they can come one, another, those who see it better, those who see it worse, and among all we can improve the law. Because in the end, the job of a poser is this. A lot of good work has been done from the government, a lot of good work has been done from the general direction, but it's also true that they can always get better. And, therefore, we believe that in this sense, entities, business associations, the third sector, experts, is to say, professors, can help us to improve something that will certainly do much better and will enable us to achieve that objective that we pursue, that is the better quality of service to the most disadvantaged, that they are unfortunately the ones that often end up paying that there is no such quality. Therefore, Mr. Aragones, good work. I hope we can keep her on the job and finally get a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.319.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs. Elisenda Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.320.0	Good afternoon, good night, yes, deputies, deputies. Well, the purpose of the Law Project we're bringing to debate today is to establish a specific public contract regime for people's care services, which aim at the welfare and improvement of the quality of life of the citizenry, with special attention to the most fragile and vulnerable collectivities, as it has already been. Its scope is not only the application of the contracts made by the Government of the Generality, but also for the local world. It is, in fact, a very important and necessary law also for the local world. They include it – and I won't be entertained, because my predecessors have already told me – a set of services linked to education, social and health services, or the names ‘community or social cohesion services'. In the management of these services, I mean that, for many years, the logic of the market has prevailed in our home; the one that says that money is everything, marks everything. And, therefore, it is that logic that says that money is the essential pillar that marks the functioning of today's life. A logic that has been transferred to the company's joint venture, but also to public institutions. It has been a long time since the institutions of everyone and everyone accepted that the market determines the future of the public. Even so, it has been accepted that all political and social criteria have been subordinated to the dictates of the markets; a dictate that public administrations must refrain from spending on protecting people's lives and well-being; a dictate that at home has involved a decade of crisis, retailing and austerity, from the hands of governments, from governments that many times have believed to be the gods of finance, when they were simply titillates of banks. Some governments that for years have abused their citizenship through the retailing of public workers, through the degradation of public services and the opening of battles against the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises in a whole country. While the multinationals were battling, they regattached the working conditions. Insulting examples of this is not a good mountain, but I will want to focus on one: the Florentino Pérez empire, the head of the macro-enterprise Construction and Services Activities, and, as you know, the President of Real Madrid, who controls every time more areas of business in Catalonia, related to social services. It is a growing business phenomenon that threatens to turn the social policy of the institutions into a large controlled negotiation of Madrid. It is this logic that we have branches of builders providing home care services – branches of builders providing home care services –, or clean businesses running primary care centres, as is the case with Empordà. Manufacturers' branches providing home care services; clean services managing CAPs. God-in-law! This kind of management is what you see witnesses who leave ice cream on anyone. These testimonies that I will read are from 2011, and refer to workers of the company Clece, Florentino Pérez. Mary: "At the reception the night shift was eliminated, so the residents can no longer communicate with their relatives from eleven. The receptionist of the night shift went to work during the day. The person in charge of the day shift was fired. The one who worked on the weekends, too. A cleaning employee was discharged. The gardener was assigned cleaning functions, and during the weekends, dishwashers in the kitchen. The cafeteria? Closed. Instead, vending machines for meals and refreshments. The waitresses, converted into kitchen pinches, must now also take care of the cleaning, and have seen their salary reduced by half, to three hundred euros per month. In maintenance only one person has been left, who must now be available 24 hours a day, every day of the year. The sociocultural animator has now been converted to auxiliary, so all activities have been eliminated. If we want to build a new country, if we really talk about sovereignty, sovereignty is this: that the public services of our country are not allowed to manage companies in the Florentino Pérez claus. We're on, more witnesses. Carmen: "Before, if the bed was very low, the social services adapted it to your situation. Now I have to put all the chairs in the dining room as a railing, because the lady has Alzheimer's and gets up in the middle of the night. Instead of a wheelchair, I find houses where the husband has had to put wheels in the dining room chair. How do you get them, the caregiver, to change a lady's diaper, at least four times a day, if she's in a wheelchair that doesn't have brakes? Two examples of how money is needed on social criteria. Two examples of how there are unscrupulous enterprises that only seek the maximum private benefit and possess it before the welfare of people. Clece, 2011, at that time charged 1,000_million euros. The country we want protects people. The country we want doesn't make people more vulnerable. The country we want leaves no one behind. Therefore, this bill presented to us by the Government, effectively, is a step forward, a small step forward to rectify and curb the mercantilist drift of years of submission. And we think it's important, essentially, because we guarantee people who benefit from the service to care for people the best quality of the services they receive. Indeed, we reaffirm that service providers are public service providers; we do not condition the provision of services to persons at the economic disadvantage or at the freedom of the market; we reiterate that social initiative entities are a defining element of the social service system; we regulate a new standard for the provision of service providers to persons who facilitate their execution for entities in the third sector without a desire to work, and we open up the possibility of reserving, to certain social and solidary economic organisations – and in this respect I agree with the City Company, that we need to talk about what social economy means, especially in this case – certain sectors or subsectors of service providers. In short, we think that this draft law obviously reduces the large demands of the third sector to reduce the price criterion by awarding contracts to people; if not, we think that we could still go much further. For this reason, when the time comes, we will propose, among other things, better about the social responsibility of enterprises, equal opportunities and non-discrimination of LGBTI people, that the contractor company guarantees that the products object of this contract have been made for enterprises that comply with international law, the value of indefinite workers' contracts throughout the duration of the contract, the integration of fair trade, measures against sexual and gender-based adjustment, wage guarantees and reconciliation measures responsible for working, family and personal time. And here I am. There is a very important job already at the local level for what it does to the establishment of social, labor and environmental clauses; a brave job, which has done many times the local world completely sun. Therefore, very interesting work, brave work, which would be good if we could now collect and include it also in a law like this. Also the Code of Good Practices in the Public Contraction of People's Services, which was signed in October 2014 for a whole series of social entities and the Government of Catalonia, which exists, applies, but not as an obligation, but only as a recommendation. Therefore, now we have the opportunity to enclose it also in this law, and to expand it. In short, this bill presented to us by the Government, as we say, is a step forward, a small step forward, to rectify and curb the mercantilist drift of years of submission. But when we hear it, we can go a lot further. And, therefore, for our part, we will work whatever we want to improve it. It is time to banish for ever more the mercantile logic of the essential spaces of life. We can no longer subtend neither education, nor sanitation, nor university, nor the protection of people, nor cures, to the logics of which only seeks its private benefit. We want to be proud of our public services. We want the institutions to be old for the welfare of the people, to open a new era in Catalonia, where we will put the people from where we should never have been: from the center of all political action. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.321.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the Lady Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.322.0	Well, the whole system is looking for insurance instruments, and capitalism seems to have found a lot of power. This law is an example of this system's assurance instrument. If talking about sovereignty and putting people in the center means continuing to outsource services and continuing to allow these services to be under the business logic, then it seems to me that we have a big difference in conceptualization. The summer of 2017, unions, workers, social movements, plataforms in defense of public health and the same CUP - Crida Constituent we have already demonstrated the need and managed to put an end to the forward draft law of health care management formulas, promoted by the former Health Councillor with the delivery of more than two thousand signatures to the same councillor, demanding the prohibition of private activity to public health centers. This preliminary draft of the health field was promoted under the same justification for the implementation of the European Public Procurement Directive, which is the reason for the draft law presented today. Motivation and criticism of that pre-project, of all health workers – which certainly did not take people into account – can be applied directly to the People Service Bill, which consolidates the mixed public-private model of our public services. In the march of that campaign, we said: "Our salvation is not for sale. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. No more private paid with public resources, no more inequality, no more injustice to the system. Well, we see that this law applies to general medical practitioners, concierge services, residential nursing services, social assistance services without accommodation, domestic help, preschool education, university adult education. It also applies to family planning services. Either you are men or you do not serve public health, but that the family planning service is 100_per_cent public is absolutely transcendental for women across the country – it is absolutely transcendental. And it's a service that can put it absolutely in value. And this law allows this service to be managed by entities that they pursue is commercial interest, either directly or indirectly. And that's very hard for those of us who consider ourselves feminists. Today we can keep those slogans, we can keep saying that neither our salvation, nor our education, nor the socialization of the healing tasks are a bargain. They can say no to the legal theft of public services. We can also say no more private paid with public resources, no more inequality, no more injustice in the system. As is well known, the CUP has nothing against the social and solidary economy, obviously; but what cannot be covered by the social economy is what actually translates into a perverted benefit distribution of this concept, pre-charging the workers, who in the end are always the ones who end up paying for this perversion, those who end up maintaining a much higher workload, much higher annual work days and a significantly lower under-work day than those of the public sector. With Suara, Encis, Project... they're cooperative, aren't they? But you talk to the workers; you talk about the working conditions they have; you look at so many complaints that have come before the labour inspection; you look at how after working for this company, doing it in very precarious conditions, the workers are forced to capitalize on the work for the purpose of turning it into cooperative parts, so they don't take them in. That's not decent working conditions. What is worthy is a public cent_per_cent management, a project that talks about management, provision, public ownership, that we control from the Administration, with workers, with decent working conditions, with quality services, in which we do not need to talk about entities like Clece. Because Clece is perfectly able to present a contest with the literal of this law. Why? Because with a different NIF and complement these conditions and make these perversions of what we talk about, Clece, or any subsidiary of a construction or multi-serve company, can continue to present perfectly. And so, we keep saying that this law is more of an instrument of capitalism to rent its face, it's a makeup measure. And for us, that's not sovereign. For us, sobriety passes by to put people in the center. But to put people at the centre, we must always respond to the reproduction of life and not to the reproduction of capital.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.323.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.324.0	Thank you, President. Members and Members, Vice-President, will advise, well, precisely one of the things that someone might have thought is that the sovereignty that this Parliament has is exclusive, and, therefore, it is not so; the sovereignty of this Parliament is a shared sovereignty. And precisely, this bill is an example of this shared sovereignty: sovereignty shared with Spain, but also sovereignty shared with Europe. And, precisely, this draft law has its scope in two European directives, which I believe have a substantial modification of the contracting system. They do not say that they are directives of the fourth generation in contract matter, and what they come to do, succinctly, is to replace that criterion so estes, that the main criterion was to be the most advantageous economic offer, for a new criterion in which the most preponderant is the quality-price relationship. And, therefore, the value of the economic offers is reduced to increase the value of the qualitative aspects of the offers that can be presented. These directives... I think it's important to see, to frame in these directives this bill of law, because they pursue a series of objects, four, that they have a lot to see with this bill of law. A first objective is that of greater flexibility in the contracting process; a second objective is to facilitate access to small and medium-sized enterprises in public contracting processes; a better efficiency of the services that are contracted, and therefore of the follow-up, a fee awarded to these services, and also the absolvement of social objectives. I think it is worth highlighting this mark, because, depending on the legislation, we would act in the sense that they want the European directives or we would act in the opposite direction. So it's worth fixing yourself very well, fixing your attention very well. The system of contracting for social and other services – such as health care, such as education, we have said, for example, community services – have, for the first time, an important specific treatment in these directives, and it is also concrete in this bill of law, and it is concretely the reservation and the possibility of reserve of certain organizations that set up the directive, but all a follow-up of requirements that can be required for this purpose to precisely search for efficiency and find the best way of lasting these services to people. But we have to bear in mind that two types of operators coexist in this market. Operators co-exist, of course, mercantile businesses, and the third sector also coexists. And, in this sense, the directives also oblige us to maintain general principles. And these principles are to treat all economic operators equally and without discrimination, in a transparent manner, and also not to artificially restrict competition favouring or harming some economic operators. Therefore, as there is a conjunction here that, from the outset, seems complicated to us – that is possible, sure, and that is dealt with in the draft law, too –, what we did not just hear is like a draft law of these characteristics the same Government had not sent it to the Catalan Competition Authority so that it would dictate whether it found aspects that might be controversial by this law. The government did not do it, our parliamentary group did it. We asked the Catalan Competition Authority to please review this law to see if the interests explained in the directive were properly combined. It was precisely yesterday that the president replied to us that he had opened a report for the office to rule on this bill, since the government had not done so. Therefore, we would be very fond of what the Catalan Competence Authority tells us, we would be very fond of what they tell us regarding the coexistence of these two operators, two types of economic operators in relation to this law. And, finally, a second aspect, also the fruit of the subject of sovereignty, is that sovereignty, as I said, is shared, and there are doubts about the competences of the Government of the Generality and the competences of this Parliament in the matter of contracts...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.325.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.326.0	Twenty-second and I'm done, President. And, therefore, we went to look at the legal reports. The legal reports, some, before the State legislated, say: "It seems that the Generality has competence. And, therefore, with an assertion that, from a legal point of view, it is quite insecure. And then, for another band, he says: "Listen to me, the State has exclusive competence in the field of contracting. From the basic point of view, at this time, now, that will be approved and processed this law already has a law of the State that has the consideration of the basic law and that, therefore, we will also have to see the compatibility of this bill with the law of the State. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.327.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mr. Jordi Albert's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.328.0	Well, deputies, deputies. Thank you, President. We are here again... – Workers and Workers of Parliament also thanks and, above all, at these times – we are here again, in this case, with this law that continues its processing; a procedure that was interrupted by Article 155, as the Aragonese Councillor explained earlier, and a law that had been promoted in Raül Romeva, which was the Councillor who was close to these questions. We want to thank the Director General of Contractation, Mercè Correctia, who explained to us, who gave us this pedagogical session to explain the contents of this law. It's a law that she's worked a lot and has no doubt known any of this. And we always help them explain to us from the same government, but also from the same entities and businesses that are affected by this legislation... because sometimes they will have to recognize that Members and Members don't know everything. And in this case, therefore, it is important that we recognize it and that we also, therefore, at the end of the day, can do a doctorate on this question, surely, because we will work it very hard; but in its initial phase it is important that we have this support on behalf of those who have worked for so long and so long. In 2015, December 2015, there was an agreement, a signature of the Code of Public Contractual Bonds. This agreement is the one that gives basis, gives force to the law that we carry today. These very purposes are based on the quality, the expert, the professionalism, the expertise of the entities providing these services. And precisely this is the purpose of this law, it is the establishment of a specific public contract regime that is based on these principles of quality, continuity, accessibility, reliability, availability and completeness. And in effect it directly affects people's services, social services, community services, health care, and so many other services of direct care to people, which the rest of the groups have already been explaining. It is true that there are some points of the law that will still need to enter into a debate of majority in depth and in a debate with all the entities and enterprises that are questioned, and that are affected by the approval of this law. And that is why we also consider from the Republican Group that it is important that this debate be broadened and that in this debate there be the necessary appearances so that everyone can participate. And it is also very important that this chamber, the parliamentary groups that we are represented here, work in the same way that we are working from the beginning of this agenda point: with a voluntary of summarising, of working, of studying the document that we have in front of us and of seeing how we can make this law, really, represent the majority of our society. And that there is no one who can do it exclusively, but that, in change, can be a law of everyone. And so, that's the point that I think we're giving out today, too. In Article 3.2 of this Law, it has already been mentioned before, the management tasks are closed to appropriate media such as any other form of horizontal cooperation between contracting authorities under the terms of the European directives. That's an important point, because it means we're going through a very mercantile phase of feedback, huh? , of contracts that have fed each other from creating enterprises and sub-entrepreneurs. What we need is to open and allow a much wider _frame– a much wider_frame– that I precisely open the door to those small and medium-sized enterprises that do not have facilities to enter into this area of contract and that, moreover, I also open the door to those companies in the third sector or those cooperatives that also have difficulties in entering it. Therefore, it is important that we set the law always in a restrictive framework that allows us to – at the same time – open possibilities to those who do not have them at the moment, and that they work from the proximity and work from the quality of the service. In Article 100.1, for example, which has already been noted before the advisor, it is noted that it is not possible to exactly require as a demand for economic solvency and to finance an annual minimum volume of business greater than twice the value. And this goes into the same, twice the estimated value of the contract or the lot for which it is tendered. That's exactly the same line, huh? Companies and cooperatives, entities that can participate in it. There's a point I know it's a point that's probably gonna be hot to debate, and we're already putting it on the table. It is that of the annual value, or so, the annual entries that come by object of the motivation of the contract of the enterprise that, either entity or cooperative that if it wishes to present, must be equal to or greater than 60_per_cent of this contract object. And here it is true that I have spoken to several agents, who are being questioned by this law, and it is an element that we will surely have to put on the table, but the hope of this element seems essential to ensure the quality of the service. It seems to me decisive to ensure the quality of the service precisely in order to combat these enterprises which, as Mrs Alamany had said before, are doing many things at once, and certainly not doing it properly. And, therefore, this is the hope of this percentage. Then we go to Article 7. Article 7..., has been emphasized in one of the points..., Article 7 is the social responsibility of bidders. There has been a lot of emphasis in one of the points, which is that one of the requirements is to enable workers, users or associates to be part of the property's management structures and have the capacity and management power. In the writing of this article, there is a word... there is a word that for me is a key, it is the word "some –" some. That is to say, of all the criteria that are defined in this article, some must be completed, not all of them. This opens a door, but it's not closed, and it's important that we have a good reference to it, because sometimes we can make an overly restrictive interpretation and sometimes that interpretation will be appropriate. At this point, at this concrete point – and I'm saying that because it's one of the elements that has been placed on the table – the restrictive interpretation is not the right one, because..., but it allows not to close. And then there are other elements that haven't been commented on before, but I do want to focus on them, such as Articles 20 and 21. They seem very important to me, because one of the experts of this law is that there is precisely a continuous evaluation of the service to ensure its quality, not just in its initial bidding phase the 60_per_cent that goes to the quality and 40_per_cent of the departure that goes to evaluate the economic aspects. We don't just have to value quality here. We've got to value it a long way from the whole service. And, therefore, Articles 20 and 21 determine that there must be a contract manager signed with the contractor on behalf of the contracting agency, but the contractor has the duty to provide a person who is the contact and, therefore, between the two, to be able to make a continuous assessment of this service. And that's very important, because if this service is not the right one, it also backs up the relevant mechanisms so as to cancel the contract, extinguish this contract and get a better one in the service if it is proven and attests that this service does not complete what the departure of the conditions had determined. Therefore, from the beginning to the end of the term of this contract, it is clear that service and quality are the first, and this is decisive. And, last but not least, remember that this law is being pushed here to our country, Catalonia, and in change from the state it did not want to push forward, it did not want to develop Articles 76 and 77 of this European directive. In change here yes, here we take this risk and take this compromise, and this is a very valuable element, because here we consider that in effect the services of people, the services of people, the services of which every day we equip people are the services that we really need to prioritize in our policies, and this, this law, is one of these laws that respond to these needs. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.329.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] To end this turn of positions of the parliamentary groups, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, through Mr Josep Maria Forné. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.330.0	Mr. President, good night. We are already entering the final line of the day, which today has been quite marathon and, therefore, it seems to me that with this intervention it is over, because there is no longer a vote so much later. We have before us a bill of law that, as has been said, seeks to meet the needs of people covered with servants. And in this sense, the first thing I'd like to highlight is that it's a bill of law that's necessary and that's convenient. It is necessary because, this, because it regulates, regulates, guides attention, you serve people, taking into account that not all attention or service to people passes through the contract, but also through the concertation. Therefore, this law is to take up a parcel of attention, of serving people, does not take up all the coverage, so to speak, of needy people. They say they need people, all people, and especially those who somehow need them most, because their economic resources can't guarantee them a good service, because we already know that economic resources can guarantee a good service if you have them, these economic resources. Therefore, that part of the population that has the most difficulties must be guaranteed this service attention through standards, as this allows it to do. And it's more convenient. It is appropriate, as has been said and endorsed, because there are European directives which require it to be implemented in the reality of each country and of each situation, and in our case, of Catalonia. Therefore, we applaud in some way the need and convenience of doing this bill, proposing it, and bringing forward, on the part of the Government, this initiative to regulate, guide, the contract of service to people. But we also applaud the principles that somehow regulate this bill, and we applaud these principles, for example, taking into account that it is about flexible principles, that is, they do not narrow down the form of contract but allow and give different possibilities. The three possibilities that exist, which are those of the general contract, the restricted contract and even the entire reserve of contract that can be made, have already been highlighted. Another of the principles that we also applaud for this bill is respect for local autonomy, that is, that the actors that end up contracting, in this case mostly are joints, county councils and departments, three departments of the Generality, which are Education, Social Affairs and Health, so they can somehow adapt their needs and their services according to their local, territorial and different forms of reality. Besides, there is another principle that we also applaud for this bill, which is that it seeks the balance between those who have historically served this type of contract, this type of relationship, which are the third sector, a band, and the small and medium-sized company. We celebrate that it is in some way possible to attend to this recognition, with form, say, flexible, that we have before, of the contract, general, restricted, or even with reserve, with the third sector, but also that it is made recognition to the small and medium-sized company, which is one of the immense riches of our country. And in this sense, we would like to point out that we cannot demonize this small and medium-sized company because it has a commercial character. This economic activity of the small and medium-sized company in the provision of services, many times it is of social economy, all that has in its legal form the commercial character. Looking for a balance between the two forms or the two big thick providers is important and we believe that this bill of law is looking for this balance, and that's worth highlighting. Another of the principles that we also assign to the position of this bill is that it seeks to place in the center the quality of care, of service to people over other criteria, as has been said, as in this case the economic one, and that it commercializes an issue as important as the service of care to people. This will force us to look for quality indicators that guarantee that providers offer this quality. Another of the principles that we also identify as a positive one that seeks this bill of law is that it does not only guarantee that in the selection the best offer of provision of the services is sought, but also that in all its execution there is also a guarantee and a good execution, until the extreme that if there is no good guarantee the bill allows the termination of the contract and the offer of the coverage of this one served with other offers. In summary, as the Director General of the department very well said, Mrs. Mercè Corretja, this pretends to be a useful toolbox, which allows you to offer and guarantee good attention in people's services. This will force us, in a sense of doubt, throughout the process, force us to seek a consensus among all groups. It's important that I get you a maximum of consent in your final approval, so that I can get a maximum of consent in this bill that will guarantee good service to people and care for people. And since I am talking about caring for people – and with this I would like to finish my intervention – let me give a little thought to a difference that has been planned here today to the debate of the Parliament, of this plenary, which is that I would distinguish between two types of policy, a policy understood as serving and a policy as a mere exercise of power. It is true that the power demands to administer, but there is another concept, which is the one that brings the politics closer to ethics, which is the policy understood as it serves. And in this sense, I would like to highlight all the people who are in prison today, all the people who are in exile today, who have this concept of politics as they serve, but especially three people: Councillor Romeva, who was the driving force behind this bill in the previous legislature, a person who had this compromise and who has this compromise of service, of service policy, and the two social activists unjustly... who are now in prison, who are the Jordis, who with their concept of politics as they serve the community is paying a price of enormous injustice. And in this sense, end what some of my companies have started, saying we can't make it look like we're living in a normal situation. There have been reprisals, exiles and political prisoners to whom the State claims more than two hundred years in prison. That is why I accuse the Spanish State of lying, violating fundamental rights and criminalizing independence. We demand the prosecution of the cause and the release of all reprisals. We won't give up. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-07-1901.331.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, and as no papers have been presented to the whole, this initiative continues its processing. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Good night.
