ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.1.0	Good morning to everyone, MPs, MPs. They ask them to vagrant themselves and occupy their scons... thank you. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before starting today's order, I must inform you that, unfortunately, another woman died as a result of male violence, in this case, to Manresa. According to the official data of the Department of Interior, it is about the seventeen death victims of this year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime, which affects us all, and expresses our most sincere condolences. Again, I reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. [[Ask the Government about the cancer investigation]] [[310-00082/12]] We follow the order of the day, the tretzè are the questions with oral answer to the Government. The first question is about the cancer investigation. The question is posed by Mrs Gemma Espigares, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.2.0	Thank you, President; Vice President, good morning. Today, our parliamentary group wants to ask you about research, concretely, about cancer research in our country. He knows it's a rock that affects many of us, that affects a lot of men and women in this country and that every day there are twenty-eight people dying. Research has helped us move forward, helped us move forward to detect more than two hundred different types of cancer. It has helped us to move forward in the survival of cancer in our country; it has also helped us to prevent 40_percent of cases through healthy lifespans and also with diagnostic methods. Yesterday, in fact, we know the case of the Clinic, which will apply some pioneering methods to remove non-palpable tumors; but also with all the challenge of biomedicine, bioinformatics and personalized treatments. Investing a euro in search of our country is very profitable. In fact, for each euro we invest in recovering three in competitive funds. And of every two euros that the Spanish State captures, one goes to Catalonia. Therefore, we are competing in excellence teachership, with the ICREA program; also with the biomedical research program, with the PERIS, where the government invested €20 million in 2017. And, in a week like this, we cannot fail to mention La Marató, an initiative also, solidary, with many volunteers. That they didn't only help to recapturing two million euros, that I'm sure the researchers will make a good use of it, but that, in addition, it does a great amount of publicity to our country, which helps us. For all this, Vice-President, I would like to ask you about the size of these 216_million euros invested in Catalonia in research, about the survival and methods with which we are advancing, as we size the research at universities, at hospitals, but also at research centres and primary care centres. And I conclude, Vice-President, by asking him to continue, to continue to invest in salvation, he has seen that it is profitable, he has seen that in fact a good use and, above all, that the Health Plan continues to take into account biomedical research, in this case, too, cancer research. And in gender equality, which also deserves this perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of Mr Pere Aragonès, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.4.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Member, I answer this question on behalf of the Government, as a member of the Council of Health in office, while I last the maternity leave of the Vergés Councillor. This week's head was celebrating The Marathon. It was the twenty-seventh edition, with a recap record. In fact, at the twenty-and-seven editions of La Marató, more than 173, – 183, adding the gods of this week's chapter, 183_million euros, have financed until today eight hundred biomedical research projects, which have completed 7,500 researchers. In fact, biomedical research is one of the cornerstones of our country's research system. 40_percent of the research that is done in research centers, universities, is biomedical research. And one of the diseases that this biomedical research is primarily focused on is cancer. Therefore, fighting cancer is one of the priorities of this government's research policy. In Catalonia, each year approximately 36,000 new cancer cases are detected. It affects one_of_each_three Catalans; one_of_each men and one_of_four women we will end up patenting some type of cancer to the length of life. Therefore, it is a totally priority objective. The investment in research obviously has a return, and a return that, in the last two years, has increased the survival rate by 7_per_cent. Clinical assaults allow the introduction of new treatments and also of new detection systems: 6,500 clinical assaults that are produced in Catalonia every year and that have allowed, therefore, to increase early detention. Therefore, we are a leading country in research and investigation; we must continue to bet decisively on it. In the last approved assumptions, those of the year 2017, the presuppostari program in biomedical research that, obviously, there is not only the part of the Department of Health, but also significantly, all the contribution that it sees from the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, of Constellera Chacón, 143_million euros in this program presuppostari. We have to keep on betting, we have to keep on increasing, because we have a country that is fighting cancer and a country that is betting on research in life. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about linked families]] [[310-00083/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.5.0	Thank you, Vice President. The next question is about family ties. The question is posed by Mrs Jenn Díaz, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.6.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor El Homrani. The Department of Justice has created an application to guide separated couples with young children. The linked families, which until now have been reconstructed, but we consider that the word was not very curious, we do not just need an application, but the complicity and cooperation of the Government of the country. Family diversity must be one of our concerns, and it must be a cross-cutting concern. We want Justice to make this application popular, but we also want to work on it from the Department of Education, a simple exercise of a family tree creates unnecessary tensions and, in particular, from the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families. For this reason, counselor, we would like to expose our concern in the face of the inequalities and hardships suffered by the families linked to respect the families, let's say, traditional. To the difficulties of a separation, we must add the hostility of a « central government, which equates coexistence with our father, which creates us a series of disadvantages respect the first family, and an imagination that does not fit the reality. Our children and our children have two homes, one family and different needs in one band and the other. The nameless family card, to set a clear example, ends up becoming another of the fights between linked families. The first one to arrive, falls, conditioning the rest of the chords and understandings. So far, the Generalita duplicated the notebooks, they understand that our children and our children are part of two nuclei and two family units and that the children and their families, with shared custody, are not two different children, but one child, with two houses and perhaps two families and names. The linked families do not only have social recognition and remain invisible, with poorly defined roles and often judicially minorities in our community, and we are not yet sufficiently politically subject and therefore left out. That is why, Counselor, we would like to ask you: what is the position of the Government respecting the families linked and its organization, when more, is already a reality in our country? The application and its use can be a great tool, but it will only be if everything that surrounds us accompanies us and protects us from inequalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.8.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Miri, I would like to begin the answer explaining how we define, from the Interdepartmental Family Plan 2018-2021, what we understand as family: People who conform to a unit of coexistence and, or, have a bond of affection for solidarity and protection. The family is seen as a space of learning, protection, emotional support and co-responsibility. Therefore, we have diverse families, as the very name of the Department says. We are aware of family diversity, and we are aware that this diversity must be assumed and not only assumed, but must be recognized and celebrated. And it has to be celebrated from four key points: fundamental rights and equality; respect and recognition of diversity; participation and interaction; and belonging and citizenship. 2018, in a society like Catalan, it is necessary to claim diversity in order to be able to speak of cohesion and social development. From here on out, the family ties, how do we do it? Who are their problems? First, find that we have more than 95,000 family ties. Families with members come from different families, who believe they connect and go beyond the blood ties. What's the situation? The situation is that we have a law, 40/2003, which has two key aspects that discriminate. I, as long as it's discriminatory, generates inequality. One, does not allow a child to form part of two families at this time. Two, it prevails the criteria of coexistence, in case the parents are divorced and only one of the parents has the right to the title of a large family. This generates many problems, generates problems and does not contemplate diversity. Then he contemplates other problems, such as shared custody, discrimination, according to the parent. Who are the passes we've made from the department? One, we asked you to do a non-restrictive interpretation of this law, but before that – and we asked you to write it – what we did is push a modification of this law... [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] I've made it possible to ensure...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.9.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.10.0	[[...to secure the rights of all families in our country... (The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.)]] [[Ask the Government about the state in which the agreements to be signed with water and energy contractors in the Marc de la Llei 24/2015 are found, urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and energy poverty]] [[310-00081/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.272.0	The next question is about the state in which the agreements to be signed with water and energy contractors in the Marc of the Law 24/2015 are found, of urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and the poor energy. Question posed by Mrs Susanna Segovia, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.11.0	Thank you, President. First of all, we would like to express the condemnation and rebuff for the death of Professor Laura Luerno, who is more of a show of male violence and insecurity than women and who, moreover, also has family in Catalonia and we believe that this House should also recognize the pain and accompany the victim's relatives. Counselor, in which state is the agreement to be signed by the Generality in the Mark of the Law 24/2015, with the contractors sub-managers of basic services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.12.0	To answer, has the word Conseller Maria Àngels Chacón, Consellera d'Empresa i Coneixement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.13.0	Yes, President. Congresswoman, thank you very much. First, to say that the Generalitat has been one of the pioneer administrations dealing with the issue of poor energy. As a matter of urgency, there was a law amending the Code of Consumer Affairs in 2013 in this area, which was challenged by the Constitutional Court. In 2014, it is constituted the Energy Poverty Table, 2014, also, modification of the Consumer Code to extend protection to vulnerable people; also, with recourse to unconstitutionality. On July 29, 2015 the Law 24/2015 is approved, it is this law that establishes the agreements that you make. And, on behalf of the Spanish State, the decree of 2017 and the decree of 2018, in this matter. What does the 24/2015 Law establish? Set two measures to act: one, on issues of performance protocols. Here, for an appeal filed for Endesa have been declared null, these protocols. And then, it settles convenient. And two types, in the matter of water, gas and electricity. For what it does to the water agreement, there are more than twenty agreements signed by the Catalan Consumer Agency, and for what it does to electricity and energy, these agreements are not signed. Why? The law establishes a voluntary character in the signature of these arrangements and does not establish any presuppositional endowment for companies to apply the expected discounts. Therefore, we have two competent departments in this area: the Department of Social Affairs and the Department of Enterprise. One, the first, is in charge of the management and prevention of these aids, and the Department of Enterprise – which I agree with – of the closure of these suitable ones. But, I repeat, the character is voluntary. There is no presupposition, so no electrical companies have signed up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.14.0	To answer the question, Mrs Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. We are also glad that you have responded, because first they told us that the counselor would answer us, now we see that it is you. We wanted you to challenge us, because, effectively, it is a matter of corporate responsibility. So the question is, what does your government do to get businesses to do what the law says? Because you don't say you're volunteering. Businesses must sign and ensure that they do not sub-manage people in a vulnerable situation. What is the generality doing to do this? What is the Generality doing because companies solve the accumulated debt that vulnerable families have? By the year 2016, you said that it had been thirty-thousand statures. We don't have data from 2017, we don't have data from 2018, we don't know who carries the poor energy issues – now you tell us to wear it two departments – we don't know what the coordination is between these departments. Moreover, there is an increase in the pressure and attitude of businesses to families that have a debt with them. Only in Barcelona, 2,300 complaints 2018. Supposedly, from July onwards they would no longer do it; from then on, 1,125. The law does force you to establish these agreements with the Generality. It's the generality that has to work with businesses to set it up. There are only three – Endesa, Iberdrola and Naturgy –, 90_percent of the sector and 4,121_million benefits, and they do not sign agreements to respect the rights of poor families. Now there's a company, which is Barcelona Energia, which is looking for them, because they want to sign, and they're not giving them answers; they're giving them long, and they're going from one department to another department. We don't know what's going on with the fines, which they say they put down. We all remember the Rose, the Reus. We don't know what happened to those fines. We don't know what the government's answer is when businesses are judicially obstructing this. Vote in favour of a law as this means responsibility. We cannot forget the victims of poor energy until there is again another disgrace, and then, yes, we all run. Please, they don't know who they're looking for. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Pressing the companies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.16.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.17.0	...that's his deure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.18.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.19.0	If you look at the law, you'll see that they're willing. And it is in this sense that yesterday we had a meeting of the different departments and the Syndicate of Greuges, which also noted this fact, so as to seek solutions so as to try to coerce the enterprises to sign these agreements. With regard to the agreement that you are talking to us, in concrete terms, about the Barcelona Assembly, which is very good as regards holders, but there is no presuppositional provision to deal with this co-financing of the price reduction. And, as has been said, competitions in management and prevention, the Department of Social Affairs; sanctioning competitions, this department. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.20.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.21.0	I'll pass him all the sanctions... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.22.0	The next question is about the Covenant of States against General Violence. [[Ask the Government about the Covenant of States against General Violence]] [[310-00086/12]] Asks the question, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar, Mrs Beatriz Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.23.0	Yes, good morning, Counselor. On 18 October, Catalonia received €12.8 million from the Government of the State for the deployment of the measures of the State Pact against Gender Violence. This figure corresponds to 75_percent of the 2018 budgeted funds. On 16 November, the transfer of the remaining 25_per_cent was ordered, corresponding to an additional 4.26_million_euros. Catalonia is the second community that has received the most funds from the state to combat macho violence, in total we are talking about more than 17_million_de_euros. I would like to know what measures your Government has begun to deploy with this injection of resources and what measures it intends to take in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.24.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the President's Counsellor, Mrs. Elsa Artadi, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.25.0	Well, thank you. Thank you, Congresswoman, thank you that, in addition... you have had this oral question, because, as Congresswoman Segovia reminded you, it is a week when you see with great cruelty the slaughter of male violence. Indeed, there is a pact of state, a pact of state in which, when it was time to subscribe to it, on the part of the autonomous communities, we could not participate, because thanks to the collaboration of some parties in the application of 155, it had to be done by Minister Montserrat on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, which is already strong. It is true that we have confirmation of the arrival of the money, in communications of October, but it is money that will not arrive until the coming year. And, indeed, they are money that will fit into the National Pact, which is in September, we have already been working with the National Commission for Intervention against Masclist Violence; a pact that has been made in collaboration with entities, in collaboration with feminist experts, also professionally, with different institutions. And, therefore, it is money that goes to equip, in the band of suitable resources that the Government of Catalonia has already allocated, to equip this national pact that must be used to make a real change in a society that is male and that affects us all in the field of male violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.26.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.27.0	Yeah. I thank you for your answer. However, I would like to recall that these more than EUR 17 million represent a very significant figure, and that they have already become effective. In fact, it almost doubles what your government had planned to invest in all 2018 to eradicate the macho violence, which, I inform you yourself, on 3 September, was €9,750,000. My group is concerned that these resources are used most efficiently, because his Government has been defined several times in this parliamentary seat as a feminist and has stated that it will make the fight against gender-based violence a priority, but so far this will has not been translated into facts or resources. Last week, during the debate on the motion on macho violence, here in Parliament, we were able to see that the amendments tabled by the political parties that are part of his Government were aimed at cutting and avoiding taking on the specific budgetary commitments that he was asked to make. This is in a context where investment in the fight against macho violence is totally inadequate. The Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez has been able to put on the table 120_million_de_euros, from budgets inherited from the Government of the People's Party so that Catalonia and the rest of the autonomous communities are able to face this scourge. On the other hand, this government is unable if it wants to recover the investment levels of 2010. We hope that the budgets that your Government will present to us in the coming weeks will give effect to this will, which you express, to move from words to facts especially on a day when we are regretting a new victim of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.28.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.29.0	...machist violence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.30.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To clarify the figures, the 9_million to which you refer is the assumption of the ICD, clearly. I've already seen the Councillor of Justice, the Councillor of Work and Social Afers. They're devoting a lot more resources. In fact, the assumption that there is of 2017, the estimate also in housing policies, is 30_million no of 9, as you say. If what concerns you is that resources are intended in an efficient way, I will explain to you what the government of Pedro Sánchez has done. It is said that there would be about 3 million of them destined, within this pact, for the municipal authorities. When they were published last week – oh, surprise! –, they have reduced by 40_per_cent and in the municipalities they only arrive at 2_million. But if precisely what concerns us no longer is only the xifra, but the efficiency, a superefficient way that the government of Pedro Sánchez has made that it is to give to a lot of assemblies with a population of less than twenty thousand inhabitants resources of 600_euros, between 600 and 700_euros, to a lot of municipalities to make policies against male violence. Instead of taking advantage of the local councils, instead of taking advantage of the coordination of the Generality to pool services and be more efficient at the time of giving response.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.32.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[Ask the Government about the arms policy announced by the Government of the State]] [[310-00087/12]] The next question is about the arms policy announced for the Government of the State. Asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Anna Geli.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.33.0	Conselhéra, a former foreign minister, was Minister of Defense, was Mrs. Margarita Robles announced that eth Govèrn Espanhòu will allocate €7,331 million before investing them in weapons programs. Seconds was Minister deth Govèrn of Pedro Sánchez, august millions are entà« at the expense of social pramor of this creation of locos de trabalh. It is not possible to be cynical and mislead the citizens so skilfully, gentlemen and gentlemen, Members. It was Mrs.Robles's love after a right and a social well-being – she was lacking in working classes – then justified that unnecessary expense and immoved that she tried, despite the use of ammunition and explosions, human deaths, all of which were civil in places such as Yemen. What kind of clean way was his conscience, eh, Govèrn Espanhòu? Was he selling weapons now Saudi Arabia? So, use the words of the Foreign Minister, Mr. Borrell, to say that weapons do not produce collateral effects and that they are precise forces. So, I gave him to the minister that from the end of 2015, and enquire about a death in Yemen, according to the Bureau of Human Rights of United Nations, 6,600 civilians and more than 10,000 heirs. How can you be a proud government and captain of this? In humanitarian terms, that's disastrous news. It was the European Union at a later date, a denial of a licence to export arms if there was a manifest risk that you could be used by entities committing gross violations of international humanitarian law. Spain is vulnerable to international dealings because I will sell arms. Atau ei facil ester eth setau country deth my arms exporter next eth SIPRI. It was an arms industry that grew exponentially every year and kept us to where, in an attack, no crisis was suffered, surely because the Spaniards were interested in the force eth bastiment of armoured vehicles, it was modernization of Eurofighters hunting and it was construction of five frigates. For all those who criticise Catalonia, upholstered by the fiscal deficit, year to know that I am supposed to now military shame and law all ethos ethos presupòst deth Government now Generality in matter of policies destined now greeting the ethos presupòst of teaching and labor and Ahèrs Sociaus et Familles, piled up. For this reason, Counselor, what was the ethos of this Government's political position in the matter of arms announced by the Spanish Government?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.34.0	To answer the question, the President's Counsellor, Mrs. Elsa Artadi, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.35.0	Well, thank you, Congresswoman. Thank you, Member of Parliament, for taking advantage of the plenary to denounce the decision of last week's Council of Ministers. He made the increase in military spending greater than in 1997; that is to say, from the government of Mr Aznar. It seems that at the time of approval of military expenditure it is not possible to approve assumptions, which can be made. It seems that this applies to military expenditure, but it does not apply to incompliments against Catalonia. This decision is totally unwarranted, and you in plain reference, Minister Robles makes a macabre application of Keynesianism and says that as this creates jobs, this is already social expense. I suppose it doesn't matter if the guns kill or heal, let's just say it. It seems that in these cases the PSOE government and the PP government come together very much, and it is that in the management of what is military expenditure, the armamentist expenditure, is extremely opaque. We do not know what is spent on the set of ministries that have responsibilities, nor the usual practice of presupposing a xifra and then executing another. We all know what's going on with Fomento, what's going on with investments when they're in Catalonia, so with the weaponry, the opposite is exactly the case: it's supposed to be a big gypsum and it's going to be a lot bigger. I suppose it's a priority issue. So much so that the same Constitutional Court and the Court of Auditors have already ruled against this practice which is usual, that it is a practice which serves to store citizens and, above all, the control of Parliament which is the government's will. But, of course, it's about buying weapons and not consulting with the citizenry, so that doesn't have any consequences, because everyone knows that consulting with the citizenry is a lot more dangerous than buying weapons. And you're in plain reference, with frigates, armor, etc. I suppose they'll give explanations of what this policy is, if they want to impress someone or they want to buy someone else's favor or friendship. There is a centre, Centre delàs d'Estudis per la Pau, which is trying to add, precisely in all this opacity and lack of transparency, the amounts of military spending in the Spanish State. They arrive at a xifra of 20,000_million per year, which is a lot. Remember that this means that around 4,000_million are paid with the taxes of all Catalans. Yesterday we made the plethora of childhood, tomorrow we will vote resolutions. Surely there would be consensus in many resolutions that we would like to approve, and with an exercise of sincerity we all know that it is a lack of assumptions that will prevent it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.36.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[Ask the Government about the information given to the press about the events of August 17 and 18, 2017 (withdrawn)]] [[310-00088/12]] I am sure that the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group has withdrawn the question that was going to follow. So, let's get to the question... [[Ask the Government about the prosecution's performance criteria]] [[310-00089/12]] ... on the criteria for the prosecution's action, a question asked for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya. The speech is made by Mr Marc Solsona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.37.0	Thank you, President; good morning. Counselor, good morning. Yesterday, two fellow Members began the wave of fame, and seven, which two more joined to denounce the slowness of justice in resolving and giving answer to the resources of the emperor for which they have submitted a long time ago. That's why today, more than ever, I respect and support all of them. The question I am asking you, counsel, is what the government and its counsel have about the prosecution's actions, or about the prosecution's non-actions. And we would basically do it based on three concepts, or three aspects: the first, to find that after one year the persecution of elected officials continues to be a fact; the second, the perception of a double-speed prosecution, depending on the themes, is to say, it does not act with equal speed before the persecution and the setting up of elected officials, which are before the paintings, threats or actions of cars that are violently returned, too, by different groups also Feixists, and, third, to find a concern, that the inaction and abandonment of the prosecution's action, keeping open investigations and without general archives, can turn it into the protagonist of the municipal elections here at six, that the failure and abandonment of the prosecution's action, keeping the constitution of the municipal office, and the construction of the can also be done by the municipal authorities. This question, Counselor, is a question that they intend to ask themselves in self-defense of what we all represent, which is defencelessness before arbitrariness and permanent suspension. This wants to be an altarpiece of indignation and disaffection before a justice that we understand a little fair. Today, at the door of a monographic ple where some will speak of violation of the rights of the deputies, today, now and here, I hand over to you the personal witness and hundreds of elected officials who see, notice and suffer political persecution in all its forms. That's why, Counselor, so let's ask her this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.38.0	To answer the word, Ms. Ester Capella, Counselor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.39.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. From the Government of the Generality we are fully aware of this situation, we are aware of the continued citations of mayors and mayors of our country, who have had to go to declare before the referendum of October 1st, which I remember is not a crime – I remember, in case someone is awake and still thinking that he is in the Penal Code – and that they have still gone on, as you said when you asked the question. Mayors and mayors who, with the exception of some concrete case, experience a situation of absolute defencelessness, because many times they have declared without knowing perfectly, therefore, what is being blamed and what is being investigated. Therefore, it is an anomalous investigation, which has its origin in an improper instruction of the Attorney General of the State. The Government of Catalonia cannot share or share, nor can it learn, the absolute indifference that, on the other hand, the prosecution held in the back of the rights and public freedoms; individual rights and also collective rights, and individual freedoms and collective freedoms. The absolute indifference of the prosecution, while the activity of the extreme right, the violent activity of the extreme right has multiplied and acted with impunity for the streets and places of our towns and cities. All of this, while the public ministry acts and continues to act as the ram of the repression of the State against a political movement such as the independence movement. It is no longer about '1 October or the subsequent declaration of independence. The prosecution is part of this repressive action of the State against independence. We need a public ministry that complements the functions and purposes of law: independent, neutral, in defense of legality, of the rights of all citizens, of citizens, of general interest, of common good, of justice. Unfortunately, however, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions is a private ministry, directly obeys the orders of the Government, is designated for the Government, etc. And I finish, because, in case anyone has lost sight of it, I will also insist on a question: independence, independence movement, is a political, ideological, lawful, legitimate, democratic and peaceful option, which has been expressed as always, and will be expressed, as we have always done, in a peaceful, democratic and lawful way. [[Widow's remorse.]] So, even though they say some things I feel like I'm here, that I just said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.40.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.41.0	...the deputy, so... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.42.0	The next question... [[Question to the Government on the prospects of the Catalan economy]] [[310-00084/12]] ... it is about the prospects of the Catalan economy and the formula Mr. José María Cano, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.43.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Vice-President, my question will be very clear: what effect will it have on the Catalan economy, and in particular on employment, the fact that your Government does not comply with the laws and sentences, as you have already announced you will do, as well as the support you are giving to the illegal acts promoted by the separatist commands?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.44.0	To answer, the words of Mr Pere Aragonès, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.45.0	The Government of Catalonia is a government that trusts in the Catalan economy, that trusts its workers, in its businesses, and that we are focused not on campaigning to discredit the potential of the Catalan economy, but on devoting all efforts, precisely, to generating more jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.46.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.47.0	Mr. Vice President, don't keep fooling the Catalans. You have to be brave and explain to them the raw reality that awaits us. You have that responsibility, you are the highest responsible for the economy of the Generalitat. Report the damage your failed separatist project is going to cause. Thousands of companies have already fled. We have already seen the negative effects on the economic sectors, which react more quickly to the legal uncertainty and political instability that they have generated, key sectors of employment generation, such as tourism, with a fall of foreign visitors, and of visitors from the rest of Spain of almost 5_per_cent. The effects on retail trade and on sales of large areas, which evolve below the Spanish average. We have gone from being the locomotive of Spain to going in the queue cars. The main indicators of the industrial sector already show us an economic slowdown more intense than in the rest of Spain, with a half-point decrease in industrial productivity, with a decrease in the turnover of 4,2_per_cent, with a decrease in the entry of orders of 3,4_per_cent. Businesses have fallen, business creation has fallen by 7_per_cent. Entrepreneurs have lost their confidence in the Catalan economy, and so have foreign investors, with a foreign investment that has been in free fall for a year and a half, with a cumulative decline in the second quarter of the 40_per_cent. And this Friday, acting in a conscious and totally irresponsible way, they will once again attack the Catalan economy, they will again attack the well-being of Catalans, giving support and coverage to the violent actions of the separatist commanders. And those who suffer will be the weakest, 95_per_cent of our corporate fabric, the autonomous and small businesses, which on these Christmas dates are played more than 25_per_cent of their billing. And you know what? They cannot take the first step and change their head office, as large companies did. They are faced with the closure of their businesses with the consequent loss of jobs. The world's economic prospects are not encouraging, and in Catalonia you are making them worse. They are leading us to the economic disaster, and the effects are already irreversible in the short term. Mr Vice-President, you have reports on the table warning you of what is coming on us. It will therefore not be able to claim ignorance and, if they do not cease to drift, it will be responsible for all the suffering they cause.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.48.0	Congressman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] To answer, again the deputy president of the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.49.0	Stop lying at once. [[Greetings.]] Stop lying and saying that this government is supporting violence! We always, always, always reject any kind of violence, any kind of violence, have the flag that I have, have the flag that I have! And if there's an independencer who acts violently, we reject it, because it embarrasses us, and they demand that you do the same when the extreme right-hand side of this country's streets. That's enough! [[Greetings.]] That's enough, Mr. Cano! You're smarter than that, to make these kinds of proposals. Please, please, Mr. Congressman, speak with propriety. And let's talk about economics. You've started talking about tourism, and you've started talking about tourism, and you've shown an absolute lack of knowledge, because you don't know what the dynamic of competing markets in ours is, which are recovering. And, therefore, it shows an absolute disconnection. It also demonstrates an absolute disconnection of the data of the evolution of the economy of this country. You've been saying for a year that there would be a spectacular economic catastrophe here. In fact, they were based on this good part of their electoral campaign. Third quarter of 2017, 12,54_per_cent atur tax. Third quarter of 2018, 10.63_per_cent, a two-point prop reduction. Tell the people who have found work that this year has gone wrong. So no. And what's going on? And that happens because the Catalan economy is very strong. The Catalan economy is an open economy, so it is also an economy sensitive to the dynamics of international markets and an innovative economy. But we also have structural problems, and I will quote two: structural problems of infrastructure. You have given support to some general assumptions of the State that once again mark a presumptive reversal – that we will see which one will be executed –, of 10_per_cent, when we are 19_per_cent of GDP and 16_per_cent of the population. You should also look at your responsibilities. And second, according to the structural problem: this country has also emerged from the crisis thanks to the wage devaluation, and this cannot happen again, we cannot get out of the crisis based on loading it on the workers' spaces of this country that are impoverishing themselves with their wages, and their proposals in labor matters, which are bringing to an end the Congress of Deputies, are in this line, deregulating work and protecting capital. And, before that, they will always find the Government of the Generality in positions of control: to favor the people, to promote the creation of jobs and an open and innovative economy, which when Catalonia has apostated for this is when Catalonia has improved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.50.0	Vice-President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.51.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.52.0	...time is running out. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government on the representation of the Generality in inter-governmental and administrative bodies]] [[310-00085/12]] The next question is about the representation of the Generality in the inter-administrative and intergovernmental bodies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.53.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Artadi, in spite of your government, Catalonia is a community... [[Widow's remorse.]] I guess Mrs. Artadi will answer, won't she? [[Pause.]] Now. Who? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You; all right, Mr. Vice President. Despite its government, Catalonia is an autonomous community of Spain and is one of the most prosperous regions of the European Union. And I say to your regret, because if it were for you, you would only go to the forums created by the process. Can you give me a reason, Mr Vice-President, for refusing to represent autonomy in the Councils of the European Union, as La Vanguardia says? Can you give me a reason why they abandon their duties? You have time to go to Waterloo to meet Mr Puigdemont, but you do not have time to go to Brussels to represent the interests of all Catalans. Between what is useful and what is useless, you always choose what is useless. Look, just give me one reason, give me one reason why they renounce being the government of all and representing all Catalans before the European Union and in the forums of the rest of Spain. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.54.0	To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.55.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Member, in the mechanism of rotating representation of autonomous communities in the Councils of Ministers of the European Union, the word is taken if the Minister of Return of the Spanish Government pleases, and it is a common position of the group of autonomous communities to express the autonomous community in question. Therefore, it is not the defence of Catalonia's specific interests. In some cases there are total contradictions, for example, to the common agricultural policy. This is why we have been directly involved in the European Union. And as you say: "This, for an autonomous community, has many limits, therefore, that is precisely why we defend being an independent state in the framework of the European Union. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.56.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.57.0	Yes, look, we've asked him for a reason, but a reason that's worth the 7_million_and_average Catalans, not worth to his independent followers. You govern for all, not just for your independenceist followers, that those might understand the reason you give me to leave the chair empty in all European forums and in all the forums of the autonomous communities of Spain. Look, those are real forums, where things are really discussed, not the chiringuites that you set up around Europe and around the world. You say you want a state, because you..., if you don't know how to manage even an autonomous community, if you don't know how to govern even according to a globalized world and a strong Europe, the interests of all Catalans. Look, you, therefore, paint less and less in Spain and Europe, while your political choice is diluting, while you expel your partners from the group of liberals and Europeans in the Parliament of Europe and we are among the most powerful there. [[remorse of the voice]] While we weave alliances with Macron... [[Funnel veils]] Yes, sir, and you knit them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.58.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.59.0	...with the extreme right Flemish.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.60.0	Time's up, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] To answer, again, the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.61.0	Thank you very much. I see, by his intervention, that modesty in politics is a scathing resort. [[Give me the applause.]] In any case, speaking of extreme right and partners, I don't want to look to the north, we look to the south, much to the will, we look to Andalusia: I will love to see what you do with Vox, to see you do with Vox, with this extreme right, which is to which you support, which is in the Supreme Court and which you accept in the Supreme Court, so that I accuse our companies and companies. Therefore, the extreme right, yes, we know it, we've suffered it in the streets, some of which are taking photographs with you– I'm still waiting for your rebuff– [[applause]] And we're patenting it in the courts, when they're free to arm the prosecutor's office. In any case, we will participate, we will participate at all times; we will participate at all times where it is useful – where it is useful. What we're not going to do is make a cosmetic participation. The debates in truth, the debates at the time of being able to defend the interests of Catalonia..., in multilateral forums, where all is agreed before, where there is a dominant unilateral position, as happens in many multilateral forums of autonomous communities with the State, are not useful. That's why we've always complained and today we claim more than ever the bilateral relationship with the State. You talk to me about "siringuitos, but I, if you want, speak of a chiringuitazo, to which you give support day after day, as is the Spanish Crown. The Spanish Crown is the big chiringuitazo [[applause]] That we wear for three hundred years in this country. Therefore, you, Mr. Carrizosa, of "syringuitos en sa molto and I believe that you can give us many lessons. Thank you very much, honourable Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.62.0	The next question is about the appointment of members of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation [[Ask the Government about the nomination of members of the Board of Governor of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[310-00080/12]] Formulated for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the question is presented by the MP Natàlia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.63.0	Well, good morning. Counselor, we insist: can you update us on the state of the issue with regard to the renewal of the "body" government, please?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.64.0	To answer the word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.65.0	Yeah. The renewal of the governing bodies of the « body of the ACC, but above all of the Parliament of Catalonia, not of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.66.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.67.0	Well, as you know, we ask this question and we insist on the news that we have rejected, but neither have they denied any of the groups that theoretically have reached a precord – Citizens, the PSC, Juntes per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana – in relation to the members who would form part of the corporate government. So, as they have neither denied nor explained to us... we celebrate that we guarantee that renewal is debated and spoken transparently in their parliament, that it is being played, because we understand that the government of the corporation of public, democratic and transparent media must respond, as defined, to their parliament. And we are concerned that these reports are transmitted on possible agreements in which they are shared with political loyalties by falling and subs, as we have already said, in relation to the government of the body, and that, moreover, the parties that form part of the government are shared with zippers – a yes, a no – also the direction of public television and the public radio in our country. They will understand that this concern is expressed in a very insistent way in their parliament, because you have not made clear what your position is, have not made clear what you will do with the government of the body. And we ask them again: will the majorities that have been donated in this Parliament, with broad consensus on the need to modify Catalonia's Audiovisual Law? Will it be worth it that you have also participated in, and rejoice in, this consensus? They'll take him away for miles, and who's going to spend the rest of the day? We insist, there are broad consensus in this country to ensure that public media are public, transparent, democratic and do not respond to party logic: neither the need for pressure from the fans of the 155th bench nor a government logic, as we understand they want to do. Do we insist, will they make the consensus of this chamber go away? Will the consensus between the professionals of journalism and communication, who have been asking for years to ensure that public media are democratic and transparent, be worth it? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.68.0	To answer, again, the word has the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.69.0	Member of Parliament, you refer to news about agreements between parliamentary groups; you yourself say it: it is between parliamentary groups, and therefore you correspond to parliamentary groups giving explanations, and not to the Government, that it is not the Government that decides how it is done, but that it is this chamber, it is this chamber through procedures that also affect the ACC. In parallel, and also the parliamentary groups of this chamber, all the parliamentary groups have entered the amendment of the law, the amendment of the law in the short term, because it is obvious that there must be no other in the long term, which faces the challenges with which the audiovisual sector in Catalonia finds itself. They have entered it, all the groups have signed it, and therefore I am the place for you to continue to dialogue and speak with the parliamentary groups, all the parliamentary groups, to clarify where this situation is. But I say again: this is not a government responsibility, because it is not the government that hears the members of the corporation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.70.0	You're going to ask the government. [[Asks the President of the Generality about plans and measures to minimize the effects of the mobilisations of 21 December in Barcelona]] [[317-00046/12]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.71.0	Yes; thank you, President. Yes, Mr. Torra, what exact plans and concrete measures do you have so that on Friday 21 parents can safely take their children to school; that businesses can be opened quietly and people can go to buy from them; that you can go out to work outside Barcelona, who has to do it, or enter Barcelona to whom it corresponds, in short, to guarantee the freedom and security of Catalans next Friday? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.72.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.73.0	Yeah, good morning. Now I'll answer your question, but before you answer me one more – I have to answer another – because today, this morning, you have made some very serious and absolutely intolerable expressions in the Congress on behalf of your political leader, very serious. He said I was looking for a bloodshed and a civil war. It seems absolutely intolerable. And I'm asking you to now, here, today, you reject these expressions, right now. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.74.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.75.0	The control session, Mr. Torra, is for you, not for me. I know that this is a pity for democracy, but learn the basic rules for the functioning of democracy. You have to answer it. From the absence of a concrete answer, I take it that it matters to you that parents can take their children to school on Friday; that it brings you carelessly that traders can also open their businesses and that people can buy in them; that it does not matter at all if people can go in and out of Barcelona to go to their jobs. Look, you continue – and look that I have made it easy with the question – in your mystical Catalonia, in which the rights and freedoms of Catalans are always subject to identity obsession. I've asked you twice to resign. The first was because of the evidence that he lacked a strong parliamentary majority to support his government action and the corresponding legislation. The second was when he launched the arena that ended in a very serious attempt at assault, in democratic terms, on this Parliament. Later, already, when you turned to the Slovenian track, what I transferred to you was directly an announcement, and that is that we would dismiss you at the time we were back in the Moncloa. At this point, and until that happens, I now appeal to you for what remains of dignity, Mr Torra, and decency, and for you to leave the government, for fresh air to enter the presidency of the Generalitat de Catalunya, for someone to direct it with the ideology that has a parliamentary majority, I do not say no, but to protect people, to defend their rights, to guarantee the security and freedom of people. Don't you have anyone, gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, who defends the rights, freedoms and security of people? Don't you have anyone? Is your ideology incompatible with people's security? Do you have a little bit of bully shame and decency left to be able to defend that on the 21st people can go to their work without fear and take their children to school? We already know that Mr. Torra is not going to do it. I appeal to your decency and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.76.0	To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.77.0	Mr. Fernández, you cannot appeal to any decency or dignity if you do not reject the statements made this morning. I cannot appeal to decency or dignity. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, do not use these expressions. The Government of Catalonia guarantees the security of the country, guarantees the fundamental rights of the country; it has always done so, it will sell it and it will do so every day, every day, every day, this Government guarantees the security of the streets and guarantees the freedoms and the fundamental rights of that country, the right to concentration, the right to freedom of expression, it is clear that it does. Because this is a democratic country and it has a democratic police, that it ages for all folds and ages for the security of all folds, and therefore owes the major of respect. Therefore, I do not question security in this country. Don't play with the security of this country, don't play with it, it's a very serious irresponsibility. And we know very well these fictitious relationships, we know perfectly well these fictitious relationships, you, which are invented, of violence. If we know them perfectly! If they've taken our company to prison, they've taken them to prison, these fictitious rape reports! Therefore, yours [[Funnel veils]] ... No, the judges, no; the fictional accounts – the fictional accounts – created many times from this chamber. Because you never wanted to play the political card and you've tried everything. And now they want to re-create another invented relationship. Is it that they're thinking... is it that you're interested in selling something? I, in turn, am convinced – I am convinced –, as I have always been, of the people of Catalonia, that they will act with the most..., firm, with the greatest civilization. Because that's what our people are about: it's firm, serene and civil. And that's what I'm convinced is what you're going to be selling. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.78.0	The next question is about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the discussion of the social agenda at the meeting with the President of the Government of the State before the Council of Ministers of 21 December in Barcelona]] [[317-00047/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.79.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, I also want to ask you about the divender 21, but more concretely we hope that there will be a meeting between the two governments, between the government of Pedro Sánchez and his government. And what we want to know is whether in this advance of the bilaterality that Catalonia deserves, if you want to talk more about the need for a democratic and dialogueal exit to the national conflict that we are experiencing, if you also want to talk about overcoming the judicialization of politics; but we also want to know if you are willing to expand the agenda, to talk about the Catalan social agenda, to put on the table the demands that have been made by the health professionals, the workers and the public workers, the squadron movements, the bombers, the teachers, and also what was spoken about yesterday in the plenary specific of childhood. We'd like to know if all these demands..., if you'd listen to the streets and Parliament and move it to the diver's meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.80.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.81.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Actually, we're the ones in the dialog, we're the ones in the right to have rights, and so we're willing to have this government-to-government meeting and talk about everything. I'd just miss it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.82.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.83.0	Yes, thank you, President. This week it's important, for the dialog and for the bilaterality, that a window of opportunity is opened so that we can get out of the block we're in. It's true that maybe it's not the best days, because we're surrounded by soroll, a soroll that goes after the 155th threat a few days ago, but also its occurrences of the Slovenian way. And we think it's a big deal, because this meeting is important and it's going to happen in a context where we think the government of Catalonia is weak because of its internal barriers and the disorientation the government has, and because we're at a time when we're asking the government that governments are turning into something revolutionary. President, about self-determination, we ask him to demand it, but above all he speaks of the dialect in Catalonia. We have the Dial Table, the one that we made a meeting, absolutely stuck and blocked. And one day you talk about dialogue and the other about the Slovenian street. Therefore, we ask for dialogue and self-determination with the Government of Spain, but also in the Catalonian dialogue. And on the Catalan social agenda we have heard them say that for you they are not central issues or priorities. We rejoice that by the end they follow, and we also rejoice that in this supposed gathering we will have to sell you to the table. I am convinced that there are a majority of Catalans and Catalans who, beyond gesticulation, want and need to move forward on the path of dialogue and great agreements. The prepotency of the Government of Spain believes that it does not help, saying that there will be no political proposal in the table until the trial is over. We believe that this is inexplicable, but it is not as good as the excuse for not being able to continue to advance on the Catalan social agenda. It's not about Sanchez; it's about the workers and the workers who are poor and who don't arrive at the end of the month, and there's more than 40 percent of the young...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.84.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.85.0	...who now sees the worst of what their peers do. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.86.0	To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.87.0	Yes, honourable Member, I agree with some of the things that you have said, but I strongly disagree with others, especially the major: this government governs, this government plans, this government has put forward some assumptions, the most social ones that have ever presented themselves – you know perfectly well: the most social ones – and we expect to count on your vote and on the votes of other companies that you post – to increase the social parties by 10_per_cent, which you know is what we have set up. It's a very important week – it's a very important week. It's a week of dialogue. We've been pushing it since the first moment. Imagine if we have pushed the dialog that, having political prisoners in prison, having exiles outside Catalonia, we are still betting on the path of dialogue and negotiation, it is clear that it is: internal and with the Government of Spain. Internal: point's, we already have a pre-booked date of the Dialeg Table, the 8th of February. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, perfect. Because we want to go deeper into the path of the dialog. We will never – ever – stop talking to the groups of this chamber that want to talk to. I invite all the groups of this room to meet us on the 8th of February another time in Palau to keep talking – to keep talking – because we have to keep talking – we have to keep talking. And we'll never give up on the way to the dialy. Therefore, internal dialogue in Catalonia, of course it is. And that's exactly how many questions came out, huh? , on which are the great consensuss of Catalan society– great consensuss–, okay? In this year, and in all these years of the independence process, these great consensus have been created; here we must find the political fate that is the political conflict in Catalonia. So let's work together. And in front of the State? We're always open to dialogue. Always – always. And when I come out to foreigner, when I make the meetings I do, listen, what people admire is precisely our ability to speak, to civilise, tolerance, respect: respect for human rights, respect for civil rights. These are our flags and the world understands it perfectly – the world understands it perfectly. Who went to visit political prisoners yesterday in the name of fame? The Ai Weiwei, one of the world's most important pacifist activist leaders. They understand it perfectly, which is the struggle of Catalans for civil, human, social rights and their right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.88.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.89.0	The world understands it perfectly. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.90.0	The next question... [[Asks the President of the Generality about his institutional representation with the motto of the Council of Ministers of 21 December in Barcelona and the necessary dialogue attitude in view of the meeting with the President of the Government of the State]] [[317-00045/12]] ...the formula Mr. Miquel Iceta on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.91.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Many honourable President, I regret to reiterate the question, but I do so – I believe – with another intention and with another intention than other representatives of the parliamentary groups. Indeed, a Council of Ministers is held in Barcelona and I wanted to know what will be its institutional capture with the motivation of this meeting, given that you hold the highest representation of the Generality and that it is also the ordinary representative of the State in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.92.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.93.0	My official commitment is to respect the meeting held by the Council of Ministers in Barcelona, which they have decided to hold in Barcelona. It is obvious that we believe that this is not the best date to celebrate, but the Council of Ministers, therefore, has all the right to meet in Barcelona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.94.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.95.0	I would like to thank him for his answer; what happens is that he will have to understand that I think it may be an insufficient hair. I think we're at a very delicate time, and the development of this control session shows it, but it's also a time when the most political leaders have to be able to take risks. Risking is getting out of the comfort zones; risking means being actually available to a dialect, which means being willing to listen to things that we don't like, to recognize that maybe the conditions to move forward aren't just the right ones, but can be very difficult, but complete with our obligation. Theirs, in particular, is particularly delicate, because it is true that the Presidency of the Generality is responsible for a majority of Parliaments, but from the point of view of its institutional representation it must be able to aspire to represent the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans. And, therefore, a lot of people will be waiting to see what's going on. I hope that a contact can be made at the highest level between the two heads of Government; I think it is important that we know some of the starting positions, that they are well extended... You have repeatedly said what you want to talk about and the President of the Government of Spain wants to talk about other things. Mirin, I would recommend modestly, humbly: talking about everything. But we do manage that the recovery of the institutional relations of both governments, which was possible thanks to the change of the Government of Spain, is maintained, served to reach agreement – some of us have already seen them, but we would like to see more in the future. From our point of view, the bilateral relationship is more than guaranteed with the contact that can be produced, but we would also like to leave behind our concern for the abandonment, on the part of the representatives of the Generality, of the multilateral mechanisms of relationship. We need to have all the bridges, all the wires, stop digging trenches and start actually building the necessary bridges. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.96.0	To answer, again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.97.0	Yes, thank you. Mr. Congressman, today we can share the pin that you carry of "dialeg, eh? We could share it. Because I insist: we have never failed to appeal to the dialog – never. And I think it is precisely a great opportunity, if the Spanish Government agrees, to be able to talk about the great consensus of Catalan society. This diumeng, in a diary, comes out some questions that I seem to have made us all reflect: consensus around 80_percent of the Catalan society, transversal, that go above and below political parties. And they're telling us a lot of things: they're telling us that there's 80 percent of the city around some ideas, huh? And so this has gone through, it has gone to the length of Catalan society; it has gone into debate, the Catalan society, to arrive at these great consensuses, which is that we do not consider the monarchy as a own institution – this I think is quite obvious–; two, we do not accept a repression such as the one that the democratic policies are patenting at this time, in the 21st century, 2018; three, exercise the right to self-determination through a referendum agreed and granted; four, the Catalan school and immersion, and the reboot of Article 155 – another time. That's what we talked about, that's what the Catalan society talked about. I think it has a value – it has an immense value – it has the value of great consensus. And, therefore, about this, we aspire to be able to argue with Mr. Pedro Sánchez. If Mr. Pedro Sánchez wants to argue, he wants to raise some other questions, he is in his legitimate right, of course he is. But we believe that we must represent more than ever this sense of majority of Catalan society that is reflected in these great consensuses. And we, if this finding is produced, are going with this will of dialogue effect, of honest dialogue, of dialogue up to and including on both sides. We have always called it, to this: at these moments when the Spanish right and the ultra-Spanish right are as they are, I think it is more than ever necessary that this dialog between governments be a sincere, honest and truly effective one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.98.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generality about the difficulties in governing and the economic growth]] [[317-00048/12]] the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.99.0	Good morning, President. Even the many difficulties of a 155-year runaway, chronic underfunding, repression, political prisoners, lack of State responses to political questions, and so on, as well as the ongoing attempts to discredit the work done by Catalan institutions by opposition, this government works, this government does the work in an apocalyptic scene as it often paints us. In a Catalonia where all the years were so bad and where the government was the culprit of all the evils it would be impossible the current evolution of some of the economic indicators, and in passing only a pair. A later year when the number of companies established in Catalonia has increased by 1.7_per_cent where is the supposed flight of companies? A robust growth in GDP much above, as always, the middle of the Spanish and also the euro area economy, a reduction in unemployment that should bring us this 2019 to figures per 10_per_cent, and all this in a context that we know well: repression, political prisoners, permanent attempts to alter the Sorghum majorities in this Parliament on 21 December of the past year. There's someone who's always trying to sell the idea that we want to make independence to cover up the rest of things, and when they do, they don't understand anything at all. We want to be independent because we think it's the only way we can really help the people of this country. We are independent because we are republicans and defend equality, fraternity and social justice. While in this hemisphere only a few try to fuel the conflict, while someone is making decisions, and the Department of Economics, with the vice president in the lead, has prepared assumptions that are, again, the most social of the history and that definitively reverse the effects of the crisis. That will be a guarantee of quality public services, allowing to increase teachers, movers, firefighters, that allow to put thread to the needle in the better of the conditions of Catalan firefighters, that they bet for guaranteed income, that they convert the ICF into a public bank, that they bet for redistribution and for social cohesion. An opportunity for the Catalans, who the 135 deputies we are in this chamber should not let go, on which, president, we would like to know their capteniment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.100.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.101.0	Yes; thank you very much, honourable Member. We've seen this morning when they're coming back, huh? , apocalyptic predictions about the Catalan economy. And it's good – and it's good – that we have data, that we have all the data we have, and that we have entities with trading cams like Foment, huh? , people suspected of valuing the cause of independence, we are as the Catalan economy is. For example, that the recorded atrium has been reduced by about 6.64_per_cent a year ago. And we carry 65_months resulting from the reduction of the interannual ature– 65_months resulting from it. Hundred_thousand people more affiliates now than a year ago – one hundred_thousand people more. We carry, in terms of GDP, twenty consecutive quarters of annual growth, fourteen of which per over 3_per_cent– twenty consecutive quarters! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's that it's data – it's that it's data –, huh? They're not apocalyptic predictions. This is data from what has passed, from what is going on – from what is going on – to our country. That the per capita income in Catalonia in 2017 was 119,7_per_cent respects the Spanish average, is to say, almost twenty points per envelope. This is what is happening to our country, this is the strength of our country: that we continue to lead exports, of course we do; that we continue, in terms of industrial production, far above the Spanish averages. And, if I may, I would like to devote above all two concrete points, two points that we have also disembarked, as we have unravelled the vagueness of the teachers and the demands of public servants, two themes that we have brought back many years ago, and two themes that I would also like to thank the Councillor for her involvement. First: we have disembarked – we have disembarked – the renewal of the members of the Fira de Barcelona, an important project, because the Fira de Barcelona is a vital engine for the economy not only of Barcelona but of the sentient country. And we did, and a new president was chosen, just last week. I'm the second one: the trade cams. We have given the sort of exit of the elections to the thirteen chambers of commerce, and we do so more with the will of the highest turnout, with the electronic vote, because all democratic enterprises can vote. I think that there are also two fears that we must not rejoice with the country, that we are moving forward, that we are disembarking them and that they show the solid and robust Catalan economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.102.0	The next question... [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the peaceful and non-violent action of the Members of the House of Commons]] [[317-00049/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.103.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. President Torra, this week is the 21st of December, and the 21st of December is a year of elections. Some illegitimate elections, called for the 155 monarchy, a fact without precedent in democracy that proved that they did not have enough with the tips and the pylons, that they wanted to win some elections with imprisonment and exile. And what happened on the 21st of December was that he lost the monarchy of 155, and with 70 deputies he won the Republican majority. But, despite the defeat of the monarchy and of 155, and of the tripartite of 155, not accepting the results of the 21st of December, as was seen with the different failed investments from here the Parliament of Catalonia, the repression continues, in Spain the repression continues. And we were able to see it this same week, with the inability of President Mas, Vice President Joana Ortega and Councilwoman Irene Rigau, for 9 November. We can also see that, despite the silence of certain media outlets that are totally interested, despite a defamatory campaign that is less likely than certain political parties, and despite the lack of support that we saw yesterday from Mr. Pedro Sánchez, today in Catalonia and the Spanish State, we have political prisoners in the middle of fame, for the first time in democracy, to denounce the inaction of the Constitutional Court. Today it's 19 December; it's been days of fame for the president of our parliamentary group, Mr. Jordi Sánchez, and Councillor Turull. Seventeen days ago, he was also a member of the family, of Councillor Josep Rull and of Councillor Joaquim Forn. Dinous days of shame for Spain, Dinous days of dignity for Catalonia, dignity and suffering full of firmness and determination. Thanks to this action, we have seen that they are starting to move papers to the Constitutional Court. What is his capture, Mr President, before this pacifist action as never before was seen, a non-violent protest action, without precedents in democracy, that are making Members of this Parliament, such as the President of our parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.104.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.105.0	Yes, Congressman, it seems to me the last and maximum expression of non-violence, because, from the prison, a wave of fame represents this, represents raising the view in the hardest way before an injustice. Because they're not asking for freedom, they're asking for justice. And that seems to me to be these days of family vacation, these seven days of family vacation of our companies, of all the companies, of all the companies, of all the Chambers, Members of the Chambers, I think I should reflect not only on the independence groups, but on all the days of family vacation. I also want to thank the mayors who have supported it, the professor of the University of Girona who have also supported it, all the people who are having breakfasts in solidarity with our partners in the family. I think the honest country is living it with a point of anxiety, and also admiration for the courage of the companies that are out of the picture. And the international community, certainly, honourable Member, sees it – sees it. The visit, yesterday or before yesterday, I don't remember, of activist Ai Weiwei seems to me to be a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very important visit, for which it means to give support to one of the most powerful voices in the world in defense of the civil rights of people, of support, of support to our political prisoners. But it's not just that. Here last week, in this Parliament, we read a manifesto in which more than five hundred parliamentarians from twenty-five legislative chambers gave support to President Forcadell, too, to allow a debate – to allow a debate. And it's not just that, it's the cards our political prisoners also sent to all European dignitaries. She's front and she's out at the New York Times or the Washington Post. The world doesn't understand, the world doesn't understand what's going on in Catalonia. How can it be that we have to get to this extreme of famous seats for democratically elected Members? It's them—it's them— these deep loops are our partners, and they're out of line. Therefore, as I did in the previous control session, everyone who has responsibilities and dialogue with the Government of the State, please, who acts – which acts – because they are already days old and the situation is extremely difficult. A support and a hug to our company in a place of fame. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.106.0	The last question... [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about his public call to avoid illegal and violent acts on 21 December]] [[317-00044/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.107.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, we are two days away from December 21st, and, as everyone knows, your friends in the CDR have announced illegal acts, such as roadblocks, public transport boycotts, toll boycotts, attempted assaults on public buildings. A government of the Generalitat has an obligation, first, to warn of the illegality of these acts, and, secondly, to make a public call for them not to occur. The question is very simple, Mr Torra: are you going to make a public call for the illegal acts that are already being announced by the CoRs to be avoided?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.108.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.109.0	Of course, the cry is firm, the cry is serene, the cry is civic, the cry is that we will never, ever, ever, ever, as we have not done, as we have not done, of the chariots of democracy, justice and non-violence. This town has never done it, in all those years of independence, it has never done it. There are no rape reports, no rape reports. [[Rialles.]] No more rape stories. Those rape-related inventions have taken our companies to jail. We all know what happened to the Economy Council – we all know what happened to the Economy Council – we all know that there was no violence, there was no rebellion, there was no violence. Madame Arrimadas – no, I can continue to teach many photographs, you, but I would appreciate it if we had the debate at all and not through photographs – do not continue for the path of irresponsibility. Our people are not a violent people, they are not; on the contrary. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.110.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.111.0	It has refused to warn of the illegality of these acts and to call for them not to occur. How do you rate this? [[The speaker shows two photographs to the chamber.]] Is this democracy? Is this pacifism? Is this what you are saying that the CDRs can do on Friday? You just told the CDRs that, if they do this, that it's okay, that it's okay, that you protect them, that you protect them. Do you know that you have responsibilities and obligations, Mr Torra, as President of the Generalitat? Do you know that all these things on Friday will affect thousands of people? What do you have to say to families who want to take their children to school, or who want to go to work, or who want to go to the doctor, who may have been waiting months for an appointment, or who will simply miss a flight or train to go on holiday, which is a Friday before Christmas, for God's sake? What do you tell traders, who already express their concern about what is going to happen? What do you say to the agents of Mossos, who have to face these violent ones while you justify them? What are you telling them? That nothing's gonna happen? They're asking for the Mosses, the written orders, because they don't trust you. And you protect the violent, justify them, whitewash them. It wants to make this take place in freedom of demonstration or concentration, and this does not fit in freedom of concentration. You are encouraging the violent to attack Spain, to tighten up, to the Slovenian road – which did produce a war, by the way – and to say that we must be ready for everything. What do you mean you're willing to do anything, Mr. Torra? In the face of this, the most serious thing is not what you do. If the most serious thing is not what you, who already have enough, do, is that, before this, Mr Sánchez, instead of protecting us, is begging him for a meeting [[applause]] – a meeting. And you ufano, deciding to see if you'd like to give Mr. Sanchez a meeting or not after all they're doing. Well, well, the cabbage you have with Sanchez... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.112.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.113.0	...they're going to be over and soon. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.114.0	Congresswoman, time's up. To answer, has the word again, the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.115.0	Madame Arrimadas, full of lies! You're full of lies! [[Greetings.]] You can repeat fifty thousand times the same lie..., enough lies! It's good to listen to these false speeches and lies. We have repeated it fifty times and we will always repeat it. We are always through dialogue, respect for civil rights, respect for human rights, social rights and the right to self-determination in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] We're always here and we'll never get out of here. And at these moments the civil rights of Catalonia are united to the right of self-determination and the social right is also united to human rights. That's it, that's it. And here they have brought us, and here they have brought us justly. And we, I insist, will never get out of these wagons. Look, I've been to Ómnium the past divender, it would also be good if some day before the Catalan Letters Festival [[applause]] I'd be fine, too. At OMnium we have..., the family of OMnium we have a motto: "Culture, language, country. And I asked them: "Listen, I need these very days to be democracy, justice and poverty, and here we are: democracy, justice and poverty. And with this flag of democracy, justice and pau som unbeatable, we can go all the way and with our faces very high – and with our faces very high. You are not to give us lessons of things, you, about democracy, about justice and about wood, about things! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.116.0	After the control session, let's get to the 14th point of the order of the day... [[Accumulated requests for appearance of the President of the Generality]] [[361-00003/12 and 361-00004/12]] ... that is the debate and vote on the request of the President of the Generality to appear before the plenary to inform me of the action of the Government before the deterioration of public services and the working conditions of the workers. Before starting this item on the order of the day, I would like to suggest that the debate on this request for appearance, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, will be held jointly with the debate on the request for appearance of the President of the Generality before the plenary to inform me about the action of the Government before the difficult work situation and the demands of the public servants of the Administration and the public sector of the Generality, which has been presented by the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, and which appears as the fifteenth of the order of the day. It will be a single debate with separate votes. The parliamentary groups will have a maximum of two minutes of intervention, and five, the subgroups. In the first place, it has the word to defend the request for appearance presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar. Mrs. Eva Granados has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.117.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, my parliamentary group on the same 28th of November, when the demonstrations took place on behalf of many col·lectius – I remember that we were here at the door of Parliament with the white bats – that what they were demanaging was, therefore, to be able to do their work on condition..., therefore, on the same day, my group registered a petition because the president informed about the actions of the Government to act before the deterioration of the public services and the working conditions of the workers. Clearly, today is almost a little later when this debate is being produced. When we were going to make the record of the petition we asked and we moved that the president appeared on his own initiative, because at that time all the collections were demonstrating. We want you to appear, in principle I hope this proposal will prosper, and this means that in the first Pleth of the month of generation President Torra will come here to explain, to report on the government's action before the deterioration of the public services and the working conditions of his workers. And we, to ask for the vote in the affirmative, affirmative for this petition, so we found a lot of reasons that make it necessary for President Torra to come forward. First of all, we asked him to show up and he didn't want to do it on his own. But that week, President Torra, you made a total silence. It wasn't there. I don't know where it was, but all the congregations were protesting, there were concrete petitions, we had public servants at the limit, the professionals mobilized and the government disappeared. And, therefore, the first Ple of the month of generation will have the possibility, of that silence, to put words to it. It will also be a good time – and this is another reason – to correct, therefore, what seems to be not the priority of the Government of the Generality. You, we have the feeling that public services are lacking, and this is made manifest in your statements. In the end, President Torra, in an interview in a public media room, claimed that self-determination is the issue and that it is not possible to entertain other issues that are minor. Now that we're talking about the meeting with the president of Spain, so we also see what there is, for what he does to priorities between one another. And so, also, some spokesman for groups that support the government also says that we distract ourselves in things that are not essential, that if eighty-five days, that if eighty-two to the waiting lists. Well, then, your appearance to the genera will also be an opportunity to correct and prioritize this issue. Also the possibility, when I come to compare, to compromise 'before inaction, because here in Parliament we have voted many things. Although my group and other parliamentary groups have made interventions, inquiries and motions about different collections of public servants, we have voted many things, but at these times, the fact is that Catalonia can be expected at all stages of its life, due to the weakening of public services. It can be: waiting for a school square, with non-investments in education with barracks, for scholarships, waiting lists of sanitation, waiting lists of dependence... It is clear that we have a deterioration in public services and that many of the plans of unemployment that we voted for in this chamber have not stood in the way, and therefore we have voted for plans of unemployment of lists of hope, of primary care, of educational investments, of dependence, of the Servant of Occupation, of childhood, of movements, of firefighters, of universities. All this has been said here in Parliament, it has been voted, but perhaps, in the appearance of President Torra, you can explain to us that everything that has been voted also lasts the year you see. Also, a reason to vote for this appearance is to make manifest, and that the Government of the Generality recognizes it, that, beyond the crisis and the flood of entrances that there was, that it passed cities and orbs to all the administrations of Catalonia, to Catalonia we had more ideological details. The government of María Dolores de Cospedal and the government of Artur but they are the two autonomous governments that the most detailed have done and the most ideological ones have done. We were the first to apply flaps, and the last to reverse them. Now the intentions of Councillor Bargalló to reverse the zero-euros that we have said so many times in schools in Bressol is the evidence that the concerted sanitation, private sanitation, the concerted school has been better during the retail eras, and public sanitation, public education has not been better. Why? Because in Catalonia, apart from the details that were played by the gateway, we have also had ideological details, and it will also be a good time to make manifest, so there have been these ideological details. Also why explain to us what they will do if they have 2,200_millions that they can come to go against these waiting lists, to revert details to the public office, which the Government of the Generality intends to do with this opportunity that it has with the General Presuppositions of the State. Also the month of generation will be an opportunity because it has not felt complaining of lack of resources and blocking the state assumptions that would improve the financial economic situation of our Generality and, as a result, the conditions of public workers and also public servants. And also, when the generation comes, if you see, it will also be an opportunity to correct what we consider to be a lack of political will, because the same week that all the public workers' collections were showing, you announced the opening of 5 external offices, which is not that it seems to us badly, but perhaps the issue of priorities and the lack of political will will have to be manifested. And if this is an example of a short term, we also have to remember – now I was talking to my partner Alicia who was carrying these issues –, from Joana Ortega, who had brought public service and public administration issues that she announced things that were never done, that they were dealing with the reform of public administration, the independent government has put on the table the type of reform of public administration, neither of public management, nor absolutely nothing. Therefore, not only at the short-term level, but also at the level of public administration reform, which we have not yet fully understood. Another reason to come and compare Mr. Torra to the principles of generation? So to try to reduce the great contrast that exists between the Government of the State in public office and the Government of the Generality. More or less you were at the same time, the government of Pedro Sánchez and the government of Torra-Aragonès, and making a few rests from which Minister Batet has drawn, so we see: the transfer of economic recovery to the public occupation, with more than 30,000 seats that will be called to the State; the reactivation after new years of the Sectoral Conference of Public Administration, which I must say to Mr Puignero, that we rejoice in having participated in this sectoral conference; up to six agreements with union organizations; the retribution regime during the temporary incapacity; the public offer; the establishment of plants; the place of mobilization; the extension of parental leave; the prohibition of discrimination; the inter-ministerial mobility; Digital administration, a royal decree on universal web accessibility. In a few months we will also have the citizen folder, which will be a reality, with a single identification to go for all administrations. All this is possible in the time they carry of government. Minister Batet is doing it, not the government of Torra-Aragonès. Tomorrow, there will be a royal pay-back decree in Barcelona that will affect more than two million_i_mig public workers, a 2.25_% linear plus a 0.25 to negotiate each administration with the unions, and a 0.25 plus if GDP exceeds 2.5_% in the second quarter of 2019, and it has also been granted that 100_% of hours can be accumulated by a worker... in order to be able to reconcile. All this can be done with public employees, all this can improve public administration, all this is done by the Government of Spain, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, and not by the Government of Torra-Aragones. Therefore, it will be another opportunity because in this appearance they can come and explain to us what plans they have, because Mr. Puignero sees that he is making skirmishes; so maybe they will come and explain it to us because we, as opposed, do not see it, and I assure him that the unions, neither. What did they do? Well, then, we know the detail of what they signed up for on the subject of foreign payments. We have also said from here, reaching an agreement only after the call of a general wave, so it is that the dialog fails and finally triumphs, but it is obvious that it can be done more for public servants and public workers. There are still rights pending to recover: pension plans, reduction of inter-housing taxes, DPOs, social action foundations, child rights, primary and secondary education, recovery of working days, specific management of vocational training... There are still many requests and petitions that are essential to our public administration and that you, in the months you carry, hope that 2019 will be resumed, but we believe that President Torra's appearance will also be a good opportunity to say that despite the cuts, as well as the lack of political will on the part of the government, our public administration and our public services are well valued for citizenship, and in this we must give thanks to the public servants who are at the head. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.118.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. Next, to defend his request, he has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.119.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, President of the Generality. You were talking to us today about large consensuses, consensuses based perhaps on distorted data. I am also going to talk to you about a great consensus, and it is a consensus that I am sure all the workers in the public sector and most opposition parties share, to agree that their management, as far as public service is concerned, has been harmful. You and your government have managed to get firefighters, mossos d'ésquadra, doctors, healthcare professionals, education professionals to show up on the street last month to claim their rights to that management that, as we say, has left much to be desired. Everyone has come out to protest with just demands, with a will for social justice, with a will for service, and all the proposals had a common denominator: to ask his government to reverse the cuts, to fight against precariousness and to give good service to the citizens of Catalonia. Their achievements to date have been, for example, to place the rate of temporality in administration at about 30_%, when we all know that it is advisable to be at levels of 8_%. You have cut wages to public workers, and I know you will tell us that you have an agreement on this, but knowing your background, we already told you the other day, until the last euro is on the last worker's account, we will not trust us and we will ensure that you return this right. You also have not called places of opposition for years, and those who announced them have not called them either. And as you can imagine, this directly affects the templates. We have the examples of the protests that are still in place, of the Mossos d'ésquadra and of the firemen, who, by the way, have announced that they may be fighting against you because you do not respond to your demands. While you were watering TV3 you have forgotten the basic services. And that's not what I'm saying, that's what a firefighter said when he was attending the media. Its cuts have caused a serious deterioration in working conditions and the education system is underfunded. Nor do I say this, as the education unions say in their statement calling for a strike. Lack of investment is a basic pillar of a democratic country such as security. We have a deficit of 1,800 at a time of level 4 terrorist alert over 5. This is not what I said, it was said yesterday in a statement also by the Mossos d'Esquadra. We could continue to talk about all the demands of the public sector, but I think you know them well enough. We are only going to ask you one thing today: that you come here to appear. It seems normal, but come on, from your background, you don't do it very often. Health, education, security, public service are the basic pillars of the welfare of our society and do not deserve you to continue to none of them. I was thinking one day in the Committee on Digital Policy and Public Service, Mr Torra, that what is happening in Catalonia is not normal from the point of view that trade unions have normally organized historically, internationally, to obtain rights, and when they obtained rights they struggled to obtain new rights, when they had those consolidated. In Catalonia, the workers' movement, the unions must mobilize against you to get rights that you already had and that you have taken away from you. I believe that a good political leader before simply the strike announcement should have reacted and should have met in time and form, not waiting for them to be on the street. Even so, when they were already on the street, I think you should have gone out, you should have met the protesters and made a face, but you didn't, and we think you should have come on your own initiative and not because two opposition groups are asking for it. We want you to appear, to explain to us what your plan of action is, if any, because we believe that you only have a plan to declare independence and to make another referendum, because you did not want to explain anything at all. We consider that you do, whenever there are problems, the ostrich tactic, which my father told me: hide your head until danger passes. Well, I think you didn't show up because honestly, I don't think you're a good political leader. Maybe he's a good activist, but he's not a good political leader, and his government doesn't rule, he does activism. Look, you were talking before the violence, and you were blaming us, because we were recriminating you, but to me it seems embarrassing that you who call a strike by procedural means, who announces it, who manifests himself peacefully, do not pay any attention to it, while when the CoR calls a strike you are there. To those who cut roads, to those who prevent us from going to the doctor, to take the children to school, go there and tell him: "Apreteu, compañies, ja feu be d'apretar, while others tell them that their labor demands, you have not told him, has told him the spokesman of your government, are crumbs. I believe that crumbs are what is left to your process, and if you have dignity you should come and appear and explain to us what your opinion is on all matters of public service. You invited us to go to the Diàleg Table, we believe that to establish dialogue we already have this Parliament, which you, by the way, do not like to come. You've only appeared once, come to appear. He only showed up on a voluntary basis once. Do you know when and for what? To be Mr. Otegi's defense attorney. It's the only thing you've asked voluntarily to attend. Because I believe that if you are brave enough to say in a press conference that the rights of public workers are crumbs you must come here, before the opposition groups, and expose yourself to the fact that we can replicate it. If you are brave enough to allow workers' rights to be violated, if there are links in the councils, if political acts are called from the megaphony, when we ask you to appear for this reason in the committees, you should be brave, come and appear. Above all, if you are brave at writing racist articles, what you should do too is, when we ask you to come here and discuss these articles with us, because one thing is to write them at home and the other is to come here to this Parliament and account for it. Above all, if you are brave to go to Slovenia and say that you have chosen the Balkan way to achieve independence from Catalonia, you should also be brave and come here to appear. Although I do not blame you there, because there also the friends of En Comú Puem, who with their vote hindered you from coming to attend that day, also gave you a hand. I believe that the Catalans need a president who faces and does not turn his back on them, and that is why we ask the groups in this Chamber to vote in favour of this request. I told you the other day, the hot autumn that you were projecting has come a little different, I think, from what you thought. You were expecting mobilizations in your favor and you've had them against you. We are, today is December 19th, autumn is over, and in two days, on December 21st, winter will begin. We hope that we do not have a winter set on fire by you with your policies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.120.0	Then, to fix his position, he has the first word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.121.0	Good morning. Catalonia is in a real situation of social emergence, of poor, social exclusion, job insecurity, which is the least friendly face of our country, but which affects a good part of our citizenship, as a result of an economic crisis but, obviously, also of fiscal and economic policies and of neoliberal management, of the details that have caused an important fracture in our country, an important social fracture. Because the real fracture we have in Catalonia is that of the consequences of carrying those elements of social cohesion, the fracture – yesterday we also say it in the specific plethora of childhood – that generates social inequality, class, growing, that we have to our society. This breakdown of the social contract in Catalonia has taken various forms. Among other things, that of the seven pods of shame, which we say we are; seven social ambits and problems, in which Catalonia is the leader in these pods. We are leaders in denunciations; we are leaders in university taxes per price; we are leaders in loss of wages and purchasing capacity; we are leaders in educational investment flow, low, respect of other communities; we are leaders in low health investment; we are leaders in youth and waiting lists in dependence. You can go back to who there is, basically – and that's what concerns us most – stories of personal patience, pain, frustration, anger, people who suffer from it, but also of the educational, medical, social, labor, public administration professionals, who are the ones who are trying to sustain with their efforts these public services that don't give more than themselves and that don't give an answer to this citizenry that is patenting. This government, which we do not know if it governs, which we do not know where it governs and which only generates the feeling that it is not interested, neither, because of the consequences of its government, has also made the sense that it ignored the demands of these professionals, of these workers and workers of our public services and of the Administration of the Generality, who demanded to act urgently, to act already on a reality that cannot wait any longer. This is what has led the professionals of many public servants of our country to make days of mobilization as they had not seen in many years, during this late heat. A late heat that has materialized with a wave of professionals of primary care, of doctors, but not only of doctors, with protests by firemen and squad movements, of the educational community, of the staff of the Administration of the Generality. We also have a criminal case against the president and vice president on the part of the bombers, to put the population in danger with the parking lot for lack of personnel and resources. Demonstrations, tanks, mobilizations, calls for vacancies, complaints..., all claiming the same: the rescue of the Catalan public services and a recovery of the lost working conditions during these years of retailing. All these events have had a wide follow-up and a lot of support in their sectors, and a lot of support in society. Therefore, in the users of these public services who see as the professionals who are doing this service, they are supporting this service, they have every reason to go out on the street to claim these requests. Our public workers: doctors, teachers, firefighters, administrative staff, police, are fed up with chips on the board. Let's get this over with. We have an opportunity to get rid of this waste, these retail policies, these policies of increasing our public services and working conditions. Our space has defended and continues to defend that, what we need is a great pact that puts us in agreement with different political actors in Catalonia and the State. Because we need assumptions, we need to be able to approve them, we need assumptions, not of any kind, but assumptions that allow us to put an end to these seven possibilities of shame. And to make this possible, some general assumptions of the State that provide more resources to Catalonia are being brought to us. 2,200_million euros more, I think they can help make it possible, are sure that they can make possible a better horizon of social justice for Catalonia. And a tax reform in Catalonia, to provide a course of fiscal justice where no one is less than anyone else, must also make it possible to achieve a new social stage in our country and some assumptions that wander in this line. Resources, resources to make possible real social assumptions in Catalonia, for the coming year. A turn, which is what the professionals and the citizenry are asking of us in all these mobilizations on the street. And what was the proposal, before this situation on the part of the government? This one we gave them was ours, that of the Commons and We can. Who's the one with the government? So, while the representatives of the public services that take care of us all were claiming to reverse the details and claim social reversion because it is no further damage to the public services, the president was drowning. Publicly, he was appalled, his government was negotiating, negotiating measures, measures that have been dashed to put up with a smile. Measures that only face the emergence of the moment, but insufficient to change the reality of the foundations. And now, they're going back to reporting on some of the more social assumptions in the story at 2. We have heard it several times, today, this account of the most social assumptions of history, version 2, speaking of the assumptions of 2019, that have not been presented and that, at the moment, they do not give a single clue that they can really have credibility, that they have sufficient resources to reverse this situation, because they do not propose a tax reform in Catalonia, nor do they suggest that the assumptions of the State to have more resources in Catalonia, would be a mistake again. Mr. Torra, the most social assumptions of history, among comets, of the year 2017, extended in 2018, have had a social contest in the street, which has been the warmest of history for many years. That was a big mistake, I don't repeat the same mistake again. Human error is, you can go on repeating, but listen, the credit for us, for the professionals of public services and for the users of public services. More mistakes in this sense, on the part of the Government of the Generality, have been exhausted. Catalonia can no longer wait forever to be governed, we need a government that governments, that fixed priorities of truth, that set a clear course, that wants to shape everything that is being claimed on the street, on assumptions that are really social. It is time, Mr. Torra, for you and your government to move forward and present real assumptions to the extent of the needs of the people and of the hope of these mobilizations, not just to put up with lines to stop the bleeding. It is for this reason that we believe that the president will appear. To resolve the doubts that we have expressed and why we are being told what really is his plan of action to deal with this situation of deterioration of our public services, of the work situations of the workers and workers of these services and of the claims of this late warmness. We support, therefore, these two petitions by Mr. Torra, in this sense. We think we need the government to make it clear what it's worth, whether it's the solution or the problem. And choosing also involves coming to Parliament to compare and to explain to us what this decision has been, what is the course of his government. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.122.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Vidal Aragonese deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.123.0	Good morning, all of you. To advance the sentiment of our vote, that our vote will be affirmed in relation to the two requests for appearance that are demanded in the person of the President of the Generality of Catalonia. Say, because we think, as it cannot be otherwise, that the President of the Generality has to come to this Parliament to explain many things. Many things happen, first of all, to try to justify, in a way, how did this Government achieve that, less than a fortnight ago, there were two calls for a general vacancy for the public sector; a second left without effect with the mediation of the vacancy, with agreements; but also – and we should not forget – a whole series of partial calls, from subsectors of the public sector. Teaching, sanitation, college. It seemed to us that yesterday, the government was giving an answer to the fact that this had already been arranged in the measure that it had reached agreement on two of these vague mediations. We want to convey to him that one thing is that it is possible to reach agreement with commuting, with those who convoke and reduce a part of the labour dispute; and another thing, quite different, is that, with this, on the one hand, or all the labour problems of the public sector, or the specific problems of the public sector, on the other hand. And they're two different things, and if we don't read in this sense, we wouldn't really be reading what's going on in the Catalan Public Administration. And we ask the President of the Government of Catalonia to make no appearance only, but to come to the audience to make proposals. Proposals that give answers, answers to what? Non-university education. So, look, non-university education, we are being asked to return to twenty-five hours; we are being asked to replace temporary disability situations in all subjects from day one; we are being asked for more staff. If we look at what they ask of us, they do not only have an affect of work character, they also have – and above all – an affect of social character, to strengthen the service. Second call, or large call from a subsector to university: Can we bear that in this country, good part of professors and university professors, sign semi-annual and annual contracts and is trobin, any other year, without knowing whether they have continued to university? Can we bear that a good part of these professors and professors – and I am referring to false associates and associates – who take up the teaching of what is the university's nude, are paying fifty-eight-cents? That's not bearable. We have to donate another model to the country. He's at the toilet? They say to health care: they want to work in better conditions, that it is possible to have time to make visits in conditions; they want to have work status, which means that a whole series of types of contract are left in the band, and set up for stable contract; they want more workers and more workers, another assumption in which, when asked is not exactly or only as an answer for their working conditions, but mainly, to strengthen public servants, too. And they tell them, day and day too, the workers and the workers of the DGAIA, with high levels of temporality and with high levels of rotation provoked, because the lack of companies and companies to donate services causes the good part of the workers and the workers of this service to flee. Or the firefighters and firefighters in our country, who are telling them, who are holding fire parks, who are telling them to have materials that are expired, who are telling them to have insufficient staffing. Miri, president, government, could continue with a whole series of subsectors, one after another: you serve prisons, we could continue with juvenile justice, could continue, to a good extent, for that is, in the most classical sense, the Generality of Catalonia. I don't have time. It could restate the fifteen measures which, since 2010, have been applied in detail to the public sector, fifteen of which only and exclusively four have been recovered in terms of the rights of workers and workers in the public sector. So what we're asking is that I not only come to compare the president, in this room, but I come with answers. Yesterday – and we respect them all – we were surprised that, when this group made a battery of social proposals, from the Group of Government not to vote in favour. Absolutely not. Therefore, we have to come to a conclusion, perhaps very simple, that you do not care about them, from a social point of view, what can pass, also, to the Catalan Public Administration. But if you don't care about them from a social point of view, you worry about them from a national point of view. It will not be possible to build a republic, or just consider a republic, if we do not have a strengthened public sector. And, to have a strong public sector, what we need are public sector workers with a lot of rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.124.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.125.0	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I have to say, I don't think this is a good week for you, it's not the best weeks he's had. Or maybe he'll finish a little better, because today we know that finally, the president of the central government, Mr. Sánchez, accepts the meetings on his terms. But it seems to me, therefore, that it will not be a good week, because at the length of the plenary that we have celebrated, that we are celebrating during these days, it has had to face two debates that you do not like; you and your Government, which are real problems that Catalans have. We haven't been here talking about the prisoners, the self-determination, the referendum, we've been talking about real problems. Yesterday, the children's problems and today we are talking about the concrete part on the part of the workers, in this case, of the public workers of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Miri, let's try to illustrate, with an example that is real and that is recent, what is the situation, in general terms, of public office in Catalonia. Yesterday in the Plenary of Badalona – yesterday it celebrated a ple in the Assembly of Badalona – a bomber intervened and said that in the park of the city of Badalona, which gives service to about 300,000 inhabitants, approximately, Badalona, Santa Coloma, around the time, there have only been eight bombers, normally working. And it seems to me that this given, this example, which is from yesterday evening, is quite illustrative of which level is found some public servants of the Generality. A few days ago, the following week, you assumed here, in this room, in this chamber, that you had reached an agreement with the public workers, an agreement which you assumed and which, at the time of truth, therefore, smoke to conceal the reality lasted very little. Because there was always, there was, the small letter. In this case, the small letter was that it was conditional on the approval of assumptions that we probably believed would not be thrown forward. But the reality is that the public workers of Catalonia have seen the worst of the state. We have seen how the workers of other autonomous communities, of the assemblies, have been able to recover their economic rights, which they suffered during the economic crisis of the years 2012, 2013, 2014, and the only ones who are still patenting these consequences, which they have not been able to return to their initial rights, are the workers of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia. And this, therefore, to which you are carrying..., must add that, beyond this concrete aspect, the demands on some better conditions in which some sectors are found, such as the bombers, such as the squadron movements, the social workers or the meths, I believe that they pose in evidence to what extent the Government of the Generalitat is not that only it has forgotten the real Catalonia, it is not that only it has made that part of Catalans invisible that we are not independent, but, to all intents and purposes, Mr. Torra, have turned into invisible to the very workers of the Generalitat of Catalonia. And today, these thousands of people are not patenting the consequences. That's why we think that this appearance of you seems to us to be profitable, and not just profitable, but probably also very necessary, because it explains to the whole of Catalan society, because it explains to the chamber, but above all, to the whole of Catalan society what it is they think they are doing, that they can explain to the most involved, to the most affected, the public workers of Catalonia, which is their roadway to recover rights and a work situation that, unfortunately, has put them to the bottom of the conditions of the group of public workers of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.126.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.127.0	Okay. Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, President of the Generality, deputies, deputies, workers and workers of the Parliament, let's be here again, and let's be here again talking about public office, and let's be here again talking about public services, which for me is always great news, because I think it's been many months now that in different spaces of this chamber we are dealing with this issue. And I mean that we are concerned, that all parliamentary groups are concerned about the situation of public services and also the working environment of public officials. Today, in this case, it is to request the appearance of the very honorable President of the Generality. And we, too, are moving forward, giving support to the two petitions. We will support it, because, in fact, as they have already been able to prove in the different parliamentary committees, and as they have already been able to prove during these months of our parliamentary term, we have always been very in favour of the government explaining itself, of the government explaining itself in this chamber; we have always been very in favour of the government being able to convey here to Parliament who are its proposals and who will be its action. And that, therefore, we, of our own kind, can also tax. Because, I let'remember that, like the legislative chamber, here taxes the opposition but we also have to tax those groups that we support this government, because it also forms part of our work, and it does so in all its transversality. That's why we support you coming in. We'll support it because we also understand that it's logical. The opposition groups, seeing what was said by the government's horrible week, it is normal that this attendance is still pending. I, who twelve years ago I became governor at the opposition of my assembly, Sant Andreu de la Barca, understand them perfectly – I understand them perfectly. But it's that, like the government group, we also fully understand that the president wants to come here and explain, explain what action is, who are the proposals, what he predicted. And much more so at the beginning of a year, a complicated and complex year as 2019 will be. And I can do it calmly, calmly, and encourage the debate. It seems to us that it is relevant, it seems to us that it is important that we mark, within the framework of the political agenda, what the government action will be for the next year. But it's not just that – it's not just that. We must also remember that the first fortnight of the month of generation there must be a meeting of the General Bureau of the Civil Service, a meeting that we are convinced that it will be, and a meeting where we will put on the table other rights that during the previous years have gone out in detail and that are now going to recover. And this is another of the important debates that we have and that we have to face during the upcoming 2019. So, in this appearance, I'm sure that some references can also be respected. But not just that. Reference has been made to wave calls and mobilizations, wave calls and mobilizations where the government has not been held up, but has intervened – it has intervened – and reached agreements. That's what I said the previous week, when we did the plenary and we also had the opportunity to talk about public office, from this window. The previous week I said it's true that it's good to react when there's a mobilization and it's good that Government, from the circles of the media, like congratulating the Department of Work, arrived at the agreements. But it is also true that from the government, and we, as a group that supports this government, also know that the negotiating environment practically has to be permanent and that, therefore, it is always better – it is always better – to prevent people from going out in the street. Social struggle has these things, and we're at a time of social struggle. And we, together with parliamentary groups, are fully aware, and the Government is also fully aware, that we must respond to the demands that encourage this social struggle. But we have many requests, and, therefore, we also need to be conscious. And he appeals to the assumptions, and he wonders about assumptions that seem to save all our problems; but the general assumptions of the State are not the panacea of nothing, they are not the great solution of the problems that we have in the country: the general assumptions of the State are simply other assumptions. And the generality's assumptions are what we really need to worry about, and much more in this room. In this room, we have to worry about these assumptions. We need to be concerned that there are presuppositional parties that respond to the demands of the social struggle, and we need to be concerned that these presuppositional parties have the political support necessary to be able to apply them. That's what we need to worry about in these rooms. And let us leave the other chambers, in this case, that of the Congress of Deputies, which debate, which work on the basis of the assumptions to be approved in those chambers. But to us who worry about the first person we have to approve in this chamber: the assumptions of the Generality. And that's why the generation will also be a good time, because the generation will surely be in the most intense debate of the presuppositional negotiation. Therefore, also, President Torra, the encouragement that I can also convey, from this Faristol, in this appearance the presuppositionary character of the action of the Government of our country – of our country – and of our Government, which is the Generality of Catalonia. But also in this dynamic that we carry, it means that when the government action has manifested itself in the negotiation and the dialogue, reaching agreement with the representatives of the workers and the workers, whether it is from the health field or from the general field of public service, they have also made presupposed commitments: 100_million euros in the field of primary care, contract of 201 meters to reduce the work overload, plus 22 to cover downs; in the field of teachers there have already been announcements of successive calls for objections of 5,100 places, but it is that already, enguany, there has been an increase of 690 places, in the field of education. And what about the field of public service? Before it was stated here that the proper increments had not been made. Okay. I remember that there is a decree, the decree law that was approved precisely in this chamber – Decree Law 5/2018, of October 16 – where the increments of '1,5, plus 0.25, plus 0.2_per_cent, plus the cent_per_cent of IT, temporary incapacitities are recognized. And that's what we approved. And that's what we did here. And then the agreement reached in the mediation with the vagaries committee respects the general vacancy and ended up being deconvoked by the unions, UGT, Workers' Commissions and the USOC. That agreement is also there. And, certainly, in this agreement, because it's a logical reference, because if there's no money, it can't pay, and the money we'll need in the presuppositional sphere, if there's no presupposition, it's obvious that we'll have a problem with applying this agreement, it's obvious, it doesn't have to be a setciencias or a mathematician, like Narcis Clara, an excellent mathematical companion, but it just has to have a minimum of common sense; sometimes the least common sense, precisely, in those parties that most claim this common sense. And in this place that's reading the agreement. The agreement clearly states that "the premise will mark the application of this agreement, but, at the same time, it will not be a condition for finding new formulas, new ways of redefining to make this return of payments. And that's okay, too. Not all trusts in the presupposition – not all trusts in the presupposition. But we do have to be fully aware that without any presupposition we will have a very hard problem – very hard. And, therefore, we have to ask ourselves, and that is why we support the request for appearance, because it is very good that President Torra, not only in the control sessions but also in the different areas where he is already actively involved, so I can also talk about our public services, and also about our public workers and workers. Some public services that concern us, and not only for the national sphere, worry about the social sphere, because there is no independence that is worth if it is not accompanied by social justice. We have always defended this, and we will continue to defend it, because if we want the republic, precisely, it is for social justice, not for any flag, because flags do not get carried away. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.128.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, and on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.129.0	Okay. Good morning, President. Councillors, Members, Members, Today is the New Day of the Fame of the President of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and Councillor Jordi Turull, ten days away, fifty-seven days away. You have Councillor Quim Forn and Josep Rull, also Councillor, seven days of family vacation, forty-eight beds they haven't made. They do not make room for fame to become martyrs or heroes, but they do so to denounce this injustice of the Constitutional Court, this arbitrary court and which does not comply with its own rules, because it has not resolved in thirty days, as established the term of the same law. Therefore, I ask you, today that we are on the new day of fame, and on the seventh day, when the resolutions of the international courts arrive, that they will arrive, if you have shame..., and you will be able to look at the face of all those who have not positioned themselves. Because, if they do, I think it's no longer a question of independence, but of respect for human rights and [[Funnel veils]] ... yes, respect human rights [[applause]] – respect human rights. Miri, I appreciate the request for a hearing; we will also vote in favour of it, as we voted for each of the requests for a hearing in the committees, of the councillor, of the secretary of public administration, because I understand that these submissions allow us to talk about the human factor in public administration. And I agree with what Mrs Granados said: each of the people who are part of the public administration, each of the public servants, are those people who also, as I said..., and I liked what I said, because to the questions of user satisfaction, we have them here, so they are positive; neither can we lie. Therefore, I think it is good to talk, and therefore we will vote in favour of this appearance. But I also believe that from a critical point of view, it is true that there is always room for improvement, and from this margin of improvement and from responsibility, so we will deal with it. The truth is that when you made these requests... it was hard to finish when there was still a general gap, huh? When these waves were summoned, I suppose, because they thought, therefore, that an agreement would not be reached on the part of the Government, on the part of the task for the councillor of Puignero, President Torra, the Vice-President... and, therefore, I suppose they doubted the actual negotiating capacity. The truth is that, of course, when there were demonstrations you said: "No, there were demonstrations. Yes, there have been demonstrations and how there have been demonstrations what we have done is come to an agreement. There are sometimes demonstrations that are more than seven years old and there is still no political proposal on the table. Therefore, we will continue to work. [[applause]] I'll talk to you. Also, when Mr. Albiol was speaking, right? I was talking about the major retails... if you want, remember, these major retails, how they started, with the government Zapatero. But, of course, I also remember Mr. De Alfonso, with Fernández Díaz, says: "We have destroyed public health for them. Therefore, you are not free of any criticism to stand before this Faristol. The truth is that in these measures that we have had to finish, that the retails will be reversed with the workers, the workers..., that too often worries me, doesn't it? When they say to us, "You are not in the real world. We have companies that are teachers, companies that are primary care workers, companies that are firefighters, companies that are university teachers; we have also suffered many situations. Therefore, we also know of many of these problems and have the ability to empathize, listen and try to transmit to the government how to reach these agreements. The truth is, ever since the details were produced, Mrs Granados also gave me the pension plans we have to look at, right? , to recover part of the function; this is also the question that is in the Law of assumptions of the State. In pension plans, the generality doesn't have powers, okay? So, too, in this sense, so let's say they've come back a lot, a lot of agreements. You refer to Minister Batet's six accords, Mrs. Granados; but to the council of the Puignero we carry eight agreements that we have already reached with the unions. Therefore, we will continue to work, and it is a good thing that we agree with the unions that affect all public workers, both from the Government of the Generality, in the mark of their competitions, as in the mark of the competitions of Minister Batet. It is absolutely positive, because anything that affects and improves the conditions of the workers must absolutely congratulate us all. I would say to you in these trade union agreements, so..., we did – what has come from the consulting department – the issue of the selection of interested staff, the increase in the number of days of good insurance, the negotiation of salary supplements, the increase in salaries... There was also a discussion here of an agreement to which it arrived, ending the healthcare gap, of the 250 new professionals in family matters, family medicine; as the generation will have us pediatricians; gynaecologists and odontologists on June 2019... Therefore, all of these agreements are in the different areas of public services that must help us to continue to improve. We, therefore, are working and the government rules. If it's true, they'll have to stop cheating on the lonely one, too. Why? Because we, in the framework of our competitions, will do what we can, but, effectively, we want the keys to the box and what we would like is to have a Catalan republic so that we can certainly increase all of these parties presumably. But, as the situation is what we are responsible for, we will continue to work in this sense. There's a presupposition, too, isn't there? , which increases social policies, therefore, in 103_million euros more in education, 200_million more in social matters, 523 more in health matters; which represents more or less, for which we may have known, a 6.8 more in social matters. I think this is a good thing, and so this appearance, that we will vote for, from the generation, I think it will give more light and it can put more, right? , about the table and getting to know the citizenry which is the political action of this government that focuses its action on people. The truth is that when you make reference to people, so yes, in the matter of doctors there is a lot of way to go, and we know it because, as we have said, we are part of society and have companies that are giving their face in any CAP. Now, what we can't do is destroy, right? the health system, because, as we say, here are some questions, for example, about the satisfaction of the users who allow us to recognize this task, this vocation and this effort that all public workers have made, therefore, during all these years. I therefore believe that this request to appear, which, as I have said, we will vote in favour, will allow us to put on the table this government action that is taking place in the end, that I know that many of you are certainly interested in them, right? I'm sure that in the next few days, as Councillor Puignero compromised, there'll be more information about places, won't there? , which must be called in the matter of public supply of employment, so as to reduce, therefore, the temporality, as the Court of Justice of the European Union notes, which do have effects, as in others. And so, in this sense, I believe that in the next few days, in the next few weeks, everything will be completed by the Councillor Puignero and the Secretary of Public Service who explained to us the appearances on the committee's agenda. And all this, therefore, because we have the firmness that public servants must be public servants of quality. The republic for us is not a fief, but an instrument to be able to provide better services, these services that the law establishes, these services to which we are obliged, as people who are part of the citizenry, so they need to go to the doctor, they need an education, to ensure their equal opportunities to our society. Therefore, we place our vote in favour of this appearance; we recognize the negotiating task due to the end when there was a demonstration, these eight agreements reached in the matter of public office, and I am sure that it will be possible to continue to arrive at much more agreements, because, as we have said since the beginning, there is the will to negotiate, there is the will of the pact and, above all, there is the will to continue to advance in a government that guarantees the most basic public rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.130.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] As I said before the beginning of the debate, we shall vote separately on the two requests for appearance. In the first place we will vote for the request for appearance submitted for the Socialist and Uniti Parliamentary Group to advance and later vote for the other request for appearance, the one submitted for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Long break.]] Let's get to the vote. We shall vote, as we have said, first of all on the request for the parliamentary Socialists and Units Group to be represented. The vote begins. This request was approved unanimously: 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now proceed to vote on the second request for a hearing, which was submitted for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. This request was also approved unanimously, i.e. 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Debate on the end of democracy started on 6 and 7 September 2017]] [[255-00006/12]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day. It's the debate about the coup to democracy started on September 6 and 7, 2017. In accordance with Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure, this debate shall be governed by the provisions of Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokespersons. As this debate is taking place at the initiative of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we will begin with the intervention of a representative of this group, in order to present the motion for his request, for a maximum of thirty minutes. In the first place, therefore, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the lady Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.131.0	Thank you, Mr. President. More than a year ago the coup began, the coup against democracy that these gentlemen and those who were before these gentlemen gave in this very Parliament began. This was a scene of the coup against democracy that took place more than a year ago. And today we are here to talk about what happened, but above all also about what continues to happen today in Catalonia. And it should have been held before, it is true; our intention was to hold the, this session, during the month of September, to make a year of the coup to democracy. But one of the many barbarities that these gentlemen have been doing in these months has been to stop parliamentary activity and, in particular, to close the plenary session of this Parliament, because you were fighting to see how the fugitives of justice or the MPs who are in prison were suspended or not. But today we are here, because we are not going to forget what happened a year ago, we are not going to forget the infamy. We cannot forget the anguish of many Catalans watching television without knowing what these gentlemen, the gentlemen of the Government, the deputies of the independence parties were going to do. You, in those fateful days, with seventy-two deputies, representing in votes less than half of the Catalans, were charged with the Statute of autonomy and the Spanish Constitution of a pen, with seventy-two seats, representing less than 50 per cent of Catalan society, with seventy-two deputies. In order to move a coma of the Statute of autonomy, ninety are required. Well, these gentlemen, with seventy-two, huh? – ole –, they changed..., did not« change: the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia and the Spanish Constitution were brushed, and all the rights that are contained in these regulations for Catalan society. You have adopted a rule here for your illegal referendum. Let us remember: illegal referendum, where buildings and public resources were used; where the personal data of all Catalans, our IDs, our addresses were used. Who was in the hands of that census? From the CUP? We don't know, it's being investigated; but that's what you did. They put the officials against the sword and the wall. You knew perfectly well which school principal participated and gave the keys and which school principal did not, Mr. Counsellor. A map could be made, perfectly, of those who collaborated with the illegal referendum or – poor of them – of those who were signified before the department because they did not want to give the keys to the school. That's what you guys did a year ago. An infamy. Ah, and it was also the time this very funny, if not otherwise, when a super-impartial electoral union was selected. So impartial, so impartial, that one of the members turns out to be on the Bureau of Parliament, one of those who took part in this nightly, light-heartedly. You guys committed an infamy a year ago. Worst of all, the Transitional Act. That wish, how would you want to make that imaginary republic? They left it in writing, wrote it, brought it in, voted it out. What were you saying in that desire for how you want to do that imaginary republic for which you work so hard? They would elect the judges of the Supreme Court. Puigdemont could choose the judges' finger and they didn't have to be judges, they could be law graduates, friends of theirs. What republic were you going to have, huh? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Whoa! Beautiful! Officials. Eye, because this is very serious. You, in your law, said that officials had to pass, that they had to assume this law and move to a body of a new independent state, but that they did not guarantee to all officials who could stay; that is, that they would open the door to which officials they wished to stay or not. And the rest, what? Out, expelled. What a republic! What a republic they would have! Another thing of this law, the Government could make decrees that were not subject to judicial control. That is not the case in any democracy in the world, but you, in that hypothetical republic, put it in writing, without modesty, in writing, here, voted. Another thing, impunity for the members of the government, for all the crimes they had committed to make this infamy, that nothing happens to them: « To my friends – I choose the judges –, to my colleagues, that nothing happens to them. Or even expropriation of the property of other public administrations. But this is already in detail. What a republic they would have! What a republic! Sad future we would have the Democrats if you would ever get away with it – sad future we would have the Democrats. You trampled on Catalan society, on more than half Catalan society. You silenced the opposition, went over the Rules of Procedure, the lawyers, the Council of State Guarantees, the Catalan institutions, all of them. You, I don't know if you're conscious, but that day you invented one thing, you invented one thing that maybe you could even patent. I think this cartoon sums up perfectly what you did on that day. [[The speaker shows an illustration to the chamber.]] You invented the hemihemicycle, because you erased from a pen the whole half of Catalan society that we did not agree with you, expelled us, trampled us down, silenced us, and the millions of Catalans that we can represent as opposition parties. This you have the dubious honour of having invented, which is the hemisphere in democracy. Fortunately, 155 was applied. They're still surprised. How? « We were so quiet here, and suddenly 155 fell. No, it's just that you guys had done all this. I remember the Lords of Podemos: "No, do not apply it. Let them, that they will correct if, truly, they will no longer do so. Well, lucky that the 155 was applied, if not, right now, the officials would be here who would like the Generalitat; if not, the judges would have chosen them by the Supreme Court; if not, you would have impunity to do what you want. Lucky that 155 was applied; lucky, because, if not, here they would send the CoRs, that almost, almost we are there, but at all, not yet. But this had been coming for a long time, you had been preparing the blow for a long time, with a very well greased machine. And they didn't stay there, they didn't stay with that infamy, no, no; they didn't have enough. He arrived on October 1st and you used our personal data illegally; you used public buildings and resources illegally; you faced bodies and security forces among them, in an unprecedented exercise of irresponsibility. You gave orders to the contradicting Mosses with their duty to act as judicial police, you, you or those who preceded you. But, no doubt, on this day, the failure of the Government of Spain, of management, was evident and we have said it and we have said it that day and we have said it repeatedly. But it wasn't there. On 20 September, the siege took place, the siege of the Economics Council, where it was prevented, attempted to prevent the actions of judicial officials and officials acting in response to a court order. But then came the 3rd of October, which was the chaos in Catalonia, where many people stayed without being able to go to work, without being able to get to or pick up the children from school, lost their appointments with the doctor, cut off public services... And on October 27, you, not happy with the 6th and 7th, not happy with the 1st, not happy with the 3rd, you ended the blow with the declaration of independence. And they are surprised that 155 came and that there were criminal consequences. But in what world have you lived your whole life to be surprised that, after doing all this, someone could call you to testify or have criminal responsibilities? But where have you lived? Any citizen on foot who takes one more day to pay taxes, any self-employed who spends on paying the fee a month knows what's going to fall on him. Any citizen on foot receives a letter from the justice or the administration and opens it with a little fear. You, no, you came here with court rulings and selfies, you took pictures here, with court rulings, and you laughed. And then you're surprised? It is that, in democracy, there is no impunity for politicians. What do you want? Impunity? Why? For being a politician? For being famous? For being rulers? People on foot have to comply with the rules and you don't? I know what you want to do in your imaginary republic, you left it in writing in the Transitional Law, but, luckily, you are not going to get away with it; fortunately, you have wrong century and country, because we are in the twenty-first century, in the European Union. If not because we are in the twenty-first century, in a democratic country of the European Union, poor of us, but fortunately we are here ; fortunately, you will have to face not only the middle of Catalonia, but a rule of law that will stop your feet when Mr Sánchez wants to act. But more things happened, more things happened, because, all this time, constitutionalism, the one you have despised all your life, you have not even seen, because you did not consider them part of Catalonia – you do not consider them now – came to the streets in two mass demonstrations, which made history, which gave the image to the world, together with the victory of Citizens in the elections, that it was not true that this is a problem between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, but that this was a problem between Catalans, which is what always generates nationalism, a problem between citizens, citizens of the same society. And it was important that constitutionalist mobilization in the street and in the polls, because the elections were won by a constitutionalist party, which is Citizens. It is true that you have one thing in your favour: it is that you have an electoral law that gives you an absolute majority in Parliament with 47_per_cent of the votes. That is true, that the People's Party and the Socialist Party, only having changed that law, would not know either who Puigdemont or who you are, Mr. Torra, because you would not have had an independence government with an absolute majority; only with that law, it was not necessary or expended if much money, to change a law to have a much fairer electoral system. But, I insist, the most important thing is not what has happened, which is serious, but the blow continues. You are continuing with this coup, because you have the mechanisms to continue with the coup. You do not rectify, you are not rectifying, quite the contrary, you are making the same mistakes and, above all, aggravated. And the surprise was when we knew that the next president of the Generalitat was going to be Mr. Torra, who, man, a moderate, moderate profile was not. We already seemed unmoderate Puigdemont, since when Mr. Torra appeared it was already the end, because, of course, with these articles, eh? , call us « things ; Mr Torra, President, you have written of us that we are « things : « These things we have to endure, like the PP or Ciutadans... We are not « the PP or Ciutadans, and the Socialist Party, are we not? Huh? "These things that we have to endure, like the PP or Citizens and other protofeixists, are nothing but. Total emptiness. And then he goes on, because you have a reel in this: « Who would say to him one, of these Spaniards who live with us, that has meant something to history? "Besties with human form..., well, some things that makes me even ashamed to read the, but it's you... And, by the way, a very unwelcome comment, you came out with a banner saying, "We're going to gather, aren't we? I'll remind you of what you wrote in 2012. "There's a risk that the Catalan nation, obviously, "is torn apart like a sugar cane in a jar of ice between the immigrant allau. You wrote this, you wrote this. [[Greetings.]] And more beautiful as, for you, the people of the north, therefore, are cleaner, nobler, freer and more cultured than the people of the south. "Gent," you said of the independenceist people, "who have already forgotten to look to the south and return to the north, where the people are net, noble, free and educated. That's what you wrote, Mr. Torra. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, he does it in the article. He makes it his own in the article, because many barbarities have been written throughout life, but, if you assume them as your own in a chapter in which you defend independence, you are assuming them as your own. [[Widow's remorse.]] What about the "allau immigratori " also wrote Espriu, Mr. Torra? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.132.0	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.133.0	What about the ‘ wild beasts '? You don't like me reminding you of these articles, do you? Do you remember the investiture session that I promised you? [[Widow's remorse.]] I will personally see to it that these articles are heard in Europe. Do you know what I did? Do you know that I kept my word? [[Greetings.]] You said: "Everyone is with the independence cause. Well, you say « Catalan cause, we already know this little problem that has to confuse the part with the whole, don't you? But the three main parties in the European Parliament have said that their articles are racist, xenophobic and supremacist; the Liberals, the European People's Party and the Socialist Party of the European Chamber, the three main parties. That is, when you talk about the success of the internationalization of the process, I believe that the success has been the internationalization of your articles, Mr Torra, because, of course, it is to cross borders, with the barbarities that you have written. But you continue in the coup and you, every day, attack the Catalan institutions, every day. When you closed the plenary session of Parliament, you were attacking the Catalan institutions. When you hold a parallel presidency, because you say that Mr Torra is not the legitimate president, but that he is a gentleman who is fleeing justice, you are attacking the institution of the Presidency of the Generalitat. When you want to make a government parallel to the Government of the Generalitat, without democratic control, nor parliamentary, nor anything – as you like, huh? , without control – they are attacking the Government of the Generalitat. When you make or want to make an election assembly parallel to the Parliament you are attacking the Parliament of Catalonia. You didn't have enough to stand alone with half a Parliament that want to make a parliament just for you. I know, if you are insatiable; in the theft of rights to Catalans you are insatiable. We're going on – we're going on. Embassies. The same weeks when it was said that there was no money, that payments could not be returned, in the plenary of childhood, yesterday, we heard again and again that it is the fault of 'Spain steals us, of the fiscal plunder, well, then, money to open the third batch of embassies have, to promote outside the borders not only of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia but of Spain, for that you have no problem whatsoever; for that, you have no budgetary restriction. By the way, how did the news come out today that we are beginning to investigate the payment of 1.6_million_euros only to a lobby for the 9N. What you will have spent! That's today's news, a recent news. The prosecution begins to investigate the payment of 1,6_million_de_euros for a lobby to promote the 9N, to work for the 9N. Let's see what you have to have out there and what you've spent on our money. We're on. The symbolology. You think you own Catalonia. You have the municipalities, the delegations abroad – of course – the departments full of party symbolism. You drive people out of institutions, from the streets and from the people's parties who don't think like you. Do not Catalans who are not independentists have the right to go to town parties or to go to the beach without seeing party symbolism? Don't you have a right? Do they not pay taxes, like the rest of the citizens? Can you not guarantee institutional neutrality that respects all ideologies? You guys keep doing it. What does the Government of Spain do? Nothing. The coup continues, but we are unprotected by the Government of Spain. The Mossos d'Esquadra. By the way, you have sent to identify the people who pull ties, but those who put them, no. We have identifications of people who were pulling ties, we have – and I look at this, Mr. Buch, who perhaps you don't even know, because you weren't in charge yet – identifications of people who were putting Spanish flags in Barcelona. Identifications of people who put Spanish flags, identifications of people who remove yellow ties, but, as far as I know, I don't know if I'm wrong, if not, correct me, I have no knowledge of identifications of people who put yellow ties. Is that the Administration at the service of all? That's a blow, that's using the officials to continue the blow. And we're still talking about Mossos d'Esquadra, because you faced other security forces on October 1st, you confronted them with court orders, and today, do you know what the Mossos d'Esquadra are asking for, what the unions are asking for? A very simple thing, that you give them the orders in writing. Check it out. They ask them for other things, too, in labour matters and other demands, but now, before Friday, that orders be received in writing. And I'm going to give you a thought. You have done a very dangerous thing in democracy, which is to question the use of force by the State Security Forces and Bodies, even when a court ruling is enforced. And you, when you did it with the National Police and the Civil Guard, thought you were only attacking the National Police and the Civil Guard, which is already serious; but when you delegitimize a force or security corps, you are delegitimizing all security forces and bodies. And then, to Mr. Torra, to say that you have to see what the Mosses have done, that they will make changes. Mr. Buch, you won't shake your wrist. When what you were doing is doing your job, which is facing up to the violent, whom you encourage, who are the CDRs. That's all the squad mossos did. Therefore, orders, better in writing, because you are putting many officials between the sword and the wall. And do we keep talking about officials? Do you remember Councilwoman Borràs, when she encouraged officials to take the day off to go and support Mr. Mas in court? Do you remember the arrests organized by the Government itself, such as those of October 3rd? , in which poor of the official who was going to work that day – poor of the official – because, of course, he could go to work, but pointed out for good. Or, now, the Councillor's new initiative: "We're going to make people choose if they want to take a vacation on the day of the Constitution." See? - Let's see. You take it, you don't, you've doubted, you... [[Greetings.]] They already have an ideological map. It's an ideological map. Yes, civil servants have the right to take national holidays, and you want to do it is to volunteer, because so« who is going to work is ours, who is not going to work..., mmm, this..., mmm, I haven't seen much yellow lace to this one in the flap, lately, huh? You want to make an ideological map of the officials, and what you have to do is pay them what they owe and let them work in peace, without symbolism. [[Greetings.]] We have statements from people who are not grateful for their parties, their mayors. To us, specifically, it is not only that they have made violent slaps and wanted to assault us on our territorial visits, it is that I have met the mayor of a municipality, of Esquerra Republicana, telling me that I had to leave their municipality because I was provoking. Does that sound like provoking to you? « It's just that you're provoking, huh? A person who has won the elections... "Here, walking through a municipality in Catalonia, that is an intolerable provocation. Go to the town hall. That's what a Mayor of Esquerra told me. That's what you're doing. In the university, yesterday, a fascist attack against constitutionalists – fascist. [[Greetings.]] Or what is it? Or what, act violently against a university organization that has requested permission to do an act? Fascism. Because there are fascists of all kinds, huh? A lot of fascism. Yes, a lot of fascism, with one flag and another; with the "stell as well; with all the flags. For violent acts are fascism; so are those who attack us. Fascism. [[Greetings.]] I'm going to do an exercise – I'm going to do an exercise –: I condemn all violent and fascist acts against the media, whether Catalunya Ràdio or Global Chronicle; against acts, whether in favour of independence or against independence. Are you able to do the same? – Are you able to do the same? Because, what, that fascism if you have a stellate is already cured? If you use violence, but you're an independentist, can't you be a fascist anymore? Fascism must condemn everything. And fascism is violently attacking Catalonia Ràdio; yes, I condemn it; also Global Chronicle. But what you cannot go out then to say: "No, nothing violent has happened here. Of course violent things have happened in Catalonia. And the CDRs are violent. And the attacks on the mossos are violent. Of course I do. Because you have a problem with reality. You from the question have denied me again that there has been violence. [[The speaker shows a photograph to the chamber.]] Is this not violence? You've told me two things. First: « It is false. I don't know if you think this is what I drew. I don't have arts, arts. I tell you, I don't have any artistic skills. I mean, I didn't draw this; this is a photograph. [[The speaker shows another photograph.]] The attempt to assault Parliament. I mean, you have a problem, Mr. Torra; well, a few. But you have a problem: either you have a problem with reality... because this has happened, and this is violent. You have a problem with reality, that you think this has not occurred in Catalonia or that you consider this to be not violence – that then the problem we all have as well. Is this violence, yes or no, Mr. Torra? This is violence. And this is what is expected for Friday? And you say: « There has been no violence in Catalonia. Because you consider that there is no..., that is, that it is incompatible to be independent and violent. I think you can be violent with any ideology and any territory, but you have a bit of a fixation on saying this. Is this violence or not violence? This is violence. And this has happened. Condemn it. And say Friday you can't produce any of these features because it's illegal, it's violent, and you're going to make a public call to avoid it. And then they complain about the social fracture. How is there not going to be a social fracture in Catalonia, if you insult those who are not like you because we do not have the same ideology? Moreover, they do not consider us Catalonia. You repeat it. Today, in the control session, you have done it again, Mr. Torra. "The Catalan cause," he said again. It is not a Catalan cause, it is a cause of Catalan independence. It's not the Catalan cause. Or are we not Catalans? I repeat: Are we Catalan or are we not Catalan? Well, then, it's not the Catalan cause; it's the cause of 47_per_cent of Catalans. Not even the majority. It's the cause of the 47_per_cent of Catalans, which would be very doubtful to know if they agree with you on tightening, huh? , to the CoRs, and to appeal to the way of Slovenia. By the way, the way to Slovenia. It's not just that there was a war, it's not just that there were dozens of deaths. Do you also know what happened in Slovenia? Which for you is a reference and I make myself tremble. After the war, after the declaration of independence, thousands of people were erased from the map because they were denied the nationality to which they, the new Government, considered that they did not belong to the people of Slovenia. When you make these references, we start to tremble, because we know very well who Catalans are to you and who we are not Catalans to you. And that's not much to talk about. There is talk of war, of course, about the dead, and there is little talk of the de facto expulsion that was made. Thousands of people were denied nationality. Is that what you want to do with us? Is that the Slovenian way? Because the Slovenian way is that – the Slovenian way is that. The Slovenian track ended like this, Mr. Torra. And when you say « press the CoRs, what do you mean? Tighten the nuts? Tighten who? When you do troubling tweets... well, it's all troubling, actually. But when you tweet about the government, saying you have to be willing to do everything, what is it you're referring to? Be ready for everything, what is it? It's just that when you encourage the CDRs, and you say that you have to be ready for everything, it's that you have to be very afraid. [[The speaker shows a document to the chamber.]] Mr Bosch, too: "Slovene road is the easy and fast way. « The fast track, he said, in 2013. What a fear! What a fear of government! [[The speaker showed another document.]] The Government of the Generalitat, from the official account of the Government – from the official account –: "We call on the Slovenian way. We don't have to. Well, I..., some of us are afraid of you, very much. The Slovenians, the Slovenian way. What are you playing at? I mean, what do you think he's got in his hands? That you have the future of 7 million and a half people in your hands! Are They Conscious? Or was it only thought that being a politician was for privileges and protocol dealings? That you have responsibilities! Of course there's a social fracture. How is the social fracture not going to occur? Public reporting campaigns to constitutionalist political leaders by their governing partners, claimed by the CDRs and Arran. And are you unable to say that here, of course, all the lines are being crossed? The judges. Judges who are seeing how, every day, the courts are being attacked, their private houses. There's no violence. Attacking judges, attacking private houses, isn't that violence, Mr. Torra? I told you that the most important thing that happened today, I think is that you have missed the last chance to do what you have to do as president. I know you don't like responsibilities, but I'm going to remind you of a responsibility you have. Because in the face of the violent acts that are going to happen on Friday, because the coup continues... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen, listen, Mr. Torra. You have three responsibilities in the face of Friday's violent acts: one, to say that they are illegal and not to protect them as if it were a right to demonstration or concentration, because they are not, because they are illegal acts. Secondly, to call for the absence of such acts announced by the CoRs. It's your duty, Mr. Torra. And, third, to take measures to ensure that such violent and illegal acts do not affect the freedoms and rights of Catalans. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, he didn't. He said there has been no violence. For you, this is not violence. You're justifying what happened and what can happen on Friday. You are calling for these acts not to take place. But do you know why you won't? Because you are not here as the President of the Government, you are here as the spokesman of the CoRs in the Government of the Generalitat, who have put you, the gentlemen of the CUP, at the head of the Generalitat of Catalonia. And since you haven't used all the opportunities you've had..., because you see that you've had opportunities to say that violent acts are broken down, to make it very clear that that's not the right to demonstration or concentration because those rights are regulated and covered by other regulations, as you haven't said that you condemn violent acts, because you just say that they haven't occurred, deny that they have occurred, we're going to file a complaint against you; a complaint for your protection, for your justification and for all the consent you're doing for what's going to happen next Friday. We're going to file a lawsuit against you. Because we are going to defend democracy in Parliament, in institutions, in the courts and anywhere in Catalonia or in the rest of Spain, without subjecting ourselves to violence or calls to declare us people not grateful of their representatives. Because I say one thing again: please don't confuse Spain with Sánchez. That you've been hit by the lottery. That you have a very big chollo. But neither Catalonia are you, nor Spain is Mr Sánchez. Because you do not represent the citizens of Catalonia, not everything, and you have to submit to justice as the rest of the citizens. The 6th and 7th was a blow to democracy. But the problem is not that the blow occurred, it's that you're continuing it. And then they'll say they didn't expect it. And then they'll say they didn't expect any political reactions to this. Wait for the reactions. And maybe 155 will have to come, of course, because you're doing exactly the same or more than what happened a year ago on that infamous day. And lastly – and lastly – let's move on. Just like we won in the polls...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.134.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.135.0	... just as we defend here the Catalans as a whole, we will continue to defend them also in the courts. And we're going to file a lawsuit against... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.136.0	It's coming back to the President of the Generality. It's his turn, President. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Tell me, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.137.0	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.138.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.139.0	Another time you have taken the word out to the speaker without making the two preceptive insights, and ask him that, despite the fact that who speaks is the head of the opposition and is saying that he will file a complaint with the President of the Generality, you will not make it without a _second realization. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.140.0	All right. President, when you say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.141.0	Very good. Very good morning to everyone. I, President, if you will allow me, may be because of my political inexperience, but I have not just heard these plenums that are being asked in this chamber where they are talking about everything, except what is supposed to be the title of the plenary. And, therefore, I would ask – I would ask – the readers of this chamber their opinion on the development of this plenary and how, since the Presidency, it is not asked to stick to the title of the plenary. Because there has been a whole series of demonstrations here, it has been spoken for three-quarters or 90 percent of the content of this speech... that does not refer to the question in concrete terms. F-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.142.0	President, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.143.0	More than anything, President, because it's the second time that it happens. I have no problem discussing everything, and obviously we are prepared to discuss and debate the 6th and 7th plenary. But, of course, that ended this Ple..., [[remorse of the voice]] that the intervention of the head of the opposition ended, threatening with a complaint, with a complaint to the President of the Generalitat, so, frankly, it seems to me frankly that, well, in all... Therefore, I, if I may, will focus on the subject that is the subject of the debate. I hope the rest of the groups do, too, because that's why they ask these plenary sessions, I understand. We had many occasions to talk about these issues in other... And I'm very sorry, Mrs. Arrimadas – I'm very sorry – that you, for the second time, take advantage of a few plenary sessions to discuss issues that are not the object of the plenary. Because it's very interesting that we're talking about September 6th and 7th, and as long as it is! And so I will devote myself to talking about what happened on September 6th and 7th. [[Widow's remorse.]] And I start: "If freedom means anything, it's the right to tell others that they don't want to listen. This sentence, by George Orwell, sums up very well one of the problems we have in this Parliament and also in the Spanish State: there is a difficult problem of freedom. It's already begun to see a lot of people from Europe, and more there. It is quite obvious: freedom, to you, bothers them. Those who say they work for what the Catalans are really worried about right now are debating something that they just have an interest in coming back because it helps them to cover up you see exactly what it is. Well, we've seen it: we've seen it in the intervention before, exactly, the one they were trying to cover up with this debate. I, tanmateix, let's talk about it, of course we will: we will always talk. Unlike the proposed group, we have never opposed giving Parliament the function it should never have been prevented from: talking and debating everything, without limits, without threats – without threats – without quarrels. What a shame to announce a complaint to the President of the Generalitat – what a shame, what a shame! [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And, first of all, let us remember all that there is a democratic, honourable and peaceful person locked in prison, precisely for this, for having defended that Parliament must always talk, and that there can be no forbidden topic. And this is what was put in question on September of last year and what had been prevented during the previous months. The Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is the temple of the word, a temple of dialogue and debate, a temple of agreement and negotiation. It should be, and it's the place where the people's sovereignty is wrong through their democratically chosen representatives. A Parliament should be the place where the majority of the people's will can be achieved, precisely the place that is given response and lives of fulfilment to democratic mandates so that they do not have to look for other ways out of institutions. This is our main responsibility as parliamentarians, as representatives of the citizens: channeling the wishes and interests of the citizenry and adapting the legal and institutional frameworks to the will of the majority of society. The difference between legitimacy and legality is that the first job is to adapt laws to citizens' wishes, while the second job is to fit citizenship into laws, even though those laws are now obsolete. The friend and writer Melcior Comes said this in the following way: "Politics basically consist of legal reform and the uptake of supports to make it possible. Certainly, these last few years we have had in Catalonia the old shock between legitimacy and legality, between democracy and inflexibility, between the prevalence of popular will and the rule of law. And this is not a new debate: we have not invented anything in Catalonia; this dialectic is very old and has been quite debated. And that's why it's strange to us that forces are said to be progressives defending the most reactionary positions of all. I am not just saying this– let us not say this–; I am saying Article 21.3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: "The will of the people is the power of the authority of the public powers: the will of the people. The law is nothing but unalterable. In fact, the law must be the result of a majority vote expressed through the citizens' vote. When it ceases to be necessary to update it if it is not to fall into a fracture between institutions and citizens. This is the real fracture that we live in Catalonia: that the legal framework has lost legitimacy because it is not what most citizens would want. Someone might argue that this is not true, that most people have not expressed themselves in this sense, and I do not agree, but only one way of resolving the doubt was found: voting. But voting in a referendum where you are asked precisely whether you want to overcome the Spanish constitutional mark or not. This is what we did the October of the year with the reference to Catalonia's independence, and the answer, ladies and gentlemen, was very clear, very clear, very clear! [[Greetings.]] If some of you do not want to recognize the outcome of the reference, they have the whole right of the world, but if you are not willing to ask, you cannot intend to answer the question in the name of citizenship, because the rules that do not answer in the name of people are not democratic rules. Someone who doesn't want to ask the citizen what he thinks doesn't have a right to answer on his behalf. Repeat: those who do not allow the citizen to ask what they think do not have the right to answer on his behalf. The majority that supports the government that presides has always sought democratic approval. We have done nothing that you are not punished at the polls, we have not done anything that you do not have a majority vote at the end: no – no – no or no –. The year 2012 was called a few elections after you failed the proposal of the fiscal pact, which counted on an anchoring support of this chamber. In those elections of six years ago, the sobriranism achieved an absolute majority in favour of convening a consultation on the future politics of Catalonia. And before the systemic refusal of the Spanish State was made the consultation on 9 November, with a clear result. Some elections and a consultation: ballots, votes and democratic mandates. Given the State's refusal to negotiate a referendum granted and binding, the political majority in Catalonia, with President Arthur Mas and the opposition leader Oriol Junqueras, decided that it was necessary to go back to the polls to see if there was still the majority in favour of the exercise of the right to self-determination. And on September 2015 they made some elections with plebiscitari character. The independence majority has renewed, and only the indefinacy of some formations has prevented the plebiscite on independence from being diaphanous. With a clear mandate for the exercise of the right to decide and with the new refusal of the State to consult the citizenry, the renewed majority and its government, now with President Carles Puigdemont in the lead and Oriol Junqueras in the vice-president, he undertook the proposal to make a self-determination reference. And this was the first October of the past year, despite the threat, intimidation, legal persecution, and defiant rape that the State posed. We all know the outcome. And let me remind you that the formula was again the same, the usual: some choices and a reference. That is to say: ballots, votes and democratic mandates. What was the strategy of a good part of the opposition during the months between the September 2015 elections and the October 17 referendum? Everyone knows this and there are few doubts: obstruction, threat, judicialization, filibusterism, conflict, for, verbal tremor and apocalyptic predictions. They're already out there, they're already arguing with us. Everyone remembers, because it's an image that still feels normal, the deputies who have spent all this time making judicial agents. Members who instead of debating ideas have dedicated themselves to asking for written evidence of any decision taken to bring her to court. Continue to judicialize politics! Stop legalizing politics! Bet of judicializing politics, Mrs. Arrimadas, bet of a time! I'll bet you once in a while! This ple is not an example. Some who are Members of this House would consider themselves more than judges or prosecutors. They don't like discussing ideas, projects and proposals. Some Members of this chamber want to be a part and arbiter at a time. This is the problem that we all experienced on 6 and 7 September, inside and outside Parliament: we saw how a minority sought to use all the reasons of the Rules together with the constant judicial threat to prevent debate and approval of democratic warrants validated in legal elections that no one had invalidated. I insist: legal elections with a program that voted for citizenship and that no one had invalidated. We are already before the truth that bothers them the most: that they do not win the ballot boxes, the elections, they want to win it before a judge. They've shown us again more clearly than ever this year. They do not accept the results, and find any way to prevent the vote of the citizenry from deciding politics in Catalonia. I have been prevented from the investiture of Molt Honorable President Carles Puigdemont, first, and Deputy Jordi Sánchez and Councillor Jordi Turull, then. And they're looking to prevent it by altering the composition of this Parliament with absolutely improper suspensions. The fact that they do not like the Catalans voting aims to invalidate the majority and the electoral mandates with the help of a Spanish judiciary that causes shame in Europe for the lack of independence, for the manifest partiality and for the absence of procedural guarantees. What's the point of Spain's justice in responding to the resources of political prisoners? Why does it prevent the illegal blockade of European justice? What's he doing to them? Where's the defense right left? Who can expect a trial just when they abuse power this way? I remind all of you, all of you who smile and all of you who look down, that there are four of your fellow Members of this Parliament who have been on the streets for decades. And they don't ask for a release, which would be fair and enforceable, no. They don't ask for any privileges and no favors, either. They only ask that the Constitutional Court apply its law and resolve the appeals submitted. A Constitutional Court which met on an emergency basis and at the end of the week when it was trying to pursue democracy at the institutions of the Spanish Government but which has been more than a year since it gives no answer to a number of appeals which should have been resolved in less than thirty days. Doesn't this right-wing violation concern you? Quiet. Don't they ask for a monogram for this? Quiet. How come they don't stand up now in defense of the law and the state of law? Where are they, with the company in the middle of fame, where are their legalist scruples? [[Greetings.]] And now we are talking about legalities and laws: how do they carry the study of Article 10.2 of the Constitution? Do you know what he's talking about the international treaties signed for the Spanish State? They know that Article 96.1 states that "international treaties which have been validly concluded will form part of the internal order once they have been officially published in Spain. And do you know that the Spanish State signed the United Nations Charter and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, international treaties that support the nation's right of self-determination? [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] I am not to be defended by a Constitution passed forty years ago for a very small part of the citizenry with the right to vote today in Catalonia, but with the law and with the Constitution at hand the reference that is intended to prevent and prohibit it is well legal, and you should be the first interested ones to celebrate it. I'm saying this because it's you who deny that there's a majority who want independence. I wonder if it's easy to shut us up for a good season: let's make a given reference, linking and recognising internationally and that citizenship is freely expressed. What are they possibly afraid of? Is it maybe they're afraid of the vote? MPs and MPs from Ciutadans, the PP, the PSC : you are going through the urgent process of two laws – which according to you do not have a valid one – because they went very well to cover who dedicated himself to obstructing the good course of democracy in Catalonia many years ago. Catalonia has had independence from many years ago. For a long time, when they were a clear minority, these independenceists accepted that they did not have the democratic force enough to undertake their democratic project. So much so that just over a decade ago the independenceists agreed to participate in a statutory reform to seek to strengthen the country's self-government and good governance. Before you were independent, we were democrats, and therefore you did not come to want to impose our political project on a majority contracting party. And that's what we're asking everyone, and concretely you: that before you unionize they're democrats, and therefore they don't intend to impose their project of indivisible, indissoluble and eternal Spain on a social majority that is controlling there. Well advanced in the 21st century and in the framework of the European Union, it should not be so strange to ask everyone that you accept the majority, that you do not oppose democracy and that you do not intend to impose political projects that no longer have the majority support of the citizenry. So far we have seen that when they have not managed to get them to vote, independent people who have been sentenced to European human rights courts to impose their minority will have been used in the polls. They did so with the Statute of Autonomy approved in reference, legal and legitimate, which was occupied to liquidate a _dozen of judgments in Madrid... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, Mrs. Arrimadas, there aren't enough deputies to play a coma of a statue. It is enough with twelve members of the Constitutional Court to play not just a Statute, but to practically liquidate a Sencer Statute. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Frankly, we are concerned by this insistence on imposing a government of justice on us by a government of representatives of the citizenry. Threatening with quarrels, with dismissals, one time and another... but what do you want to convert Catalan politics into? And going back to the beginning, you have to answer a very clear question: do you want to adapt the laws to the democratic will or do you want to twist the democratic will to adapt it to the laws? Because you wanted us to fall into a trap, which you can see for an hour and a half. They wanted to believe that democracy and the Constitution were the same thing, and after forty years it proved that democracy and the Constitution are not the same. They answer without: who needs to adapt, the law or the popular will? [[Widow's remorse.]] Precisely because we believed that it was the law that was to adapt to the democratically expressed will in September 2017 that brought to Parliament the laws that allowed two things: first, that it was the citizenry that decided, and second, that if it decided independence had a legal framework to start walking. From a Parliament, which belongs to the sobriety of Catalonia, you have read in accord with the democratic mandate of an election which you did not contest. Remember that since Madrid the two great parties of the Spanish political system say that in absence of violence it is possible to talk about everything? Do I remember? Where's that promise left? Why can't those of us who have never raised a weapon, or even just our hands, realize our political project validated in the elections? What democratic principles supports this impediment? Why do they undertake and pursue representatives who work democratically and peacefully for their political projects? Why are they arguing with them? Remember how you came to the Constitutional Court to boycott the democratic majority of this Parliament, whenever you disagreed with the decisions it made? For the first time, for the first time since the end of the franchise, this court intervened and ruled on political debates in Parliament, and not strictly on the constitutionality of laws. If this was its function, why had it not done so on all previous occasions when the chamber had approved resolutions in favor of the right of self-determination, which have been various? Why didn't he go to the Constitutional Court then? What was the novelty? Why did it happen now? What is it maybe because there's a majority of politics to make it happen? Isn't this a recognition of the political performance of the Constitutional Court precisely? You know perfectly well, even though, logically, they wouldn't accept it. You are deaf to playing on the ground of the game with the peace of mind to know that if you don't win for your dues, the referee will give you the victory, even if you haven't made a goal. [[Greetings.]] The use, better said, the abuse of the Constitutional Court, reinforced by a reform of its law, criticized for the same Venice Commission, is a breach of the principle of parliamentary inviolability and of the very basis of parliamentarianism. Why has not that reform approved by the absolute majority of the PP been completed? The majority that made it possible to win Rajoy's motion of censure voted in bloc against that reform. Why isn't this measure so criticized as to give sanctioning power to the Constitutional Court? I have not seen them complain or make monographic debates against that reform, which was done for a single and urgent reading at the Spanish Congress. A little responsibility, lords and lords of 155, a little responsibility. If the unit of Spain needs to use violence and repression to be imposed, it may no longer have the legitimacy or authority that you would want in Catalonia. I think if it's so important that you have to impose yourself with violence, arrest and exile. I can tell you that we, myself, as a member of the government, as a member of the independence majority of this chamber, will never – ever – use violence to make our political project worth it. More. [[Greetings.]] Because before any political project we defend and defend democracy and, therefore, the compliment of electoral mandates. And you too should defend him, or, even more, you should demand it from opposition. It's been a long time since we heard them say, "Completing election promises. A few years ago, the opposition required the government to compliment the promises; now you are doing all the opposite, and you are demanding that we do not fulfill our commitments. Since the elections of 2015, in order to be able to last the electoral mandate, it has tried to reform the Regulation of this chamber in a line that would equal the majority of regulations of legislative chambers of the Spanish State and of Europe. The idea was to open up the possibility of introducing single-reading legislative proposals, without being subscribed to by all parliamentary groups; that is to say, it was looking for a formula that you did not allow the famous blocking minority. I insist that it is a formula that works for the majority of parliamentary regulations. But, once again, the Spanish Government prevented a majority decision of the Parliament from coming to the Constitutional Court for a decrement and were suspected of being a precautionary measure of urgency on the sale of the same week. Dim, dim, dim, dim, dim, dim, dim, dim, dim, dim, dim, dim, It is good that when the Constitutional Court has made a political decision, it can give itself a hurry. When you make all this show to denounce the September 6th and 7th plenary sessions, you forget all about this film; you talk only about what interests you, grab a trosset from here, a little bit from there, a sentence from here, a feeling from there, and create your perfect Frankenstein to denounce the alleged violation of rights that they say it was produced. By the way, people have memories, and we remember perfectly the trajectory of what you have been doing in this Parliament for these last few years. I repeat to you what I said to you before: be brave and democrat, play the game of politics. They don't take us to court, they play politics. Don't always threaten us, don't threaten us. Don't always use this convenience that gives them the reason and that it is the Constitutional Court. The majority in the ballot box – the majority in the ballot box. Accept democracy, as we've accepted independence all these past years that we weren't the majority. He reminded them, before their selective amnesia, that the reform of Parliament's Rules of Procedure with the letter to the Constitution had fallen. Well, it fell temporarily, because then it settled that the reform was not unconstitutional. But you had already succeeded in what you wanted, which was to force the majority to seek the last lives to approve the law that was to be promised to the citizenry. Do you understand all that you have to do in order not to accept the majority of the citizens of Catalonia? It was therefore necessary to use Rule 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure in order to introduce a point on the agenda of the plenary of 6 September to debate and approve the Law of the Referendum. And it passed exactly the same September 7th to debate and approve the Law of Legal and Foundational Transition, which had to come into force if the outcome of the reference was favourable to independence. Of all this film, you are only fixed on September 6th and 7th. If they are fixed so much at a concrete moment..., well, in fact, Mrs. Arrimadas has not fixed herself in absolute, because she has spoken of everything except September 6th and 7th; but, well, if they are fixed so much at a concrete moment, in a formula or in a procedure, it is to avoid talking about the real problem that we have with Catalan politics, a problem that detects any impartial observer who decides to approach the Catalan reality with sincere will to hear the conflict between the people of Catalonia and the Spanish State. In short, the big problem: the refusal of the Spanish government to debate and negotiate the formula to give the view to the citizenry about the future political of Catalonia. The big problem – the big problem – is the use of State institutions, starting with the prosecution, the State Council, the Constitutional Court, not to mention the police of the Supreme Court. Should I remind you of the words of the President of the Supreme Court, saying that ‘the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation is a direct legal mandate which must be guaranteed by the judges and the courts? What is the basis of the Constitution? In democracy and in the people's vote or in the ‘indissoluble unity of the country'? In this sense, the reminders that they were able to achieve a cautious suspension of the reform of the Rules of Parliament which would have avoided the use of Article 81.3 on 6 and 7 September, knowing that it was a fully constitutional and valid reform. But they took advantage of the prerogative of Article 161.2 of the Constitution to cut a fully legitimate path, and this has no other name than to abuse the institutions of the State for a particular political benefit, not to play in the field of politics. Is it really they thought that with all that strategy of appeals, of complaints, of threats, of blocking, the majority of parliament would resign from its responsibility for parliamentary representation? It is you who with your strategy brought the majority to a single exit to carry out an electoral, legal and legitimate mandate. The absolute independenceist majority tried to make those laws by joint motion, and you said no. They took them to a study committee, and you pursued their conclusions a little more, challenging them to the Constitutional. Finally the debate was not possible under the conditions that we would have liked; it was done in the manner that you were forced to do. Congresswoman Marta Rovira told them that the same day in one of the great parliaments that took place in this chamber, which gave them a lesson of democratic values. Marta Rovira gave you all a lesson in democratic values that day. [[Greetings.]] And also... – thank you very much, Marta – and all these steps were made with publicity and knowledge of everyone, and always inviting parliamentary groups to participate in the debate. They followed all the legal and regulatory procedures, all of them. September 6th and 7th was a procedure, 81.3, which you had approved a few months back, concretely on May 17th of 2017. And both that day as in the debates that you have today wanted to pose has enabled a time for the presentation of papers of the groups, the same way that had been done on the previous occasion that you did not denounce but voted in favour. Unfortunately, today's debate on his petition is more of a demonstration of the reasons that led us to approve those laws in that Ple. You desperately—desperately—seek an image of chasm. With ideas and arguments, they don't have enough, they don't know. Look for the cricket – look for the cricket – and this seems to me to be an absolute irresponsibility, and more of someone, like you, who are the first group in the chamber. The great problem in this country is also the intent of the liquidation of parliamentarianism. And the most consistent proof of that is that today more than three hundred days ago President Forcadell is in prison for scrupulously completing her work: allowing political debates. What democracy can a Member accuse or undertake for ideas he defends in a parliament? In which parliament of the world did its president undertake to do her job and allow the debate of ideas to take place? In what parliament of the world? [[Greetings.]] Defending parliamentarianism. We'll always defend him. We will always defend the right of political participation and the right of political expression that you have tried to deny to the majority of Parliament. It is denying these fundamental rights that many of you support the judicial persecution of the members of the Bureau and the suspension, now, of democratically elected deputies. All these loops we have in these benches, when they're done, these loops? - When will these loops end? Of your company, of your escho company! The great problem in Catalonia is that a court should be used as an example of rigour and independence, in order to fight it politically. We must remove the Constitutional Court from the political struggle. What do you do with your work – what do you do with your work – but the political battle is over. Just remember that there was a time when the Constitutional Court was looking at Parliament's agenda to meet at the same hours as the Bureau to be able to make ad hoc resolutions. The problem is that a court that does not have the jurisdictional function is required to fine and disable those who do not complete their sentences, and that way one of the fundamental principles of any right-wing state is broken. If you were worried about democracy, as you like to say, you would have risen against the feeling of a state approved in reference to most Catalans and would demand that it be respected what the citizens say in the ballot box. So far we've been talking about insights and yours and our perception of those September 2017 plenary sessions. What if we ask ourselves how the citizens of Catalonia saw them? The answer will not be invented, nor will it be the result of a new intuition. So much so that we observe the question that the CEO asked about the sensations that had produced various events in the late past. The question asked about the feelings of anger, for, pride, shame, illusion, which could have produced the parliamentary debate of 6 and 7 September, the first of October, the proclamation of independence, the application of 155, the call for elections and, finally, the results of 21-D. The answers, in the form of scores, are based on a scale of zero to god, in which zero meant "people and god," "very much." Well, you wanted to do a lot of digging with the debates of September 6th and 7th, big skirmishes, and you turned out to be indignant. They did it then, thinking that they would pass on these scandalous sensations to the people, but they failed. And let's give it to your hand, the CEO's dice. In fact, the first conclusion that can be drawn from the answers given is that those debates caused a lot of people indifference, it is to say that they did not live in the passionate way that some of you wanted to make believe, with their gesticulation to the plenary and to the press rooms and to the television sets. More than half the population said that those debates had not caused them any sensation. And that was so among the pros for independence as among the pros for the unit of Spain. I can also tell you that the feelings of anger or shame were much stronger, immensely stronger, for the violence of the first October and for the application of 155 than not for the debates of September. But obviously, you, who do not go to the Commission on the 155th, who have held debates on the first of October, in change have wanted to devote a whole monographic debate to the debate of the first of September 2017, when more than a year has passed. And finally, of the conclusions that can be drawn from the data that we have on the value of the citizens of the events of the past, we also have a very clear idea of the report that you are making up and that you have wanted to fit under the idea of a time to democracy. I have to tell you that this object has also failed. Citizenship has perfectly understood that this was a legitimate and democratic debate. You know that by manipulating words you can manipulate reality, but you should know that the truth is still much louder and that the citizens of this country are not so easily entangled. As much as he insists on it, he won't change the reality. And the reality is that in a state of the European Union, 2018, there were political prisoners and exiles. That's what many Europeans are worried about, and I should start worrying about all of you. Do you know what most Europeans say in a study published for the Elcano Institute, people suspected of independence? So they say that Spain has not been talking to Catalonia and that independence would be good for Catalans. Of the countries surveyed– Belgium, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Sweden and Portugal – there is no one who believes that independence would not be good for the Catalans better than they think it would be; in the heads of these countries. They strongly criticise, in the same vein, the authoritarianism of the reaction of the Spanish State against the proclamation of independence. 49_% of Europeans are of the parent that Spain has acted in a totality, against only 21_% who think it is not. This study also says that the citizens of the United Kingdom, Belgium and Germany are the most critical towards the performance of the Spanish State. Interestingly, the countries where the judicial battle of persecution of the Spanish State against President Puigdemont and the rest of the exiles has been clearer. And another point of this study: the level of knowledge of the conflict between the people of Catalonia and the Kingdom of Spain is high in all the countries consulted, between 77_% of knowledge and 95_%. That internal thing that you say and that Mr. Borrell forces everyone to say, therefore, does not seem as internal as they intended. In short, we invite them to return to the path of democratic debate and respect for different opinions. They're still in time. They can defend what they think, we'll never stop them, and we'll never take them to court to do it. [[Greetings.]] We will never take them to court to defend their ideas, we will never bring them here. It is quite legitimate that they do not want a Catalonia free and ready, it is quite legitimate; but it is not legitimate that they intend to destroy democracy to succeed in preventing a majority project from citizenship. Hannah Arendt explains it perfectly when she says that the guarantee of the right to have rights based on the existence of laws protecting the state of citizenship with its freedom of thought, expression, assembly and association, and also, with the same importance, belonging to a political community formed for a public space, for a group of citizen networks with civic habits that conform to a civic fabric capable of providing protection and guarantee to the exercise of these rights. That is to say, there is not enough legality to acquire certain rights, but it can be guaranteed in the measure that there is a civic fabric in a political framework that favors it, and this is partly our job as parliamentarians. This, in fact... this should be our duet as parliamentarians. I'm done. I ended up inviting the whole chamber to the magnificent debate of democracy, to listen to the people's voice. I invite you to defend parliamentarianism and the right of political representation. Stop pursuing the debate, the vote and the compliment of the electoral commitments. And I remember, and I haven't forgotten: democracy, justice and human rights will always win. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.144.0	The Ple is suspected up to two-quarters of the late four. Thank you. [[The session is suspended at two-quarters due from the middle and four minutes and is resumed at two-quarters from four of the late and four minutes. He chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by first and second vice-presidents and secretaries first, second and third. Attend the table the major and the late Anna Casas and Gregory.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.145.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Let us continue with the debate, with the interventions of representatives of parliamentary groups and sub-groups, to fix their position, for a maximum of fifteen minutes per group and seven minutes and a half for the sub-groups. In the first place has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the Inés Arrimadas. When he wants to.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.146.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, I'm going to respond to your intervention before I eat. I will begin by responding to the two arguments that you have improvised before reading your writing. You have arrived here, and the first of the improvised arguments has been that the President should have interrupted me, the President of Parliament, because I was not exactly following the title of the debate. In fact, you have asked the lawyers to intervene and to tell Mr Torrent that I should have been interrupted. First of all, the title of this debate – listen well – is: « blow to democracy started on 6 and 7 September, which is exactly what I have been talking about throughout my speech. But the most important thing is not this, but you, those who say that in Parliament you can talk about everything, those who say that here you can abolish the monarchy, you can vote to see who has to go out or go into jail, how the Constitution is repealed..., those say that we cannot deviate from the title of the debate a_millimeter, in an intervention, which you have not understood. Do you realize the absurdity of this argument, Mr. Torra? But it is that, to finish it, once you have stopped improvising, Mr Torra, and started reading the speech, it turns out that you read the speech and the 6th and the 7th because you speak very little; most talk about other things. I argue a little... I'd say that's absurd. But the second idea that Mr. Torra has improvised before he began to read his writing: his indignation at the lawsuit. We have announced that we are going to file a complaint, because you are encouraging the CDRs and are not protecting the rights of Catalans. And Mr. Torra was very outraged: "How can you file complaints? They're judicializing politics. We would never do that... Mr. Torra, that you have filed complaints in the last few weeks to five people! You, yourself, personally! [[Greetings.]] The first decision that Mr. Torra made when he was president: to file a lawsuit against Rajoy and Mrs. Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría, for not allowing them to run away from justice in the Government of the Generalitat. But that lawsuit, as is Mr. Torra's, is fine. Second complaint: Mr Bono, for insulting him, because, of course, Mr Torra cannot be insulted. The third: Mr. Pablo Casado. But do you know who you've filed a complaint with, Mr. Torra? To our candidate on the board of Andalusia, Mr. Juan Marín! We've been sued by you! , because in addition – attention – Mr Juan Marín has said what the three main parties of the European Parliament say, which is that his articles are racist and xenophobic. But you have very fine skin! A gentleman who writes that the Citizens and the PP are unbearable things, that there are wild beasts... is that you have very fine skin on you. Because most of these complaints are about personal insults to the president. But, by the way, I don't know if you know one thing: do you know that the last of the complaints you have filed..., I don't know if the last or the penultimate – as it presents so many... – you know that we will all pay it? Do you know that Mr. Torra has filed the lawsuit against Juan Marín, against our candidate for the Andalusian Junta, and is going to make us pay all Catalans, using the legal service of the Generalitat de Catalunya? That is to say that these citizens, that the Catalans who have been insulted by Mr Torra, calling him « mad beasts, who are not Catalans but Spaniards born in Catalonia or who are unbearable things are going to end up paying the lawsuit that Mr Torra puts on whom he denounces that Mr Torra has said these things. We're in a situation, already, which is that, come on... not kafkiana, next. What are you going to ask, too, of the Attorneys of the Generalitat, to make the statement of rent, Mr. Torra? [[Greetings.]] That we're gonna have to pay all of us, too, or what? These were the two arguments Mr. Torra improvised before reading the writing. No wonder you shut down, when you can, the plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia, because it's cloth. We begin with his written part, with his written speech. Mr Torra reaffirmed himself on 6 and 7 September and in everything that came next. He did not make self-criticism, he did not say: "Well, maybe this was not managed well. No, no, no, it's reaffirmed, point by point. Moreover, I have just seen – it is that I do not lose the ability to surprise myself, I am sorry – the official account of the Generalitat de Catalunya. He just tweeted, saying: "On September 6th and 7th, we saw a minority – it's about us, huh? "It was intended to use all the reasons of the Rules, together with the constant judicial threat, to prevent debate and approval of validated democratic warrants. I mean, he complains that we're trying to stop him! Not that they did anything wrong, on the 6th and 7th, but, let's see, that we don't let ourselves be, that we resist, that we try to prevent it. This is being put on by Mr Torra, the Government of the Generalitat, today. That there are people prosecuted for everything that happened those days and days later. But you, really, have a problem with the reality of Catalans, but with the reality of the things that you do yourself. For example, filing complaints. He is outraged to file complaints, but if you have filed them! You have a reality problem, even with what you do yourself. But I hope that Mr Sánchez is seeing this debate, because Mr Torra has reaffirmed himself in everything they have done. It has validated the Law on Legal Transition, it has recognized a law as valid, it has defended how it was adopted and it has said that it has defended the content of the Law on Transition. The Transitional Law, which said that you were going to appoint the judges to your finger, which left between the sword and the wall to the officials, which gave impunity to the members of the government. All this... Mr. Torra has come here to reaffirm himself. And then you're surprised what's going on? Are these gentlemen surprised at what's going on? And it is also that you show, no longer little respect for the democratic system, because that is obvious, but a lack of knowledge about the democratic system... You confuse here the parliamentary reforms that are made of a law, that is, the reforms that are made within a legislative power, with judicial control, then, that the judicial power of laws can do... It is that the process is the explanation of the obvious, from constitutionalism: that you cannot skip the laws, that we too are Catalans, that justice can go against politicians when you skip the laws... But if they are obvious things! You in the government, questioning these very elementary things, are a public danger, are a real public danger. Then you are outraged because you cannot carry out an election program. Well, they'll be able to keep it, if it's legal. If the CUP governs a municipality and says that it wants to expropriate the property of all companies, it will be able to do so if it can do so legally; if not, it will not be able to do so, however much they have put it on their electoral agenda. Do you understand or not? Do you understand that politicians, in order to fulfill what they say, will have to be legal, right? Will it be legal? Or not? Or can the CUP, in the municipalities where it governs, do what they want? Can you force a minimum wage of three thousand euros to be paid in your municipality? Because he's coming on his election program. Can He Expropriate? Can you throw out the people who have voted Citizens, if they want to do so? Because, listen, it's because these gentlemen put it on their election program. Well, it'll be if it's legal. We are here explaining the obvious and, above all, we are in the hands of people who do not know the obvious, do not respect the obvious, it is a public danger, you are a public danger. And you say that your comrades are in prison for your ideas. They are not for their ideas: they are for their actions. Or do you claim that being a politician gives you reason or impunity to do what you want? Because Mr. Torra was outraged: "There are politicians in prison. Well, if they do illegal things, they'll have to go to prison, like the rest of the citizens. Or are you, whether you are politicians or rulers or famous, no matter how much you do, unable to go to prison? Well, they'll have to go to prison if the judges say so and the laws have been blown. Really, is it so hard to understand this? How can we be in the hands of a man who is alien to this democratic reality? How can we be in the hands of a man above us who makes a mockery of us because the 6th and 7th resist, we try to stop him? It's just that we're in the hands of these gentlemen. This is a public danger. Mr Sánchez has to see this debate. Then Mr Sánchez : "Yes, no, dialogue... uf! , the strategy of appeasement has borne some fruit, come on, spectacular. Let's see the Fridays too, the fruits of appeasement. We need protection, protection before these gentlemen. In your speech, neither in the first improvised part, nor in the writing, you have referred in no way to the Catalan non-independenceists, Mr Torra. That the non-independence Catalans do not have to go through the ring of their absolutely illegal policies. We're not going to do it, we're not going to give up, we're not going to shut up, have it very much in mind. You are not going to live in that Catalonia where constitutionalism does not exist. You are not going to make that Catalonia in the Chamber come true with half of the political debate expelled, you are not going to get it. But we, of course, are very concerned, because the government's laundering of these gentlemen is tremendous. My reference in the debate to violence: you have again been unable to condemn the violent attacks that are suffering non-independent entities. We, I insist, say again..., do not know if I set the example before, but I absolutely condemn the fascist attack suffered by the Delegation of the Government of the Generalitat in Madrid, in Blanquerna, we condemn it. Fascist attack, isn't it? We'll agree, won't we? Why don't you condemn the fascist attack by the Arrans and the CDRs to try to prevent an act against us with Valls and Albert Rivera? Why don't you do the same? What is it: a layer..., the « stellate is a layer that removes fascism from you, or what is it like? Is he a protector? Is a person doing the same thing, if he wears a stellate, no longer a fascist? A person suffering from violence, if he is not an independentist, is already well, nothing happens because they are violently attacked? What do you have to say, Mr. Torra, about what is going on in college with the S'ha Afinat collective? Have you seen the images, the death threats? "We will take your pistols and give you two shots to the head," they said, "with forgiveness." This has to be condemned, doesn't it? Or isn't it fascism? Gentlemen of the CUP, isn't this fascism? Going to threaten to give two shots to some kids who are doing an act with their prior request for permission to college, isn't that fascism? Or is it fascism? Because it's either nothing fascism or it's everything. But here all those who commit violent acts are fascists and all those who suffer violent acts of these characteristics are victims. So, here, against fascism, everyone. Not a step back, not a step back against fascism, not a step back. [[Greetings.]] I think of the Catalan families who are thinking about what is going to happen to them on Friday, every day: « Will the CDRs cut the road today? « Will they let me take the EVA today? « Will I miss the plane I have bought for many months to go see my family? « Will I lose my long - saved vacation savings to go with my family? This is what many families are asking themselves right now in Catalonia, but what else it gives you. The officials: "Can I go to work? " Will I be able to take my child to school? Or, worse: "Can I pick up my kid from school later, if I can quit? " Will these men from the streets always be ours, using the streets to me, who am not an independentist? Is that what many families are asking themselves, or do they not exist, these families? There will be people who are looking forward to Friday, to participate in all those illegal acts that you are convoking, but there are many others who are worried about Friday. What has the Government done? Nothing – nothing. And I don't see Mr. Buch here, but I'd like Mr. Buch to be here. Because here we can have a serious problem, and here all of you will be responsible, each and every member of the government. They're collegiate decisions. And Mr. Buch, as head of the bodies and security forces in Catalonia, what are you doing here? I mean, what makes you not here, Mr. Buch? This is a very serious situation. We have at the head of the Generalitat a gentleman who appeals to the Slovenian way; a gentleman who says that there have been no violent acts, because what has happened to him is not violence; a gentleman who says that the CoRs, therefore, have the right to protest and so on, but then they say that filing a complaint or that 155 is threatening. I mean, the violence of the CDRs isn't a threat, is it? The threat is a lawsuit or 155. Look, that said TV3 very well the other day – to me this made me very funny – it's a summary of the Frequently Asked Questions program, okay? He says: "This evening the program talks about various themes – various, eh? , attention– « as the waves of fame, the judgment for October 1, the Slovenian way, the threat of 155, the crisis to the Mossos d'Esquadra– crisis, eh? , not decisions and questions by the government, is crisis – and the CDRs. That is, the threat of 155 and then the CDRs. Who are we in the hands of? In whose hands is the Government of Spain leaving us? It's just this, yeah, it's very serious. I'm just telling you, Mr. Torra, we're not gonna shut up, we're not gonna disappear, we're not gonna kneel, we're not gonna bleach them. We will continue here, defending a Catalonia for all, defending all Catalans who are afraid of you in the government, and of course defending our rights where we need, in the institutions, in Parliament, in any corner of Catalonia or in the courts, to join the five complaints that you have filed with which we are going to present to you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.147.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr. Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.148.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very honourable President of the Generality, fortunately, the format of this debate will then bring back proposals for a resolution; it is to say that some proposals will have to be made that allow us to move forward. I wanted to start today, all the time, when this night we've had broken and painted glass, but we're still determined, compromised with the dial. However, from all angles, we will be allowed, in the first place, to retain a small and symbolic tribute to all those people, groups and parties who defend their respective opinions and political positions in a scrupulously democratic way; to those people, groups and parties who are so sure of their reasons that they have never tried to boycott the acts of other formations, who have never dedicated themselves to brutish couples and locals, who have never committed an aggression, who have never committed any act of intimidation or rape towards those who do not share their positions; people, groups and parties who respect people, groups and parties who do not think like them, and who know that they only respect for coexistence and strengthen democracy. [[Greetings.]] And I want to set them an example. I don't remember now whether it was diluns or dimarts, I went to make a political act of my party to Sant Just Desvern. At the entrance of that act a couple of people were carrying signs indicating people who are in prison or who are alienating it, with an absolutely respectful attitude, but want to express a concern. I went into this act and the first thing I said was to thank the position of those people who wanted to share with us their patience, their thinking, but they had done it in an absolutely scrupulous way, with respect for the act of a political formation that intended, in this case, to present a candidate. It is perfectly possible to make the rights compatible at the free expression, opinion and manifestation of one another. This doesn't have to be in any case the injury of one's or another's rights, and less yet a rape. And now, yes, I'm starting with the debate that brings us here today. And it is a debate, indeed, about the parliamentary sessions of 6 and 7 September of last year, which, from our point of view, has been the most important mistake made by a Catalan institution since 1977. It was the day when, fearlessly, but fully aware, our institutions of self-government were placed out of the law, with fateful consequences for self-government, for everyone, in particular, so that at these times they have a pending judgment. Look, Mr. President, I heard your explanation this morning and I have to recognize one thing: you weren't there, and so I'm sure you should follow events with some interest, but maybe you don't master everything that happened in your detail. And, maybe, if we're not going to lose the details, we need to go to the fertilizer. The fertilizer is that on the 6th and 7th of September the independenceist majority decided to claim the Constitution and the Statute, and did so – separate regulatory articles. That's what happened, from our point of view. Without the House's letters, without the Council of State Guarantees, the Parliament decided to approve some laws which were manifestly illegal in order to call for an illegal reference and to declare illegal independence. That's what happened. And we must remember that this opened up a whole period of very convulsive activity. The former Government of Spain to avoid the celebration of the October 1 referendum ordered disproportionate police charges against which our group was protesting the same day. On all sides, and without wanting to enter into a terminological discussion, which may be absurd, the 6th and 7th of September it is obvious that here they took decisions aimed at leaving the Statute and the Constitution unenforceable with the objective of separating Catalonia from the rest of Spain, with the aim of preventing the territorial integrity of Spain and dismembering the rights of the Catalan and Spanish citizens. I want to remind you, sometimes, that I warned you, personally and on behalf of my group, from this Faristol, against the fear of placing Catalan institutions outside the law. I had to make a pass and I found the first one, talking to President Mas, then, dated as far as September 16, 2014. I said to him: "To do things well – we remember that the President But he liked the terminology very much" we do things well, "we do well, say –, to do things well we must always keep ourselves in the democratic framework of the state of law, the main obligation of public institutions and of all governments. That's what we give them by 2014. 2015 was the first warning, I believe, of the problem that came to light, when Parliament approved it on 9 November, we were before and all the new legislature, but before the investiture debate of President Mas, of the second debate, a resolution was made that was said: "Let's start the process with independence. Then we say: "The approval of this proposal, in placing the Catalan institutions out of the law, will harm us all hard, starting for those who intend to apply it a time when the Constitutional Court has suspected it first and cancelled it later, as will happen with complete and absolute certainty. In that speech I asked them, to you, and I asked myself loudly: "Have you thought about the costs and consequences of placing Catalan institutions outside the law? And he said: "I am saying this because some of these costs and consequences do not only charge on you, but can charge on the city council. November 9, 2015. Three days later, it was already the second session of President Mas's failed investment debate, of President Mas's second investiture, and I said, "Ecculti'm, even though he is president in office, asks him not to perform any action related to the resolution, which had been approved on 9 November and which two days later had been suspended for the Constitutional Court. President Puigdemont, I also warned him in his investiture debate with words that I think they were strong: "You do not have the right to place institutions out of the law. The majority who got them qualified to rule but not to pursue express independence and less yet if they want to do so because of the lack of awareness of legality. The February of 2017 also told President Puigdemont: "Don't take false rules that don't take place or bring to court what should be a matter to resolve in the political arena. And he went on to say: "Even though you consider that the PP government does not want or will want to talk about it, it does not enable you to skip the law. And yet: "If you don't find alternatives to disobedience or legality, if you don't see the color of doing things in another way, you end up with this sterilized legislature and call for elections because Catalans can decide the way forward and this Parliament can choose another president. February 2017. And then we actually arrive at the September 6th session. A session in which he said to them: "A process that is not legal or does not have place or will have very negative consequences for people and the same institutions. And it doesn't work out how this process works. We were told unanimously by the Catalonia State Guarantee Board. Many, but among them the first, of the recommendations of the Venice Commission, of the Council of Europe. Because this agreement, it is not this law, it is not for the Constitution nor for a law in accordance with the Constitution. And he said to them: "The first legality with which you fall is Catalan. To reform the Statute as a minimum support of two thirds of the Parliament, and you want to liquidate it with an absolute majority. And I ended my intervention by saying: "We can't donate a project that incorporates the germ of the division and that situates the institutions that are from all outside the law. And it is fair to recall in that debate the magnificient interventions of Joan Coscubiela and Lluís Rabell that, from different positions to ours, they clearly denounced what was considered to be an abuse of the rights of the deputies and of the same sense of the parliamentary work of this chamber. But, it is true, you have decided to raise the rights of the Members of the Opposition, to break with, to breach the Rules, to disregard the councils of the electorate, the reports of the Guarantee Board, the resolutions of the Constitutional Court and to flagrantly violate the Statute and the Constitution. And, I'm sorry, what could go wrong? So everything, everything went wrong. And the problem wasn't emergency processing. The problem wasn't the one reading. Let's say so because you can hear us all: you acted in the only way that allowed them to prevent the chamber from formally knowing an opinion of the Board of State Guarantees. That's what you wanted. They were right, because when the Council of State Guarantees did not issue an opinion, because it had not been asked to do so, but it did evacuate a report, he said that, for all intents and purposes, everything you intended to do in those plenary sessions did not conform to the law. And, therefore, what better than trying to stop who has to tell us that what we do is wrong not to say it. That's what they tried. And what could go wrong? So all: judicial sequelae, institutional intervention, an important wound in Catalan society, the weakening of the economy, an international no-recognition, which certainly denied the illusory predictions of the government. And can anyone ask, at these heights, what you've heard about it today? Home, I think you've heard when the Slovenian road is still being called, when you're looking for solutions that I don't know if I say they're Balkan – and it'll allow me to joke – or volcanic. Did you hear about that? Home, for us, yes, if this avoids us falling back into that mistake. I've said it twenty times a thousand times: we can't compromise it if we don't make mistakes, but we should compromise not to repeat the same mistakes. There is no unilateral and legal solution. We will only find a way out of this atzucac through a process of dialogue, negotiation and pact, and if we recognize that it would be convenient, before anything else, to achieve a broad consensus among the Catalan political forces represented in Parliament. And I know, President, that you often talk about this 80_per_cent or a triple 80_per_cent. I don't want to demeritate it, but we need two thirds, at least two thirds of this room, not 80 percent of this one, to move forward, and we don't have it. If the one we claim, or the one some claim..., and we could add to some measure, to a change in our institutional system, we need, as a minimum, the support of two-thirds of the members of this chamber. But we would be wrong, and it seems to me that I have said it, if this should only serve as a reminder of past mistakes – that, moreover, we have different opinions about respect – or to intersperse toilets. And from our point of view it would go very well if this debate were to launch some proposals that allow, if not to overcome the sugar, at least, to start talking about how to do it. Look, we think we have a society divided around independence, but not fractured. And this depends, that it does not arrive at this fracture, on the ability of the political forces to lay bridges in tales to dig trenches. And this is the sense of our intervention and of the motions for resolutions that we will present. We want to regain respect and coexistence in society, beginning to condemn all vandalism, all aggression, all threats, all intimidation, and ensure pluralism in public space and the neutrality of institutions. The second question is: we want to ensure respect for legality and the current institutional framework, as well as the mechanisms and majorities established for its reform. Therefore, no one thinks that claiming respect for the institutional framework does not mean a good willingness to modify it, but through established mechanisms and majorities. Thirdly, we want the institutions to be unblocked, preventing them from eroding through the creation of parallel bodies and re-establishing some very important, broken consensus and, if possible, encouraging consensus. Only the dialog, the negotiation and the pact will help us to pull forward. I, from our point of view, neither immobilism, nor re-centralisation, nor rupture are transitable paths. And that is why we believe that it will be necessary to promote the self-government of Catalonia, its strength and the federalization of Spain and Europe. And finally, as we say, we also believe that we should take advantage of the existence of a Spanish government that is dialogueal and progressive in order to resolve the outstanding problems in an agreed way, in a competitive, financial, cultural or investment and infrastructure management manner. President, there is a misconception in broad sectors, in opposite sectors of the chamber. Look, the Spanish Constitution is not just the monarchy, the unit of the State and 155. And that sometimes seems to be the view of the independenceists, but also some sectors, we would say, of absolute opposition. I invite you to read, when you have time, articles 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25 of the Constitution, so that it is not for those who attack it tomorrow to find precisely in the Constitution the defense of their rights. And this, sadly, for the way we're carrying, I'm afraid it could be that way. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I finish, if I may, the president of the chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.149.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.150.0	Yes; do I or don't I? Yeah? Excuse me. President, don't say that going to the Constitutional Court is trying to boycott or stick to the wheels. We'll always defend who's going to the Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.151.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.152.0	...in defense of your rights. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.153.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.154.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Before I begin in this monographic plenary debate, I would like to make a statement. And a saying that I believe that the 6th and 7th of September 2017 were a mistake, that our rights were violated as Members and as Members, that the unilateral path proved to be unsuccessful, that it is already good with events and Slovenian lives, that even all the Prime Minister of Slovenia has commented on it, Mr. Torra, that no comparison is made, because there is no possible parallelism. But, unfortunately, this should not prevent us from giving support to all people who are first-person patenting the justice of politics, especially political prisoners and media, and, above all, those who are now in the middle of fame. And that's why I wanted to send these people who are in this extreme situation a hug from the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Because despite the political and ideological differences that we have, the defence of human rights is the least essential thing to start from. And that's why we offer, and we also demand, to all the deputies of this chamber, politics, humanity and empathy before so much electoralism, revenge and sectarianism. Look, it's been more than a year since the plenary on September 6th and 7th. At that time, the majority of the parliament of the independence bloc failed all the legislation in force and transgressed a part of the rights, the deputies and the deputies of this chamber, and, therefore, also of our representatives. But, besides, they did pull out some laws that we consider illegitimate and that they have not been effective. They brought forward a law of reference which was not granted to the State, which did not have international recognition and which therefore did not have sufficient guarantees. Because October 1st was a historic day for Catalonia, but it's not the reference that Catalonia deserves, it's not the reference that Catalonia needs. And they also approved some laws of disconnection that gave place to a legal order that did not comply with European democratic standards, but which mainly established the foundations of the unilateral way, which proved to be unsuccessful, because it left half the people of Catalonia behind. I don't think we should be talking about the 6th and 7th of September 2017. I'd love to be here on September 6 and 7, 2019, 2020 and 2021, because I think this would be the way to weave new alliances that allow us to get out of the national blockade that we are patenting in Catalonia, and also to write a change agenda that puts 99_percent of people in the center. An agenda that must give a democratic solution to the national conflict, and it must also solve the main fracture that Catalan society has, which is nothing other than inequality. An inequality that is the result of the policies of detail and austerity that we have suffered during a decade and that also, I mean, the government itself is not resolving and that, moreover, in earlier times, in many cases, has been an actor and has also been an accomplice. But as we are celebrating the Plea of 6 and 7 September 2017, since we are here, let's take advantage of it, we see what we can learn to not repeat the same mistakes. Because the main risk we have right now is denying that reality, chronicling the conflict and continuing to insist on any of the lives that have been failed. I don't think we'll get any different results if we keep doing the exact same thing. The fundamental problem that Catalonia has seen now stems from the judicialization of the conflict. The cremated land policy launched by the People's Party of the Government of the State led to permanent hardships not to address the situation in a political way. And the ultimate consequence of that is to apply 155 days a day, day a day, and there are groups that are wishing and screwing hands because it's the only proposal they have for Catalonia. That is to say, the only thing they want is to intervene in Catalonia's self-government and to secretate our institutions, those which were so hard to win and which, let's remember, did not come from the pact of 78, but came from the Second Republic. And here they will always find us, defending the Catalan institutions and our self-government with firmness and also through progressive and fraternal alliances with Catalonia, but also with the rest of the people of the State. Because if we think we can keep out of state dynamics, we're very wrong. Catalonia will only be able to get out of this blockade if we get out of the democratic backwardness that is living in Spain, from the rift of rights and freedoms that are living in Spain and that does not only attack Catalonia's independence, but also goes against anyone who is now questioning the rule. And I also want to insist, before the judicialization of politics and the politicization that we are seeing in the judicial dome: the worst answer that we can give from Catalonia is the unilateral way; a way that is shown to be powerless and disconnected from Catalan reality. The unilateral way is that the majorities of October 1 and 3, and it goes back to being without enough support to make real changes. With the unilateral declaration of independence they miscalculated the reactions and the costs. It was shown that there was no strategy or strategy to be able to pull forward. There was too much truth in myths and too much silence. And lastly, the last thing Catalonia has to live again in this situation of democratic exceptionality is more gesticulation and new occurrences. "What we need is less gesticulation and more efficiency. And that's not my phrase, and I'm sure there are people in this room that sounds like it. Therefore, if you know who this phrase is, please make it effective. Because Catalonia is a very plural society and, without great agreement or real dialogue or consensus, we will not be able to get out of the blockade we find ourselves in. Catalonia we have to start with two realities. The first is the general consensus that there is around that Catalonia as a political subject must be able to decide freely its future. And that can only be done with democracy, exampling democracy. And the second reality we have to go from is the need for social justice as a response to a crisis that we all know has been a scam. After a decade of detail and austerity policies, those who have not yet understood that the challenges of this country go through a joint response to social needs and also national needs are still not fully understood. Because the people of Catalonia have the right to be like that, but they also have the right to some decent living conditions, they have the right to two things: to be like that and some decent living conditions. On occasions some parties have ruled Catalonia in that immense wave of outrage against the policies of the People's Party. Still, I also want to remind you, that afterwards they did not want to vote in favour of the motion of censure to make out Mariano Rajoy of the Moncloa. And also, as I say, they have frozen or anesthetized certain areas of debate because they were counter-productive to the independence process. "Perhaps it would be time to start talking a little bit about everything like the symptoms of democratic maturity. And this sentence isn't mine, and I'm sure there are a few who know who it is, too. Some have been able to justify antisocial assumptions and political alliances impossible for the exceptionality of the moment, and to a good extent have squandered a share of the capital of democratic, peaceful and multiplicity mobilizations. Now we find ourselves with independence parties without full road and from here comes the fragmentation of independence and its current disorientation. That's why we demand three things. We ask for value to recognize errors, intelligence to not repeat them and alliances to be able to set up nine majorities in Catalonia that could never be defined in terms of identity. That is why I have to say, Mr. Torra, if you do not rectify, if you do not stop donating bands, you will be remembered as the President of the Generality. And I personally don't want to say these things to him, but he's not leaving us any more. Please stop insisting on lives that are already failing, because I've said it before: if they want to change reality, we can't make the same mistakes they made in the past again. You can't talk about last resort and ask for a dial. You can't talk about the unilateral way and then ask for agreements. It's just that everything can't be said, it can't say one thing, it can't say another. Catalonia has a different society and a president of the Generalitat cannot be disconnected from reality and stop looking at the aspirations of the small people of Catalonia, because even though we do not think like you, we are also Catalans. We are at a time when, as well as the exceptional situation that we suffer and that we have denounced, new opportunities for dialogue are opening up. I don't think it's fair to say that right now we're like a year ago, or two years ago, or three years ago. Therefore, what we need to do is, with intelligence, to try to build new progressive, democratic alliances, which continue to offer a new future, a new democratic horizon for our country with loyalty to a new political agreement. It's likely that you're just vulgar to be the president of a band. But if that's the way it is, it would be good if you recognized it and didn't leave it. Because you're so disconnected from Catalonia and your government that you told us this morning. You think they've put forward a proposal for assumptions. They have not put forward any proposed assumptions. I have to make it clear: they have not put forward any proposals for assumptions! I don't know if he's been fooled, whether he's lied to us or not he knows what a presupposition proposal is, that I think he does. So, I don't know which of the three scenes I'm more concerned about. They have not put forward any proposed assumptions. You know that we have beaten this government like the Torra-Aragonese government, and we have made it very aware of what we have done. We did it because the two political forces, the two representatives of the two political forces have an important weight in the execution. Now, while Mr. Torra gives his face, we believe that Mr. Aragones is not doing so, and that when difficult times come, controversial issues, the Republican Left tends to fall behind Mr. Torra. And I'm asking the lords and the lords of the Republican Left, and in particular you, Mr. Aragones, that we've already had enough ambiguity and calculation at the end. It's not just worth saying that his way is Scotland. No, it's not, it's more determination and it's more courage. To tell the truth and try to build new alliances that serve to build a new social majority in Catalonia. A social majority that has to bet for a Catalonia that has to be feminist, ecological and social, that also has to bet for a referendum that continues to be granted, and that also has to bet for an anti-repressive front. They must be made clear: either they are the new convergence of the 21st century, and this means that they play one thing in Madrid and another thing in Catalonia, or to be a left-wing force that helps to form a new block of progress and in defense of the lower ones. I insist: they have not put forward any proposals for assumptions, and less a social proposal, so do not tell the truth either helps at the time to set up these new alliances that Catalonia needs. And now I want to address Mrs. Arrimadas. Your party won the last election in Catalonia, and how did it serve the country, this million votes? How did you put in the service of the country the fact that you followed the first opposition force in the Parliament of Catalonia? We believe that it has not served for anything, that it is not the cover of leadership or building, that it is not the cover of dialogue. And you're talking for a while; no, you're talking for a while to democracy, and that's not just an irresponsibility, it's just that he doesn't hold himself intellectually – even Mr. Zapatero has said so. I want to demand them, for the country, but also for its voters, that we remain brave and that they come to lower the whole, to dialogue and try to reach agreements to rebuild. It doesn't feel, it doesn't feel that the most voted force in some elections to the Parliament of Catalonia follows the most useless force. Yesterday it was the first day – and I must admit – that I listened to them say something constructive for Catalonia to the specific plenary of childhood, but today, in his intervention, he has carried it back. And don't tell me that they're useful, because apart from sharing with the PDECAT and with the Republican Left the "walks for the directions of TV3 and Catalunya Radio," you're not able to get along with anyone, and I think we don't understand that and your voters don't have to tell you that either. So let them not be able to dialogue, but they are able to practice the « chiringuitism» – this word which I am fascinated and which you so much like and so much say – is, therefore, incomprehensible. Therefore, we ask you to follow, as a minimum, a responsible right, which is homologable to Europe, which recognises the diversity of our country and also of the State, and which is bound to move away from the extreme right. Because whitewashing Vox's speech in the campaign and being with European liberals is an indomitable contradiction that even has been told by Brussels. It does not follow the tight path to the extreme right proposed by Vox, which only ends with party illegalizations, with restrictions on rights and freedoms and which suppose the end of a shared democratic horizon. So, less quarrels and more politics: less quarrels and more politics. And, for what he does to Mr. Iceta, he also wanted to talk about you. I want to appeal to the founding principles of your party, to Catalanism, to Republicanism and to democracy as a form of resolution of social conflicts. They are more necessary than ever to advance towards a new republican Catalonia. But, Mr. Iceta, when I listen to some PSOE barons making certain speeches, I have to say that I'm in for it. García Page demanding the prohibition of parties, Lamban agitating antiticatalanism one day and the other... So stop thinking about the party and do the favor of thinking about the country and shutting them down. We're in a country disjunctive right now. The only alternative to building a new country is the new progressive and democratic alliances, and always from realism and hope. Realism and hope. We need a Republican Catalonia, which will only be possible if we stop looking at Slovenia and look at the rest of the people of the State. A republican Catalonia that we will build between all of the dialog and the broad and progressive agreements, and a republican Catalonia will be the one in which no one lacks anything to have a dignified life. We need to offer a horizon of future for the majority of Catalan society and that is why we can only advance from the conquests of our great people and also from the future of progressive Catalanism. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.155.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the return of the deputy Natialia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.156.0	Good afternoon. « – Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word? – Mrs Gabriel, why ask me the word? – Thank you, President, both Members said, and both called for the point of debate and approval of the proposal for a self-determination reference law under Article 81.3 to be placed on the agenda. "Thank you, Mrs. Rovira," said President Carme Forcadell. « – Thank you, Mrs Gabriel. – Thank you, President. Thank you to all three, to Carmel, to Martha and to dear Anna, to ask you, so and anime in September, to October and every day from exile and from unjust imprisonment. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Also, thanks to the very worthy work that those days 6 and 7 of September made the members of the Bureau of Parliament, in Joan Josep Nuet, Ramona Barrufet, Anna Simó and Lluís Guinó. Also in Lluís Corominas. "Has the word, it was a repeated phrase in this plenary: donate the word – the word. The philosopher Xavier Antich wrote in 2015 that "in any way, in any way, to engage or negotiate, to give the word is to establish an agreement that compromises us, without even writing it, because it has more strength, and binds us more than a notarial document. But what do you mean, donate the word? That maybe the word can donate? Of course I do. On September 6th and 7th, the President of this Parliament gave the word. The Plenari gave the people a word. This Parliament began by gathering the word expressed on the street for the people, for the people, and returned it to obey it, obeying the will of the people to decide, obeying the will of the people to self-determine us, obeying the will of the people to govern us, to exercise full sovereignty, national, food, economic, cultural and residential. And the will to do it further beyond the wall of incompetence. And while some deny and deny the word, others donate and exercise it without permission, from a deeply democratic compromise. Give the word, so simple and so complex at the same time. That day we gave the word to sovereignist companies that someone wanted to silence. That day we saw the dignity to climb the stairs with not slow but firm of Maria Angels Martínez. We don't have enough time to explain the long and resilient path of a people determined to take the word even though it's still denied. A determined town that's always gone before the institutions. We will sum it up, as we have done many times before, with the sight and memory of historian Eva Serra, in relation to the history of our country. We have said this many times: "The story of this country is not the story of some powerful, but the story of some resisting, with silent, anonymous and discreet disobediences, with constant complicity, like the social strategy of the lower classes, and also like the strategy of national liberation. From the Arenys de Munt to the 1st of October, we would do it again and again do it as often as possible, because this country, lords of Ciutadans, will be what its people want it to be. Those days we called the October 1st Referendum, and it was done disobediently. We made sure that yesterday we remembered: that autonomy has become managers of poverty, of the privatization of public services, of the drainage of public resources to burden private benefits, of the intensification of the double exploitation that we suffer from women, and that, moreover, we remain empty of sovereignty, intervenes for the FLA and for the dictates of the payment of the debt. One day to start over. One day when everything was possible, and, too cruelly, everything was about to be done. We went to sleep in the schools because we didn't want to do anything, we wanted to vote, and we did it thanks to the determination resisted by the silent, anonymous and discreet disobediences of the popular classes. That day we made it possible for the legitimate right to defend the unit of Spain to have a say, because, yes, we will not tire of saying it: the unit of Spain is a legitimate project, which they cannot pretend to impose, for anti-democratic reasons, the false concord of the "Constitution that we have given ourselves among all. That late we found that institutional and social disobedience to the prohibitions of state organs was a key element in ensuring rights, in order to ensure that supporters of independence and those who are not, I insist, quite legitimately, that we should bear in mind. The application of Article 155 and the subsequent undertakings to this act made it clear that the way to national construction and social transformation of the people will not end with a process from law to law. How many times have we told you we don't share this mantra? This idea completely blurs the background of the debate of those days, these days, about the exercise of the right to self-determination. It is a question of struggle for power, of struggle for sovereignty and of mobilization of a people, and not of a legal, legal, or formal question. We have also found that the confluence of people's strength and the involvement of institutions is a formula to guarantee rights; we exercise this formula of success! The unilateral way is not a failed one. The unilateral route opened the doors of the most important general wave in this country, the October 3 wave. Two boxes: 'yes' and 'no'. Two boxes that, at the door of the visit of the Government of the State, resonate with May. A government that carries from Madrid the tax and caspian character that does not represent the Madrid of anti-fessist struggle and solidarity that those days we also felt and that we appreciate. A powerless and complicit government of the only day of democracy that took place in the past year: the dissolution of the legitimate Parliament of Catalonia and the imprisonment of its political leaders. On the 21st of December, one year after those illegitimate elections, the people will come out. The people have to leave, and they will do so in protest. Let's take the word to the street against whom he denies it. We are in protest, because we have buried the chase and claim the right to dissent, the right to freedom of demonstration and the right to say otherwise and clearly that they do not represent us, and that we will remain up and down. Madame Arrimadas: her crystal ball, at the most styling of the Minority Report, does not make us for it. He announces the quarrels: it's good to organize us. But you seem to be threatening, because you don't give us a bit of por, or us or this people! [[Greetings.]] You make politics, you make this success go to the polls that so much claims. And yes, the mayors of the CUP work for social justice, against fascism, but never work to expel anyone, as you do work not to guarantee the rights, for example, of migrants. On the 21st of December, today, we call to mobilize, to lift us up: fem of this divender 21st of December a point of inflection, because the struggle always continues. Join us and raise us to victory, always. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.158.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, I too was quite surprised at the start of Mr Torra's speech. He has solemnly asked us all to give up filing complaints, and he has announced it minutes after filing a complaint against Pablo Casado. Centre gets a little bit, because then you get very angry if someone refers to your balance, but it's just that you put it on a tray. It should also be remembered that very serious things happened on September 6 and 7. And you, implicitly, are ashamed. And the proof of that is that Mr Torra has referred to data from the CEO saying that those plenarys have passed relatively unnoticed in Catalan society, he has failed to say 'less wrong, because, in fact, we must remember him; we must remember him because you know what happened. Those days were revealing because they perfectly reflect and portray their true nature. They consider that their way of breaking is absolutely incompatible with democracy. It's about disobeying the law. It is a matter of deeply disrespecting previous generations who leave us with a democratic legacy. Splendidly the reference to the fact that few Catalans remain among us who voted for the Constitution of 78, as if we did not owe ourselves some generations with others, and, ultimately, it is an amendment to the whole, as we pointed out yesterday in another debate, to the last forty years of our history, which turns out to be the best forty years in the history of Catalonia and the rest of Spain, and which here are intended to sell as the history of a humiliation to Catalonia or a collective failure. That is not only false, but it has a worrying point of immorality. They reveal their true nature even though they are now trying to hide what is between lamentations. You were going to those days... – allow me the colloquial expression –, you were going out of your way. Even though now they're the losers, they're in trouble. My parents taught me to make myself responsible for my actions, the wrongs and the wrongs, never throw the stone and hide the hand. You pretend to make us believe that what you set up those days was a pacifist kumbaià spai and that Spanish demons are chasing you for playing the guitar. No – no. What they did consciously – consciously – was the breaking of the constitutional order in a state of the European Union in the middle of the 21st century, the most serious event on the soil of the Union since its creation. They knew perfectly well what they were doing, it wasn't a melodic guitar splai and hands to hands, no. It was an insurrectional movement, mounted on the back of boga populism, of the dragon of boga populism in Europe. Less victimism, therefore – less victimism. Honestly, we are still waiting for someone of you who, firmly, being of one piece, assumes his responsibilities and says aloud: "We try to declare Catalonia's independence by braves, unilaterally, we fail to comply with a lot of laws – to see which are crimes and which are not. We did it, and we take responsibility. Well, no. They're trying to hold us responsible. They intend to throw people at us for the mistakes you made. Look, if I had committed a crime of that nature, I would never accuse you that my daughters had their father in prison because of you. Never – never. Make it clear. Look, we have nothing to be ashamed of. Those days we did politics, which allowed us, by the way, because they trampled on our rights. The people who are in jail today are because of their personal and intimate decisions, not because of ours. It's worth manipulating feelings and trying to throw people at us. We are not going to tolerate it either intellectually or in any way, which is very clear. On the 6th and 7th, you also passed the Transitional Act, the anti-democratic artifact that defined a kind of regime and liberal plenipotentiary caudillo. It makes me very funny when you talk about Turkey, and you say that Spain has become Turkey. Look, there's been a motion of censure in Spain. The legislative power, showing the balances of a perfect democracy..., I obviously did not agree with that motion of censure, but dismisses the president of the government. Do you imagine that in Turkey, with Erdoğan, today? No, no, In fact, the legislative reforms that drive Vladimir Putin or Erdoğan are identical to their Transitional Law; check whether they have time and feel like it. They are identical, because what they set up is an unlimited capacity without any counterweight to the executive power, which is able to choose everything and nobody can control it. That was the figure you defined in the Transitional Law. It happens to them exactly the same with referendums as much as they defend it. This is not about giving democracy cards. We have the right to explain in strictly democratic terms why we believe that referendums are not good for everything. Look, there is a basic norm in representative democracy, and here we are in representative democracy, and it is that representative democracy can be complemented by plebiscite democracy; but when it is replaced – replaced – it ends up becoming something that they call it "organic democracy but in reality it is an authoritarian system. Therefore, deciding the future of a system by the mood of one day in a referendum brings crisis in democracy. In recent years, there have been three referendums in Europe that are in line with these characteristics. Three/ four: that of Brexit, which had a first episode in Scotland ; that of the European Constitution in France, in 2006, and that of Matteo Renzi in Italy, which ended with Salvini in the government. The one in the European Constitution brought the worst European crisis we are still experiencing, and the consequences of Brexit will still have to be seen. And why does that happen? It happens because when representative democracy is replaced by plebiscite democracy it enters populism, and that is less European Union and it is less democracy. That is precisely why the referendums of this nature are deeply anti-European. Because there is one thing they have to understand, they have to go back, I really say, to the roots and to analyse a little bit the constituent process in the European Union, which defines one thing and is the heritage of the Peace of Westphalia, the borders are in the European Union immobile – immobile –. It is based on that, the European Union. And it is based on that and on the intergovernmental method to protect those because when the constituent parents in the European Union decide the system that should govern us all, they realize that border conflicts are the ones that had brought two world wars. That's why your system always ends up being anti-European. And that's why it ends up causing a European crisis. Finally, in the remaining seconds, I would like to refer to the only positive that those plenary sessions of 6 and 7 September brought. I am very proud to have participated with Rabell, with Coscubiela, with Carrizosa, with Arrimadas, with my partner Xavi García Albiol, with Iceta, with Granados in the defense of democracy. That spirit must not be lost. And I turn directly to the Socialist Party and the commons: let us not lose it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.159.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.160.0	Those who approach populist nationalism end up bursting. So, we recovered the unity we had those days.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.161.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.162.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.163.0	Thank you. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.164.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies, So, we are here today in a monographic debate, a debate, say yes, monographic on the monotheme presented for Ciutadans, right? , forced by Ciutadans, because he's the only one who forces, in fact, Ciutadans, talking about the monotheme, right? , always talk about the same, talk about the same regularly, and when they've already talked about the same enough, so, again, they make a parliamentary initiative to talk about the same. So, like you have the ability, effectively, with your deputies, so, you can force a debate on the monotheme, so, thanks to Ciutadans we debate intensively on the monotheme. But I have to tell them, too, that I was surprised at the low level. [[remorse of the voice]] And I have to recognize it. Because I was really hoping for something, let's just stare, something new, right? Something new, some, some, some, some proposal, some revision, I don't know, of what happened, some different thing, but they followed the greatest hits, diguessim, of Ciutadans, didn't they? That's a little bit of a rattled record they used to do, those tapes from the White and Black Mix, isn't it? That there were enough songs to be spent, wasn't there? But they compiled them all one summer and then they put them to us. And you've made this effort, you've actually compiled all the things you've been saying, so, since a year ago, you've put it on one more disc or less and you've been doing it, so you've been bringing it here. Probably with the usual object, right? , what it is to try to generate or hate, try to generate division, try to generate rift, try, therefore, that the debate is probably more than fortunately I think we have, right? I don't know, but I like the power to debate. As long as you fly for the first time to discuss the monotheme, then you can come out here and talk about the monotheme. But, of course, it's like... or it's my feeling, which, I guess, I don't think they have any plans, right? Because they haven't presented a new king, they haven't exposed us absolutely a king. Well, a novelty, that's not new because they don't want to advertise every week, is it? But it is true that, as we have heard today, on the part of Ciutadans, that it is a new demand, in concrete terms, so it seems that for President Torra – I do not know whether it will expand or not, in any case, we will already see it, but in any case, we have known this. It's Ciutadans' new proposal and Congresswoman Sánchez was referring to it, isn't it? In fact, there's one thing that's been neglected on this CD, which is that they didn't say to Matrix, that it's weird because it's one of the tops that you use, but, of course, they've changed from science-fiction film and now they're in Minority Report, right? You already know what's going to happen, you have here, I suppose, some pants on your own and you've been touching things and how it's the same as it is, it's the same as reality, because you're creating a relationship, explaining it, sharing it with the prosecution, with the state institutions and applying it, right? The rajatabla. It's just like what's actually going on, you know there's going to be violence, there's going to be riots, I don't know what, and so we're already filing a lawsuit for what you're going to be selling, right? It's quite – quite – surrealistic. Because, of course, you already know that, don't you? And you share these strategies with the structures of the State and then what's going on – what's going on. And yesterday we saw it also partially in the Supreme Court. Why the prosecutor – prosecutor, huh? , which represents the interests of the State and makes the accusation, says that the statement was published in the Official Gazette of the Government of Catalonia. I'm so wide. I suppose one day you can bring me the Official Diary of the Government of Catalonia and we can prove it, among other things, no longer in case it was published or not, is that it proves a misunderstanding of the parliamentary system quite large, because a motion for a resolution is never published in the official Diary – never. But, well, the Attorney General, who represents the interests of the State, which is a foundational institution, theoretically, for a democratic State, invents things, invents the accusation, invents the evidence, but here nothing happens because how it forms part of the report this invention, how you already know what will happen, how you want to say: "No, no, this crime has happened, and I feel the same as what happened or if happened. I want to condemn, and I don't care what happens between me. For this reason, among other things, you are campaigning against some pardons for a judgment that has not been dictated. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's a good one, huh? Because as you already know what judgment it will dictate, you are campaigning against the indulgence of the judgment it will dictate. Clearly, why, more than you, so they've sentenced us, haven't they? And I think that even the whole Constitution, which they always display with vehemence, says that everyone is innocent until proven contrary. No, but you didn't. « Here all the facts that happened..., serious crimes... That's what we feel every week here, isn't it? That you already know that serious crimes have been committed and have already condemned us, right? But because that's what it is, you're just like what happened and what didn't happen. They're the same as the truth. They're just like the evidence. They're the same... no. You have a report and you will do whatever it is – whatever it is – to impose it. And with that we've seen some, uh, some statements from Mrs. Upstairs this morning, haven't we? , speaking of September 20th, October 3rd with an absolutely distorted and false report, but I understand that it forms part of this report that you have. In short, let's get into the parliamentary debate. We are entering the parliamentary debate on 6 and 7 September, which has been commented on, even though it is quite past, isn't it? Because they did, so, this compilation, they did it with a little more thanks, I have to admit, than Mrs. Montserrat's questions in Congress, but a little bit with the same parliamentary technique, which is to sweep it all up, building better sentences, but sweeping it all up and, come on, we're doing a debate with a whole cocktail of all the things that have gone through our heads. Well, parliamentary debate, so we go into the 6th and 7th, which I think would be defined with a phrase attributed to Voltaire, right? , which said that "I absolutely disagree with what you think, but I would give my life because you can defend it there where you have no opportunity. I believe that this – this – is the exact mark of the 6th and 7th debates and the exact mark of the parliamentary debate. I believe that this is the framework where parliamentarianism is to be placed, not Catalan; Spanish, European and the world. That it has to be able to debate everything. And the 6th and 7th is defending the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia. The 6th and 7th is defending the separation of powers, it is defending that the legislative power must have the capacity to legislate. It is a defense that the legislature must have the capacity to represent the citizenry because all of us, the one hundred and thirty-five, represent the people of Catalonia, and we must be able to represent in this chamber all the visions, all the opinions, all the debates and all the requests that the citizenry of Catalonia has entrusted to us. And even more so, as much as you, therefore, in this report, I imagine, distorting some facts, the 6th and 7th was completed the Regulation, it was completed the Rules and articles and precepts that the same Regulation of the chamber, the order of the chamber has articulated to such effect. And they respected the rights of the Members, and they respected the rights of political dissent, and they respected the rights of participation of Members and Members and parliamentary groups. And he did it. But because it was made with this idea that I told them, that it was defending the parliamentary debate, that it was defending that everything could be talked about here. And that's why I want to have a special record for President Carme Forcadell, as well as for all political prisoners and political prisoners and exiles and exiles, that to allow parliamentary debates and to allow citizens to vote are unfairly persecuted and engaged. [[Greetings.]] But following the debate, President Torra referred to the morning: do we want to do this? No, no, No, we didn't want him to do that, the 6th and the 7th. That's why we made a joint statement, which was to start a bill from all parliamentary groups with a blank sheet. We wanted to have an initial debate with all the Members and the Members, with all the parliamentary groups. But what did you do? So a little the same thing they always know how to do: ask – ask – and we go to the Constitutional, and we take a picture of each other together, by the way, and we prevent a debate, a parliamentary process. How would we have done that? So, with a normal procedure: joint debate, totality debate, committee opinion, go to the plenary, approve the laws and make a normal debate. But you wanted to bring the parliamentary debate to justice, and so we got to 6 and 7. And let me unmount a few 6 and 7 mantras. Say, uh, some of the things they said, huh? I may give up some, but I think I'm going to try to collect them, maybe not as uncertain as Mrs. Arrimadas did this morning, but I'm going to try, so I'm going to try to collect some of the assumptions that you've been saying, right? "The Bureau should not have accepted these laws. There is, therefore, case law of the Constitutional Court which marks exactly the opposite, which says that the Bureau should only be blinded to the formal aspects by admitting or refusing a parliamentary debate. There is constitutional jurisprudence in other precepts, such as the creation of commissions, such as legislative projects, in other chambers of other autonomous communities. There's case law. Therefore, the Bureau was ungrateful exclusively to look at whether the formal requests are complete or not, and to do its work, not to make the censor preview, which is what some would want you to guess the Parliament. According to the mantra: « They did not let us talk. Well, then, the People's Party spoke on such occasions in the debate of the referendum, almost forty minutes; Cities, on seven occasions, forty-five minutes thirty-six seconds; Socialist Party, thirteen interventions, thirty-four minutes; Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, deu, forty minutes almost, and Juntes per el Si spoke twenty-six minutes, seven interventions, and the CUP, four interventions, for ten minutes. So, man, god-in-law, god-in-law, what's-in-law was able to talk. And I think it's good, because I think the work of Parliament is that everyone can counter positions, that we can argue, that we can show where we agree and where we disagree. That's exactly what he was able to talk about. « They are not going to be able to make statements. That this is a curious thing, because everyone presented reviews. Moreover, the House voted on the proposals that had been put forward. But someone supported me repeatedly and said: "No, they were not able to submit papers. So, man, Parliament's plenary voted on drafts – voted on drafts –; some groups ended up withdrawing them, on the last occasion, but they voted on drafts presented for all the groups. "It's that you can't do a debate this way. Well, so he reformed the Rules so he could do a one-reading debate; that's what he did. Now, of course, he took it to the Constitutional and was suspended, so I guess they doubted whether this could be constitutional or not, right? , if it meets the requirements. I suppose it was hard to think that it was perfectly applicable, when in Andalusia, Aragó, Asturias, the Illes, the Canàries Islands, Cantàbria, Castella - La Manxa, Castella and Lleó, Extremadura, Galicia, La Rioja, Madrid, Murcia, Navarre, Euskadi, Valencia and the Congress of Deputies had the same procedure. I suppose it was very hard to think it was perfectly legal, if all these were. And, therefore, it is suspicious, this process. All right. And then it's for 81.3, which is the same but the most fucked up. And they say, "No, that's what can't be done. Ostres, to the Plenum of the previous week: « President : Yes, Mr Carrizosa, now yes, why ask me the word? That's a phrase I think it's the most felt in that ple, isn't it? And Mr Carrizosa said: "To request the alteration of the agenda consisting of such..., that was the request of the President's appearance. And then he says: "The regulatory channel would be 83.3. So, when can it be used and when can't it be used? When Ciutadans the plantation, yes it can be used, and when Junts for Yes, on that occasion, it cannot be used. I suppose you mark a little the criteria when you do, when you don't. Perhaps it is you who say: "No, it must be simple readings. Clearly, that's why the Spanish State has reformed the Constitution on two occasions for a single reading – I suppose it's simple laws, the Constitution is a very simple thing, I understand it is, right? Either the Law of Presupposition, or the Law of Electoral Regime, the LOREG, which was modified by one reading, which are the simplest, of all the laws that exist in the Spanish State are the simplest, the Constitution, the LOREG, or the abdication of the king, the Law of the Crown, was also made by one reading. [[The timer laughs.]] Oh, these are simple, these are not. Maybe now they're changing and saying, "Oh, oh, oh, they've caught us, wait; so let's say it's by consensus. So, oysters, the reform of the Constitutional Court, which only had the support of the People's Party and all the rest of the chamber was against, was done by one reading. When it's consensus, when it's not, when it's simple, when it's not; I don't know, let's talk about it. How many complaints have you made about this, Mr. Posada or Mrs. Ana Pastor? I don't know. Reports from the speakers: "Mrs.Carme Forcadell, the president, said this here and warned all the Members if they wanted to follow, because there were simple warnings. He did it. The lady, by the way, Ana Pastor refused to do the same in the debate that President Sánchez presented to increase the expense floor in a law of an article, and the Bureau carried it, without consulting the letters. Then it can be done, can't it? When? When did Mr. Carrizosa say that? Well, then we'll have to look at it. Or the Guarantee Board? That it's not binding and that everyone knows it, and that the plenary has exempted the processes, more so; the plenary, all the deputies. But it's not precept, but then... well. Here it seems that it is very important, but, in change, an opinion is asked of the Council of State for the proposal for a resolution of the monarchy, which says that it is not a requirement to bring it to the Constitutional, and says: "No, this does not serve anything else, we wear it the same, to the Council of Ministers, does it not? So, there are some decisions that are not binding, that from time to time it's good to complete and from time to time, no, it's up to you to build a relationship to charge yourself with independence and organize a general cause against independence. When the laws are unconstitutional, this is one of the other processes that is always said: "It is that they were manifestly unconstitutional. How many laws have the Constitutional Court suspended from this chamber and have been discussed with normality? How many? Because the process is later! But you're creating a relationship to carry independence. In fact, there is case law with the Ibarretxe case, because it was filed an equal constitutional appeal; because they said: "Here is reforming the law, which is wanting to make a reference. And what did the Constitutional Court say? "What is different is that the debate or discussion promoted by the proposing Government will then be formalized by the legally appropriate means. To understand something else would be to ignore the logic of the parliamentary democratic system, the basis of which is that Parliament is the natural seat of political debate. It is to say, that, with the debate of Pla Ibarretxe, the one said the Constitutional..., rejected the appeal and said: "No, no, no, in any case, we would act later. The debate must be able to take place, because, in fact, he says: "It is a pity, in the end, to put Parliament under unacceptable supervision. That's what I said on the Ibarretxe board. Therefore, you, lords of Ciutadans, have a report only to carry independence, have a false and invented report to carry independence. And we, democratically, will continue to advance for the future, to complete the future...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.165.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.166.0	... – I finish, President – that asks the majority of the citizenry in Catalonia, because you do want to wipe out 2_million people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.167.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.168.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.169.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia the deputy Mr Lluís Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.170.0	Thank you, President. Many honorable President of the Generality, Councillors, Councillors, Councillors..., let's print, first of all, make two comments that they have to see above all with a question, which has already been referred to, and it is that we find ourselves with people and advisors in prison and with advisers who are making..., and Members of this chamber, who are making themselves vague. And, therefore, from here a record for these people who are engaged and who are in a situation of lack of freedom for having done something that, from our point of view, does not deserve in any case the power or condition of being in prison and in some cases also in exile. And especially for Carme Forcadell who was the president of this Parliament who is in prison, basically, for allowing a debate of the 6th and the 7th, which, even though other parliamentary groups have not used..., or have not made or analyzed in depth what actually happened on the 6th and the 7th, I will try to do so in a way that does not generate controversy, but in a detailed way. I do want to say that the Carme Forcadell, and the members of the Bureau who at that time share the Bureau with her, allowed the debate, helped even at a certain point in time that certain items that they wanted to present as items to the totality are present in the joint and allowed a whole series of questions that they have to see with the Parliamentary Rules, which can certainly be questionable. And, therefore, we are also able to formulate or make a critical review of the 6th and 7th because, in fact, probably all the parliamentarians who were the 6th and 7th, those days, can make a degree of self-criticism that serves for the better, that this would possibly be the best conclusion that we would have had of those days. But no matter what, one of the questions we ask ourselves in the first place is..., and we are presenting a point, it is the title of the monographic debate, this from "a time to democracy and" a time to democracy. A couple of days in a parliament is contradictory, it's an oxymoron. That is to say, to take a look at the state in Parliament when there were two days that we spent hours and hours allowing the debate; when everyone was able to speak exactly and position themselves on what was being dealt with. And, in fact, there has been reference, there are parliamentary groups that have spoken more and have certainly spoken less. But the purpose was to approve the Law of the Referendum, but it didn't all start on the 6th and the 7th. In July there was a precise attempt to set up a joint delegation to make an amendment to the Rules. That, of course, I also take advantage of the adversity, if indeed in the 6th and 7th days, in the discussions that took place at the Bureau, even in the interventions that took place in the plenary and that consist in the book of acts and that is very interesting, and I recommend their reading... Because some have been very critical with the Bureau, they have been very critical with the deputies who supported the Government. I'm going back to reading some of his interventions. In some cases they were, to say the least, ill-educated, interrupted at certain times... in many moments, and I see it again because the critical review really has to do it or we have to do it practically all. Mrs. Forcadell's gonna miss it. When he asked, please... that he never did, by the way, and some were holding him back, even so, because he was no more strong when someone shouted at the room, when someone even insulted in this room, he did not, in any case, cry out to anyone at all. We're probably going to have a critical reflection on what happened on the 6th and 7th, all of us, absolutely all of us. Not only the members of the Bureau. Why is one of the issues to be raised: did they have right parliamentary groups supporting the government to change the agenda of the 81.3 deal? Did they really have a right? Yeah, they had it right. It is an article that has been used relatively, but it has been used precisely by the Ciutadan Group a long time ago. Up to the point that in other autonomous parliaments and in the Congress of Deputies, and even in the Senate, it is also perfectly possible. And no one's squirming. And it's an article, plus, that's perfectly regulated. Even constitutionalists who have studied the case of Catalonia in concrete terms, because in fact there is a whole range of very particular discussion about the Parliament of Catalonia respect this question, recognize that using 81.3 is perfectly constitutional. Because there was no alternative, because 135.2, they remember perfectly, that it was suspicious for the Constitutional Court. And also, remember the groups that at that time presented the correspondents resources..., more than ex post it is possible to file an appeal, therefore, certain acts that are fanciful to the Parliament of Catalonia can be suspended. It is therefore not clear, in any case, that criminal measures must be taken to resolve a matter which can be resolved from a parliamentary point of view and which, moreover, can be resolved, I insist, after the corresponding resources. What is certain is that everyone agrees that with 81.3 it was possible to change the order of the day of that Ple. And the other question was up to what point the Table, which is also a question for some of you discussed, needed to admit to forwarding the corresponding proposals of the Law. He had to admit that they were basically dealing with a matter, and it is that the Bureau of a Parliament has no competence to limit the debate, nor just to decide whether a bill is constitutional or not. In fact, the Constitutional Court had always thought of this, the Bureau has to deal practically with these proposals of law, basically, because it does not have the right to enter the questions of foundations, it does not have to enter precisely in the field of political opportunity. The political opportunity precisely what the Bureau does is to transfer it to the plenary, which is where we need to discuss whether a bill somehow meets the concerns of one parliamentary group or another. And what is certain is that the same Constitutional Court laid down, as a consequence of what was brought to fruition or of the proposals of law that were brought to fruition to the Parliament of Catalonia, a change of doctrine only for the Parliament of Catalonia. Can that justify it? Does that sound from a legal point of view? To all the sections that sometimes give lessons of parliamentarianism, to all those wise people who explain to us how we have to do our things or how the Bureau has to do them, I honestly say that, admittedly, the Constitutional Court had always said that it did not have any sense of subjection. What has happened is that he has made a change of doctrine, and the question is, all the months of parliaments all over the state, at the Congress of Deputies, will he also have to make a change of doctrine? Is that to say, do they also tend right now to limit points of view and study the constitutionality of the proposals of law that they present? These are questions that someone has to answer when it comes to defending that these proposals really should not have been allowed to go through. These are questions that need to be answered. Is that a planned control menu? Isn't there any possibility of later reviewing this constitutionality? All these questions, I insist, must be resolved. And they have not resolved their case law, among other things because there have only been pronouncements from what the Catalan Parliament has done. So the Catalonian Parliament has a rule. Certainly... and one person says it, precisely, with no doubt of independence, but of an indisputable legal capacity, that is Diego López Garrido, precisely the deputy he carried, somehow, or who knows perfectly well when a rebel is produced and when a rebel is not produced; he says that there was no rebellion in our case, in this case precisely. But, notwithstanding this, as a matter-of-fact student, he is also a person with a legal category, he also says that, certainly, parliamentary regulations must be flexible, that they must facilitate the work of all Members and all parliamentary groups and that, obviously, the autonomy of parliaments must be respected; obviously, the autonomics, and it must also be allowed autonomy, precisely, in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate. And this is said by a representative of prestige, of prestige not only political, but also academic; he is a person who has actually studied parliamentarianism on different occasions and defends the autonomy of the Bureau of Parliament at the time of raising these questions. All these questions, which are very technical, certainly help to break a report that was the one defended by Mr. Fernández, who, here, he said, went to hell. The Popular Parliamentary Group, that day, also went to sack – sack. [[Greetings.]] And I can tell you, I was in a bag too, I was in a bag too. So, we don't have to go into trouble. But in any case, we don't all have to go to bed, we have to do a critical review, which would please you too. Another thing is that it was trying to make a debate about the 6th and 7th. Certainly, Mrs. Arrimadas did not or did not speak practically of the 6th and 7th, nor did she just delve into the question, perhaps, most questionable, which is the question that has to do with the advice of the Board of State Guarantees. How we were in front of a procedure that is not the common one, but that is basically the special one, which is what allows us to modify and alter the order of the day, and, therefore, this generates a different procedure, which also allows the vote of the plenary, which is to be exempt, on the part of the plenary, from certain formalities and certain formalities which the doctrine also has doubts as to whether the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, which is required, but, in any case, is binding, forms part of the essential core of what are the functions or questions to be carried out by the Members. Is it that, as part of this essential core, a fundamental right may be considered to have been affected by the fact that it did not request the advice of the Board of State Guarantees? So there's a lot of people who say no, and there's also doctrine that says yes. But is this question as conflicting as it is for us to think that this can bring people to prison? What can, in any way, be the object of quarrels for rebellion or other crimes? Was it just the problem, really, of the statutory guarantee board? Probably, as it did on July 1352, it would have been that the establishment of the Constitutional Court, as well as the establishment of the statutory guarantee board, subsequently accepted that the single reading was perfectly constitutional, when, from a regulatory point of view, it is also proceeded to define which procedure is the case because opposition groups can carry out the papers, which seems to me very appropriate and, precisely, very logical. What does this issue also show? So it shows that the rules are certainly also going to improve them and make modifications. If there are any questions in the Rules that you consider to be inadequate or unsatisfactory, in a way, also the evolution of parliamentarianism, make changes to the Rules, but make them in the corresponding committee and make them, in the final analysis, to resolve and to facilitate, precisely, from the file in the office, which is concerned, that the Members can work and are able to express with the maximum of their freedom their opinions and their votes. Because there is another question that the great report, which certainly ended up consolidating, is up to what point inviolability and parliamentary immunity can be applied in this case or cannot be applied in this case. The deputies of all the chambers, the deputies of the Congress of Deputies, the deputies of this Parliament, have absolute freedom to express their views on what they think is appropriate. [[Greetings.]] This is basic and substantive, and it is recognized, at last, for the Constitutional Court. And they're protected. And, besides, I'll tell you one question, which is interesting, or so, it's not a prerogative or a privilege, because sometimes questions are certainly raised as a menu of privileges. They are not privileges, they are prerogatives to fall functional, which means that the day you cease to be Members will not have this protection. They are here in representation of citizens and citizens of this country who have entrusted them or have entrusted us with a task and for this reason we must be able to speak and do with freedom, respecting the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, but act and do with freedom, I insist. There is another issue, too, which has to do with immunity and inviolability, there can be no criminal proceedings to try to modify the majority parliaments in a parliament. That's parliamentary immunity, and that's not enough to talk about, and that's also a question to consider. There can be no criminal proceedings that change what has been the legislative decision and the citizens' vote. The legislative power, the executive power and the judiciary must be separated in due course, there must be no bindings, no conditionalities, no participations or coincidences, each has to develop its own task. And it seems to me that this is an absolutely strategic principle of what is the right state and democracy, which is the separation of powers. In short, another question that has left me alone today, and it is not that I have fixed it to Mrs. Arrimadas, but it has left me alone, above all, because it is a first of criminal law, besides, the general part, there are no quarrels in futurable facts, there are no quarrels. [[Greetings.]] There are disputes once certain facts have taken place. And, besides, they have to adapt to the typical correspondent and they have to produce what the Criminal Code actually says, because the Criminal Code cannot be interpreted either. The Criminal Code defines which criminal types correspond to it and which penalties, moreover, are attributed. There can be no quarrels about the future. Because this goes, doctrinally, also the enemy's criminal right or, worse still, that it is the preventive criminal right, that this is unjustifiable, has no meaning, but from a legal point of view, of course, and not from a political point of view. We will not solve anything, nothing, absolutely nothing more with more quarrels – nothing–; it will not solve anything. The problem, precisely, of what we have experienced these past few times is that some have left behind their political functions and have moved the political problem to justice, to justice, and so much is denied – it has already been said – to judicialize politics as to politicize justice. He's still negated. We're here to solve the problems and, with dialect, it's obvious that we can work on them, until I know what you're defending... – and I don't have any doubt about it – you're as Catalan as I am, I'd just miss it. I am not absolutely convinced, and they respect their representativeness, and they respect, precisely, the one they represent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.171.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.172.0	And so do I. And so do I.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.173.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.174.0	... to work a little more in the future of the country, because you certainly won the elections in votes and have more responsibilities than you actually exercised.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.175.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.176.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.177.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to answer the group, the president of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.178.0	Yeah, nice late, president. Good afternoon to everyone. I'll answer the group. A in Lluís Guinó, thanks for this lesson of parliamentarianism, and also of criminal law, but I suppose that, accustomed to justify and accept that there may be a pre-emptive prison, so you no longer see from here, female also pre-emptive quarrels, huh? And maybe the next step will be, I don't know, a struggle to think or a struggle to sow. You see what's coming to us in the future, don't you? But, Mrs. Arrimadas, look, as more threats, more democracy; as more threats, more right to have rights and more threats, more fame of justice. Repeat often a phrase by Pau Casals, very nice, which says: "The earth is returned when you don't have it. You don't have to be free men and women. So look, as the MP of the UPC reminded him, we don't have for, we don't have for his threats; we don't have for, we don't have for. And I'm following them, I'm following them, I'm inviting you, too, to the magnificent debate of democracy and parliamentarianism and the right to talk and talk about everything. Mr. Iceta, I thank you for focusing your speech on what was the subject of this debate. You and we probably have a different way of hearing legitimacy and legality, above all, this legality that is imposed on us by a constitution that is based on the indissoluble unity of Spain and not on democracy. Here, really, it separates us a deep discrepancy. But I let you store the positive parts of your debate. Let's store your bet for the dialog. I hope that we will see, therefore, the Palau de la Generalitat around the 8th of February, which is when I think it would be worth having this new session of the Table for the Dialeg. Thanks also for talking about negotiation and pact, and to say that the Catalan society is not fractured, that it is divided. It seems to me that these are interesting terms for going this way, in the sense that I understand that this division is a division of debate, it is a political division, but it is not fractured. Jo does ask for it, huh? , to you and your group, especially the PSOE, is that we still don't know who the Socialist Party's proposal is. We don't know who the proposal is for Catalonia. In Comú Pode, I cannot share his analysis of the 6th and 7th of September, but I thank him for his support for political prisoners and exiles, as I also thank him for speaking about politics, humanity and empathy. But, Mrs. Albiach, watch out, huh? To say these things, and they may quarrel; therefore, let us all take sufficient account. I also like that I've been talking about a Republican Catalonia. You know we find each other here, too. But I'd still like more than just talking about how we exercise the right to self-determination to make these nice words of Republican Catalonia come true. We can't just stick to words, just as we exercise the right to self-determination. To the companies of the CUP, thank you for this praise to the word – to the word – to the debate and to democracy. I think that's what you want to convey today. To the deputy of the Republican Left, thank you again for a great parliament. I, my friend Lluís Guinó, think that it is included, therefore, in the minutes of the sessions of the Parliament this praise to parliamentarianism, to democracy, to which we are. And let me finish, therefore, thank you, those days, your pocket, your dignity, in all those days. And, with you, let me also do the homenatge to all the rest of the company of the Table and of the people that was compromised, as the Forcadell Carmel, as the Anna Simó, as in Joan Josep Nuet [[applause]] , as the Ramona Barrufet, as in Lluís Corominas. Many thanks to them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.179.0	Thank you, President. Now, with proportional time for the group, they correspond three minutes for each parliamentary group, one and a half minutes for the subgroup. In the first place, the Member of Parliament Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.180.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, you are impermeable to what you are told and to reality. We remind you that you yourself have filed complaints against five people and come back to the reply and say that filing a complaint is threatening. So you're threatening us? Are you threatening? Are you judicializing politics? Or is it that, as you follow this tendency to think that what you do is right and what others do is wrong, your complaints are good and our complaints are bad? You are going to have to answer to justice, as any citizen on foot, and not for future events, for the facts that you have already done or have stopped doing, as was your obligation. And that, whenever you want, if you want Mr. Guinó, one day we have more time we can, here, discuss that..., moreover, criminal law was one of the subjects that the most debate always generated in law classes; we can talk about it whenever you want. But it is not a fight for futureables, it is that the Government has already had responsibilities in what can happen. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, at the time of preventing criminal acts; at the time of not laundering violent acts; at the time of calling for non-illegal acts; at the time of trying to prevent crimes. Well, of course you can have responsibilities! We will discuss it whenever you want, with a coffee ahead, which is criminal law. Do you know why you can't say who has to go in or out of jail? Because on the 6th and 7th you didn't get away with it. Do you know why you cannot decide what is a crime or what is not? Because you didn't get away with it, and you can't pick the judges on your finger. Do you know why you cannot prevent manifestations of constitutionalists, as Mr Buch would like to do? Because you didn't get away with it. Do you know why you cannot erase us from society, as the Government of Slovenia did with all those whom they did not consider to be Slovenian after the war and after the declaration of independence? Because you didn't get away with it. You've tried, and in fact you're still trying, because you're still in the coup, that coup that started on 6 and 7, you're still, but if you haven't, Mr.Gómez del Moral, if you can't decide who gets in or who gets out of jail, if you can't decide whether what happened here was a violation of rights or not, because a judge does it, it's because you didn't get out with yours. You'd like to say it's a felony, wouldn't you? You'd like to say who has to go to jail or get out, wouldn't you? But you didn't get away with it, and you're not going to get it, because that's the republic you'd like to take us to, where you'd want to live. Of course, they won't have the easy way. In that repeated violation of our rights, in that humiliation of the non-independence Catalans, in that de facto elimination of all the Catalans that we are not independentists, which is what you did by eliminating the representatives of the non-independence Catalans on 6 and 7, you are not going to get away with it, because you are going to have to face the rule of law, because you are going to have to face more than half Catalonia, and also, so you know, you are going to have to face the main opposition party, which won the elections and is Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.181.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mr Miquel Iceta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.182.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Very honorable President of the Generalitat, first a small comment on a question that seems relevant to me, and it is to congratulate Lluís Guinó on his intervention. I disagree with many of the things he said, but when an intervention adds value – and there are not many – it must be recognized. [[Greetings.]] One thing I wanted to do is to replicate a group that has referred to me, or has referred to our group without need, which is the group of the commons. You were talking about our foundation, whether we recognize each other or not. Look, I'm the one who doesn't recognize only us common to the old PSU, when he declares that the Constitution is anti-democratic and anti-social. President, to take up one thing from your initial intervention, you said: "I am playing politics. He was telling us all. If I may, to play must compromise to complete with the laws and accept the referee; then you can play. You talk a lot, and quite rightly, about democracy. Democracy is not just the rule of the majority, it is also respect for minorities and respect for procedures, and that is what I think today's debate should be about. And I end with questions that you mentioned now in your final intervention. On the legitimacy, miri, of the American constitution there is no one left but you voted for it, and that is why it is respected by a majority. Therefore, the problem is not this, but simply a society may have evolved and not feel represented, and that is why fortunately the constitutions can be reformed, even more ours, which can be in their integrity. According to the question I had to see also with the Constitution. Miri, only a Catalan MP, the Honourable Heribert Barrera, mentioned as criteria of non-acceptance of the Constitution the non-recognition of the right of self-determination. I know because my avi, who still remembered the old Republican Left, made me buy a small booklet edited supposed that for Esquerra, with the speech of the Most Honorable Heribert Barrera in the constitutional debate. Therefore, I do not think that a discrepancy that was legitimate, but that then represented what it represented, could be cast today as the element of restraint of the conjunction, I think not. And it counts when we talk about legitimacy, because before some MP also let it go that the elections of 21 December were not legitimate. Listen to me, if those elections weren't legitimate, this chamber wouldn't be, and I think that's what I'd take us on a very complicated path. I, lastly, PSOE proposal. President, the PSOE proposal will be inspired by the Granada declaration, the Barcelona declaration, a constitutional reform with a federal sense and a new self-government pact expressed with a statutory reform. If you now come out and say, "Oh, that's what I don't like. I don't think you're fighting to tell me, I know perfectly well. But the proposal is well-known. Here the problem is not one's proposal or another, but if we can all build one...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.183.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.184.0	...that it is accepted by a large majority. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.185.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is then the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.186.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Iceta, from here all the recognition and grace to the democrats that made the Constitution of 78 possible, but also to say that Article 135 of the Constitution, the monarchy, the privileges of the Church and the lack of armor of social rights, is antisocial and anti-democratic, and that is why we want to reform the Constitution. All the recognition and thanks to who made that pact possible, but now it has to be changed. [[Greetings.]] Mrs. Arrimadas, you speak with a frivolity and with a joy of the constant intervention of the Catalan institutions and of our self-government that amazes. I have repeated it a thousand times: the unilateral way has failed, it does not bring solutions for Catalonia, it has no democratic legitimacy, but its proposal of a permanent 155, the permanent intervention of our self-government, which supposes is a constitutional change for the back door that has no popular ratification. I insist: a permanent 155 for Catalonia, to which the door is open is to a modification, to a constitutional mutation that has no popular ratification. That is why we have already brought an appeal before the Constitutional Court for the application of 155. So they abandon this testosterone policy that won't bring them to a good place and do politics. We'll ask them please. Between their constitutional changes for the back door, and their quarrels against the President of the Generality, we do not know if they continue in their particular competition with Vox or simply have an attack of nostalgia of the past. They will not find the figure of the civilian governors in the Constitution of 78, lords and lords of Ciutadans. So maybe we'd better understand that we didn't want to give support today to the Barcelona Assembly to ban the Francisco Franco Foundation. Maybe that's it. Why are they refusing to accept normal European parameters in which to worship the figure of a genocidal dictator is out of the rules of the game? Maybe you should explain. Mirin, we are ahead of a historical scourge, before the constant threat of 155, of repression and the breakdown of rights and freedoms, of the judicialization of politics, of corruption and politicization of the judiciary, of the breakdown of the constitutional order, of levels of inequality in the working classes, but we are convinced that another country is possible, a country with a clear full road, where the citizenry knows where, and where its Government is going, with the shielding of social rights, with the freedoms and civil and political rights guaranteed, and with a dialect that will always be indispensable to defend self-government and the institutions of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.187.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the paragraph of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.188.0	Well, here's the escó. On some of the questions that have been said, we continue to insist that the unilateral way is a way of evading rights, and we stand by the company of the commons to analyze and deepen as the alliance between institutional disobedience and popular and social disobedience is a way of succeeding in evading rights. I can do it. Talk to us. We see what the way is and we don't fit into a constitution that, as he quite rightly said, is a constitution that cuts right by system, whether it's Article 135 or because the unit of Spain is sacred and doesn't allow you to see the word. On the other hand, 155, regret once again having abstained and given up making a real political debate in the framework of a referendum, and having defended ‘no,' not ‘as a legitimate option,' not ‘as a democratic option, not as an anti-democratic option'. We insist: two boxes, that of "yes" and that of "no", that of self-determination, that which gives the word to everyone, think as they think. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.189.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.190.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, I would love, as Mr.Iceta has done, to be able to congratulate Mr.Guinó. I've made an intimate effort, but I can't. I cannot, because what you have done, with a good parliamentary technique, is to establish a false and perverse symmetry, pointing out that, well, that here we all have more or less the same guilt, that we all have to make self-criticism. No, no, Not at all. Not at all, because I must remind you that to us..., that we did not really take the word with a very good mood to be denied by appealing to specific articles of the Rules of Procedure, repeatedly throughout the morning of day 6. That's what happened. Then on the 7th they rectified, because they realized, reading the parliamentary chronicles, the criticisms they were receiving from the whole of Catalan society. But that happened all day 6. It would be better for me to acknowledge that everything has gone out of hand, that unilaterality leads to a lack of democracy, and that in the end, what you tried to do here was an illiberal experiment in line with the national populist regimes that are proliferating unfortunately and that are attacking democracy throughout the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.191.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Deputy Gerard Gómez del Moral. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.192.0	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs. Arrimadas, no proposal, never make a proposal, and that's very, very disappointing, because they always go against, always look at the past, always against what we have made, always want to put the strongest emphasis on what others have made, never, ever proposed. And it seems... sometimes it makes the feeling they have, I didn't take it badly, but a certain allergy to democracy. I say in the sense that they do not accept the results that this Parliament votes, they are against what this Parliament votes, they are against that there are ballots, they are against that there are agreements, they are against that there is dialogue, they are against that there are references... Home, therefore, democracy is precisely on the basis that everyone can vote and we all build a future. But, of course, it seems that you want to ban what you don't like. It seems that you only understand the language of repression and prohibition. Miri, do you know who picked the judges by the finger? The Spanish State, because it broke the default court for the law. It is you who have chosen the judges to the finger of those who will judge political prisoners. It is the Spanish State, violating principles that are in the Constitution, and in all laws. Sap who wants to erase us from society, Mrs. Arrimadas? No, don't gesticulate, if it doesn't happen, if the debate is to talk. Do you know who wants to get rid of society, who wants to illegalize the independence parties, who wants to modify the laws because the independenceists don't see the Congress of Deputies, which is you, by the way, who wants to apply a 155, dismiss President Torra and apply a 155 carrying the self-government? It's these people who want to wipe out what they don't like, which is independence. And now you're planting a 155 no end. And you know why I think you want to apply it? I'll read you that no intervention, which I shouldn't be able to do in the debate on September 6th, as you ended up. Deia: "I say to you: we will see each other in the ballot box, in the ballot box with guarantees. And I am convinced that after this black stage we will get an alternative in Catalonia that thinks of all Catalans. Why do you want to apply 155? Because they didn't win, because they don't accept the election results. [[Greetings.]] Because you said we'd meet at the polls, that's why they accepted 155, but like they didn't win, so they don't like it. Look, you're a useless game, and I'm not saying it in your pejorative, I'm saying it in your description, not useful. And I want to appeal to your voters, because there are a lot of people who voted for them probably because you were president, because you were against the independenceists, because maybe they found that things weren't done right. And what solutions have you given them? Not one. Not one. They're talking about concord, but they're just looking for division. President Torra summons them and they don't go. They talk about 'neutrality on the beaches, and they catch an airplane to put a Ciutadans logo on all the beaches. Talk about referrals and catch a bus with the face of my president and president Puigdemont, who the fan circulates to all the cities of Spain. You are a total inconsistency – total. [[Greetings.]] I, therefore, Mrs. Arrimadas – and I finish, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.193.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.194.0	Therefore, Mrs. Arrimadas, you represent all the opposite of what you say you represent a priori. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.195.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Lluís Guinó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.196.0	Thank you, President. President, advisors, first of all, what I have to do is please the words of Deputy Iceta, especially for his trajectory and his value as a deputy. He is a great parliamentarian and, therefore, from this point of view, I still appreciate his praise. Another question that I wanted to put on the table as well and that I have to see with Mr. Fernández. In the previous Bureau of Parliament you were and could participate in all the months, and not necessarily for the Rules of Procedure, formally you should have been. They participated with you – with you –, not with a vote, but they participated with you in all months. Therefore, it is not a complaint of restrictions on your rights. In the previous legislature. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You... you didn't have a vote for the Catalonian Parliament elections to be part of the Bureau, and it was an agreement of the Bureau, which seems to me, more correct and the defense, than you were at the Bureau with you. There was a lot of active participation, you know that. You know, there was a lot of active participation. The issue of the national populist and all these stories, if you like, as Mrs Arrimadas has said, with a coffee, we can talk about it, but we are in the plenary of Parliament and it seems to me that we need to talk about more objective issues and that we can believe empirically. With regard to this, it is clear that you can speak with the Bureau of Parliament... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, that you were not there, Mr. Fernández, but there was your companion, yes, yes, that made interventions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What do you mean, here? No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.197.0	I don't go into a debate between you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.198.0	...beyond the debate, they participated in the Bureau, and at the Bureau there was dialogue and they participated actively. Second question, and I also forgot, and it also refers to the criticisms that sometimes are made of the ex-president Zapatero. The year 2005, which takes the initiative to decriminalize, precisely, and to remove from the sphere of criminal law, to be able to pull forward a reference, to be able to participate actively in a reference, not protecting only the policies that start, from a point of view, the tasks to make a reference, even all the citizens who have the will to cooperate, was President Zapatero. It decriminalized the exercise of the right in reference, certainly. And that has to be recognized. And this is another point that I would also like to put on the table. And, ultimately, also, applying and calling 155 is not always justified from a constitutional point of view. Yes, this Constitution that you defend does not allow you to apply without day 155, I don't know where you have it, that. It's just that even the whole Constitutional Court is sure to tell them they can't do it, that's all. Let's go back to a minimum normality, which is that applying 155 per system is not possible. We are ahead of an absolutely exceptional action and activity that was given for a set of circumstances that we do not share. But it is clearly a political decision that should not necessarily involve criminal measures. And that's the big difference between asking 155 again...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.199.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.200.0	...or to hear that 155 was a political decision, that we have never shared or shared, but it does not give him right to apply it systemically...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.201.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.202.0	...because it's a clearly exceptional measure. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.203.0	Thank you, Congressman. Once we're done with this debate, I'm guessing that, according to... yes, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.204.0	Yes; it's for a contradiction with Mr. Guino.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.205.0	Say it. Thirty seconds. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.206.0	No, it's very, very short.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.207.0	If it's a contradiction, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.208.0	Yeah, yeah, it's a contradiction, because, even if I object...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.209.0	Because allusions, they've all praised each other...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.210.0	No, contradiction, president – contradiction.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.211.0	All right. Say it, say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.212.0	Yeah. Even though the aim of the sitting is on 6 and 7 September in the plenary session of Parliament and not the Bureau of Parliament, it is enough to remind Mr Guinó that he said that our parliamentary group did not have a vote in that Bureau because it did not correspond to it by election..., to remind Mr Guinó that, surely, by political interest of someone, our group was left without a vote in the Bureau of Parliament and, on the other hand, another group with fewer deputies than our own, because certain groups were certainly interested in the fact that most of them were in this way and not in another way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.213.0	All right. Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Lluís Guinó and Subirós ask to speak.]] Yeah? Mr. Guinó, but I will ask you not to enter into a debate with you. If it's to make a contradiction, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.214.0	No, it's because it gives me little of a question that you have to see, in contradiction, with what the deputy of the People's Party comments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.215.0	If it's a contradiction, yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.216.0	It is equally respectable the right to minorities and to respect the rights to minorities, it is equally respectable, however, that minorities cannot precisely block the rights of the majority. This configures democracy. Respecting minorities, however, does not have to be considered as the ability to block minorities respects certain questions. Just that. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.217.0	All right. Now, once this debate is over, I am sure that, according to the sequence agreed upon by the Board of Spokesmen, the processing of the subsequent motions for resolutions will follow this debate: the deadline for submitting the motions for resolutions is today, at seven o'clock; the qualification and communication to the parliamentary groups and sub-groups of the proposals admitted to the Bureau will be fifteen minutes later, i.e., one quarter of the time, and the deadline for submitting the compromise proposals will be tomorrow, he said, at twelve o'clock. The reminder that, as it was agreed also to the Board of Spokesmen, this term is improbable. The communication to the parliamentary groups and sub-groups of the proposals admitted to the Bureau will be said to two_quarts of one of the media, approximately. And the presentation and voting of the motions for resolutions will be said late, presumably two-quarters late. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the social return of bank bailout]] [[302-00045/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the social return of bank bailout, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. In order to expose her, Congresswoman Eva Baró has the word. When you want, deputy, and in any case, you hope that the deputies and deputies who want to leave the hemicicle in silence. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.218.0	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we asked the government about the social return of the bank bailout. We remembered that the rescue had raised some 75,000_million euros, that it had been produced in front of the escalator of a real estate cylinder that the same bank had been active. At that time, the Spanish government approached how the bank bailout was approached: under the baton of an implacable and unrelenting troika with no comment or feedback, no reply, eh? , without opening the mouth. So it turned out that the heaviest paid for the party, the bar frees the most powerful: the world backwards. The healing of the situation also involved the creation of this society, the Sareb, which joined the toxins and had the task of marketing them to help return the debt. At this time, it is a task in which it is not re-elected, according to a report from 2016, that is to say, that at this time the Sareb neither benefits nor allows anyone to benefit from its actions. From this almost two years ago, and sometimes it seems that no one remembers that the bank bailout was produced without the type of return, without the type of compensation or the counterpart. All this time, Sareb has never had a formal mandate or commitment in this regard. We've been in this situation for almost two years – it's been years. And this motion directly questions all of us as representatives of the citizenry who suffered the consequences of an economic crisis and who took over the rescue of the bank. This young man asks us a question: do we look like we're given more years or do we do something? Do we continue to make, occasionally, great complaints, great proclamations of maximum? Or do we take a much more humble proposal, certainly, of consensus, but also more viable and also more realistic, and start all folds to take part in where we can focus? Move the file or move the file? This is a motion about the social return of the bank bailout. And, therefore, debate... I intend to debate which measures we can push and which we can demand from this Parliament among all of us, in order to force the last responsible for the rescue: the Spanish Government. Obviously, the bank bailout was caused by a slave of the real estate cylinder and therefore, obviously, indirectly or not so indirectly included, we are talking about housing, but this is not a housing policy motion, nor a motion to urge the Generality to do or stop doing something in this matter. Before I begin, I would like to thank all groups without the exception of the papers presented. Yesterday I was able to talk to all of them, and certainly most of the papers we did not accept. We didn't accept them, not because we didn't share the reference – and that's why I'm not completely convinced and so I feel and so I say –, but because we tried to preserve the feeling and purpose of the motion, filtering out those aspects that seemed to us to be moving the focus of attention. Because the focus we want to see is the lack of social return that was the biggest bank rescue in the history of Spain and to demand that those responsible move. Still, I understand, and I'm doing the job, that some companies, members of other parliamentary groups, may be upset about this, because they may not have accepted some of the papers, the strength of the papers. The line, sometimes, is blurry, and it's possible that we haven't come out as well as we wanted to, but as well, I think, honestly, that if the compromise with which we're debating is firm, beyond this legitimate and conjunctural discomfort, I think there's no objective reason not to support this young man and not to commit together to resolving a situation that goes on for years. Therefore, this young man, in some ways, wants to make a manifesto which is the real will of all groups at the time of assuming the share of responsibility that surrounds them both to Parliament and to all institutions where representation and where it is likely that they can have a decisive impact on the resolution of this issue. What? So driving concrete measures to help mitigate the effects of the rescue. Are these insufficient measures? Possibly. Incomplete? Well, that's for sure. Could they do many more things? , so good; in two years they have not done, but so good. Are they wreaths? It may be that some consider that they are wreaths, even though it is possible that some use this as arguments for not giving it an explicit support, but it is much more than we have done so far and it is much more than we have so far. The reality is that this young man makes some proposals and asks for a level of involvement in parliamentary groups as had not been proposed before in this Parliament. The reality is that all of us must re-open or not re-open this debate and take a step forward, even though it is small, or remain as we are now, with these great proclamations very pleasant to the hear, but that they do not bring a solution in any case, let us solve remote solutions, nor a mandate from this chamber to the parliamentary groups that represent directly affected citizenship. The reality is that if we choose between promoting measures that can help to improve the situation of many families who have suffered from the crisis and not do it, we will not be shaken by the pulse and we will always opt for the defence of the citizenry, at the risk that they will take us as they seem. So the question is, are we or are we not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.219.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.220.0	... in favour of pushing – I finish – a motion that seeks to ensure a social return from bank bailout? Yes or no? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.221.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.222.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, vice president, deputies and deputies, well, they have presented us with a motion on the return to the citizenry of the bank rescue, a motion that, while Congresswoman Baró told us that it was not based on habitat, only can see the agreements of the motion that he proposes to see that yes, which is obviously a youth centered on habitat policies. That is why it surprised us, if not, that the question preceding this motion is made, precisely to Vice-President Aragones and, in any case, the question to Councilman Calvet is not made. But, come on, in these things of the government we won't put ourselves there. A young woman who, in addition, has changed in the process of errands. It started without asking the Government of the Generality and doing so that we already have our habits, that it is extricating the responsibility, the deputy said to us..., wondered if we were to die, but, of course, it is that the file that you want to move is from another table, it is not from here, the one from here we have many, of files to move, and it turns out that the Generality does not move them. The state is asking for legislative changes to respect Sareb and also for more resources. And the municipality is also asked for more resources so that they are destined to create a public housing park through aunty and retraction. It seems that, after the conversations with different groups, there have been two transactions with Juntes for Catalonia with two petitions to the Government of the Generality. It seems that in the end these conversations, even though the papers of the other groups have not been accepted practically, therefore, they have achieved their result, they have been distilled into some measures, in some Juntes' papers for Catalonia. In fact, our vote will be consistent with their agreements, because, as you said, we believe that they are clearly insufficient. Look, we're running out of housing, once again, concrete proposals and leadership from the Generality, and it's not there. We need the Generalitat to lead the creation of a public housing park. We need not only to cope with the housing emergency that exists, but above all, which is also planned at the end of the day. We need the government to come up with a strategy to fight against empty floors and occupations, and also that on this issue the municipalities are not alone, that they are there, and they must face these very critical situations in their own way. Don't push the responsibility. Don't ask others for action while you don't act. I, mirin, respect the actions of the Government of the State, the Government of the State already acts. Luckily, we have a government of the state that rules and acts. In fact, in the Council of Ministers of Retailers passed a series of urgent measures to improve access to housing, measures such as the extension of the terms of the three- to five-year and/or seven-year contracts, if the owner is the tenant, the lessor is a legal person, and also the extension of the extensions of one to three-year contracts; the limitation of the payment of bonds or the cost of formalizing contracts; measures to control touristic habitats; giving more force to the communities of owners, and, respecting the additions, the possibility that they can improve the IBI up to a 95_per_cent in those habitats that can be used to limit – a measure that much more often than the previous ones, but rather than the previous ones. And many other more legislative measures aimed at strengthening legal certainty in the area of territorial and urban planning: the handling of the State Law on Housing. These are measures which have been undertaken to work in the own months: the prohibition by law of the sale of public housing stock on the grounds of inversion; the promotion of the activities of promoters of social life; the twenty-thousands of dwellings intended indefinitely at the time of the logue, and structural measures to promote activity and the offer. And all these measures, which they want to undertake in the proper months, they want to coordinate between the State, the communities and the municipalities. But to do so, resources are needed; resources that must be reflected in the general assumptions of the State. Let us hope that you, who are so concerned about housing, will gather these assumptions, because this will entail more resources, also to allocate them to housing policies, and, therefore, to be able to guarantee this principle that you put in point 2 of the motion. If this is not the case, if they let go of the opportunity to put more resources in an environment where they are so much and so much needed, they will prove that they do not only continue to extricate themselves from responsibility, but also that they are putting themselves through other administrations, such as the Administration of the State, to undertake policies that can deepen each time more real the right to a decent habitat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.223.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Sergio Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.224.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies... what is this motion about? This motion is going to hide Esquerra's responsibility in the disaster of the savings banks. But that's all it is? No, no, What Esquerra seeks is to prolong the indignation caused by the sinking of the boxes and the disaster of bank bailout in favour of separatism. And it is that, if you remember the question of the deputy Eva Baró, he made everything responsible to l'Estat spanyol – inciting a lot in that of "Spanish" – and to the Spanish bank – inciting in that of "Spanish". We are, therefore, faced with a motion that has no other purpose than to charge against what they call the Spanish State, using as a pretext the shame of the Sareb. But do you know what's going on? That this Parliament is a territorial institution of the Spanish State, and the highest ordinary representative of the State in Catalonia is the President of the Generalitat. The sinking of the savings banks, the bank bailout, the Sareb, has all been a shame, but a real shame, but a shame with those responsible. And they can't hide. Or was it that Esquerra Republicana was not on the board of directors of the Catalan savings banks that had to be rescued by the FROB? It's obvious that it is. But if Josep Huguet, a counselor of his party, even presumed it. Now they want to hide it, of course, and that is why they voted in favour of the opinion on the investigation of the bank bailout and the savings boxes in the Congress of Deputies, to hide their responsibility in the bankruptcy of the boxes. Esquerra can boast of having managed in just ten years that Catalonia has gone from having ten savings banks to having no bank office, none. Firstly, because of their management of the boxes; secondly, because the process has led to the flight of thousands of companies, including the Caixa i Banc Sabadell. Left can also boast of something else, and it is that the Generalitat has had to be rescued by the FLA. You rescuers have a career, let's... But do you know what we'd like? That instead of saying that it is all the fault of the Spanish State, they assume their responsibilities, and that they put all their efforts to solve the problems of Catalans and not to create new ones. We would like this motion to place more duties on the Government. Basically, in the initial one it had none, they have now accepted some amendment in which it seems to be, but actually it is not, because when they talk about the budget it is based on the budget availability; of course, if they are spent on embassies, then there is no budget for housing. But, of course, they don't want to do homework because they're too busy with so much travel to Waterloo up, Waterloo down... With the amendments we did want to place duties on the Government, important duties. First, increase the budget, allocating 0.6_per_cent of gross domestic product to housing policies. Something that we've been defending for years since Ciutadans. Two years ago we made them this proposal. Do you remember how many groups in this chamber voted in favour of this budget increase? Only mine, only Ciutadans. The rest, none. Now some groups, such as the common ones, bring that proposal, but when they had the opportunity to vote they did not. And we have proposed it again, to see if, as the syndic also says, they listened to us, but they rejected it. Today we have also proposed that the rental price benchmark be used to avoid price escalation; an index that they are not using at all, but that can be a good tool for public housing policies. We already know that Mr. Torra is only interested in secession and that they do not want to bother him, and that is why they do not impose duties on him. But, look, this Government's lack of attention to economic and social needs harms its well-being, its opportunities, its future. They play with the future of Catalans. It may not be an essential thing for you because you only want to send a message, that of the usual, that of the aggravation, to say that it is still the fault of the Spanish State. But if you see the praise. It is clear that the only thing they seek is to build new pretexts for their procedural strategy. Do yourself a favor, at least don't use as a pretext a thing for which you are the most responsible as well. And do Catalans a favor: get to work and prioritize social needs once and for all. What this government is doing is doing nothing. We saw it at the Children's Plenary promoted by Ciutadans. They're not doing anything. It is clearly seen when Torra replies. As far as the vote is concerned, we will vote in favour of some points, we will abstain in others, but it is a declaratory motion. And what we need is for them to start ruling to deploy those public policies that are going to be favorable for the well-being of Catalans. Do it at once, please. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.225.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Mrs Susanna Segovia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.226.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you very much. It's clear that if in anything we agree that we've intervened so far, it's that we don't know what this young man was about. Well, a little bit, we know what's going on. It goes from what interests the Republic Group and the Government and, from what does not concern the Republic Group and the Government, it does not. This is like the general criteria. And we have heard some funny things taking into account the plethora that we are coming: we are asked to follow..., to support a viable and realistic proposal, which seeks great consensus, those of unilaterality. Or go on, now. Now we have great consensus and we are still viable and realistic. No, no, With social rights, we also need to draw more. We also have to go much further, we don't have to conform to pieces alone. And that's what this young man does. This young man goes to pieces, they want to cure or give answers or talk about returning to the bank, to correct an injustice and what he ends up proposing are small pieces and "cuts that pretend to cut with a saying a hemorrhage that is bloody and that still hurts our society. And that's not the end of 30 percent of the Sareb floors. What can it be until now that Parliament has not approved it? I don't know, but there are other places that have been mentioned. And that there are entities asking for the return to be one hundred per cent we also know. Therefore, we cannot give support to something that requires 30_percent of the return of the bank bailout. That's what it's like to stay with the soft ones, and we want to have the right side of the house, too. We're talking about bailout banks. We also had a bit of a disconcert, or so on, that the inquiry was to the vice president we thought that our deputy David Cid should do it, when we saw the agreements we saw that it was a habitation. So you say: "Fem politiques and housing proposals, right? Because that's a habitation. Oh, no! No housing, bank bailout. Of bank rescues talking about housing and tanteig and retraction floors, the few measures that have been taken so far by the Government of the Generalitat on housing issues, which is the famous one created to be able to buy tanteig and retraction floors, but it did not become a habitation. So, please, let's keep in mind that this isn't housing. But, oll! , if the reviews are made by the Junts Group for Catalonia it does go from habitating, because then they include some of the proposals and measures by Junts for Catalonia that do go from habitating. The proposals for housing policies that we make the rest do not touch this young man, they will touch another one. We've already made a young man, we're talking about housing policies and we've already seen the result. And I also want to see, when this debate ends and when we have the vote, and when we see the vote, with whom the Republican Group votes. I also said yesterday to Mr Cid: "How have we changed! We need to see the proposal and the response made by the Republican Group on housing policies ideologically to whom it goes the most, who votes for more things in favour of it and who are the groups that do not understand the answers that are intended to give to the housing crisis are pieces and declarations of intent. We have already told them: our group will not find it with statements that they only intend to, that there are no commitments on hold. As we say, asking for a 30_per_cent quit is not an adventure, it's a setback. If they think that with 30 percent of Sareb's floors yielding to social habitation, when they should have been automatically, it's moving forward, we don't agree. Actually, it's bleaching what Sareb did, and thinking that with a 30_per_cent lunch we have enough. They have used this excuse that it does not go from housing policies not to accept items that speak, for example, of the extension of the 30_per_cent protected housing, the consolidated urban soil of the whole territory. A measure that has already stopped the Barcelona Assembly, the Grup Republicana, first, avoiding there being a moratorium; it is to say that it is not possible to present new claims from the moment the initial approval is made. We didn't know how many charges came in until the final approval was made. And also the group, in this case, the Councillor of Junts for Catalonia, endorsing the definitive approval. But we already have it, I can hardly say it, we already have it. And now we're going to ask them to go all the way to Catalonia. They have also used this excuse not to talk about the rise in the rise in taxes on the benches. Ah, you don't have to see the bank bailout either! You don't have to see the bank rescue either! As we say, this young man is not brave, this young man does not propose changes, this young man is conformed to at least with a statement, to blame everything forward. And it's another missed opportunity for the government to say it's what they really want to do to solve the housing crisis. We think we should go further there. We've been told to bring solutions. I say to them the solutions: a pact of general assumptions of the State that implies an increase of 200_million euros to the state plan of the housing. This is a solution; a solution that is being avoided and not being provided. Now, say'mcom the Government of Catalonia will lay these external resources to guarantee the right to housing and effectively guarantee the social return of the bank rescue. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.227.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. Meanwhile, for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.228.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, vice president, ladies and gentlemen, look, today with this young man we are still talking about rights; today in this chamber, with the monographic debate, we have talked about rights and we are continuing to do so. From our group, Together for Catalonia, we think that all governments and all democratic parliaments have to hold as the driver of their policies the guarantee and preservation of these rights, by compromise and by responsibility with the citizenry. Unfortunately, we see how the social and political rights of our companies and companies in prison and exile, some at this time, at risk for lack of fame, are being violated. For a state that, as long as the retreats in its great card, these rights, answer arbitrarily in the case of Catalonia. I point out, for Ciutadans's speech today; point out: some people from Catalonia. In this great letter, which yesterday we also discussed thanks to a motion submitted for the UPC, the right to life, in article 15; the right to ideological freedom, on 16; to personal freedom, on 17; to freedom of expression, on 20, or to judicial protection of these rights in article 24. This is the big card that we call Constitution, and it costs as long as we enter a reform process... Also the habitation is recognized as a right in its article 47, and to the Statute of Catalonia, what we now have, also has an article 47 that empowers the Government to facilitate access in a dignified and adequate form, especially for vulnerable collections. In this chamber, the same councillor of Territori has exposed the strategic objectives in the matter of housing policies, the increase of the public housing park, the concertation with the private sector to increase the social housing stock – we are not going back – the response before the emergence of the denunciations. Since the government, work has been done, and we have more to put in value the help lines of the ICF and the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia, that they must serve because together if the entities of the third sector can acquire habitats by way of tanteig and retraction. We are talking about a line of €110_million help, with 25-year-old loans and bonuses for the agency, and a line of €140_million for promoters who develop promotions in social logger. Many make repetition speeches, others are working for this country. We also know, however, the importance of joint actions in the incidence of housing policies as a tool of social cohesion and generating opportunities for the municipality. For this reason, Mrs Ibarra, the PSOE Government's gesture with the recent Royal decree of urgent measures for access to housing, which will allow for the addition of housing as spending policies to allocate the possible surplus to financially sustainable investments. But, in no case, does it mean that they do not have to comply with the expenditure rule. A good attempt in front of the city's own campaign. Perhaps it would be time to move one of these files that you have, so that you encourage your Madrid, PSOE partners, and return the autonomy you will finance to the joints with the derogation of the LRSAL. It's a good opportunity because you guys do too. To ensure territorial balance is key the function of the Habitatage Agency in coordinating with the assemblies, to identify demand and drive actions to the end. The agency has allocated 290_million euros to carry out its task, and of these only 50 have arrived from Madrid. I would like to point out that the year 2010 with the government of Rodriguez Zapatero, it was 100_millions, an exhibition more of how finance was treated at our house, and that is why, quite simply, we want to go. Ras and short. Our parliamentary group is showing reception with the recommendations of the Greuges Synod. We claim that the company of management of the proceeds..., the Sareb, gives way to the 30th or whatever, Mrs Segovia. We put ourselves there, we start with this, we agree to start working on this line for the creation of a social housing foundation in Catalonia with unoccupied habitats coming from the intervening banking entities. Look, more than that, we need to look at the future, and now, too, at this time, we need to talk about the culmination of the approval process of the territorial area plan of Catalonia's housing sector, which is the full route for the next fifteen years. And yes, we have added a point, because it allows us to ensure, from the presuppositional availability, that we can economically finish pulling this plan forward, that we guarantee public housing policies in our home. Therefore, we urge all groups to commit themselves to dignifying Catalans and Catalans, working for access to a decent habitat. Mirin, we're political, because we're ruling this country and we're running alongside people. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.229.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix her position, the deputy Maria Sirvent has the word, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.230.0	Well, good afternoon. We see that this proposal speaks of a system that does not only allow, but which blatantly encourages speculation with people's right collections. Some institutions that have gone uncomplicated with what they have done have continued to make fiscal policies and policies of the very concrete nature that have led us to this situation, that have encouraged construction and tourism as a motor of economic activity, that have encouraged the purchase and have disauthorized the loguer as a real alternative, that have forced us to borrow to keep a house. A big scam. Mortgages full of abusive, preferential clauses, misdemeanours to thousands, 60,000_million euros in bank bailout, the sale of Catalonia Caixa to BBVA months later for the deu_per_cent of the value for which it had been acquired. What's the responsibility of the bank? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He's done absolutely nothing. You know no one will give up floors because they will. You know that you won't be able to get enough out of it with the tanteig and retraction. Calen valiant solutions. Let's fix it to transform society. We have recovered Rumasa's expropriation law, and we saw that what was considered of public use and social interest was expropriating 21 failed properties, 8 promoters, 18 banks; we see, too, a company, Alcohols and Wines, SA... It is that the State was managing a shop of luxury Loewe articles, but it turns out that to expropriate floors does not serve, and therefore the law does not serve to expropriate the floors to put them in favor of the people. Today, especially we wanted to send a hug to the family, friends and companions of my old terrace to whom he killed an unjust system, to whom he killed a system that precedes the banks to the people. They expropriate what's ours and what they do now. They expropriate what is ours, because all the floors of Sareb have been paid for a long time. Don't you see they're accomplices to the state murders? Can't you see that there are people who lose their lives every week to suffer the anguish of a denunciation? There are no more declarative proposals, we want solutions now. They expropriate the floors, and they do it now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.231.0	Thank you, sir. Finally, also to fix his position, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word the deputy Santi Rodríguez. [[Pause.]] Are you talking about the escho? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.232.0	From the escho, yes, President. Thank you. Well, this is a young man we've seen who was trying to sweep some things with some other, and in the end, then, he still had a more different orientation, right? He's talking about bank bailouts; the first discrepancy would actually be with the title, right? Because those that were rescued, or those that were rescued, were the caskets of estalves, which conceptually are financing entities quite different from that of the banks. And then, then, come in with the Sareb, to say: "Listen to me, how the Sareb has floors, the Sareb that lay floors for social loguer. If I don't get it wrong, in Catalonia at these times it has already yielded a thousand_cent habitats: nine hundred to the Generality, two hundred to the Assembly of Barcelona, for social loguer. I don't know if they've all landed on the market properly or not. Next. It is not that you have made any illusions, nor that you make any illusions about defending the rescues, it is obvious, but it is to say that the rescue of the student boxes was in general interest, exactly as the rescue of the Generality of Catalonia. Of course, EUR 54,000_million. Home, he assembled very much in the rescue of the caskets of estalvi. I, why? So, for the benefit of the general interest, to be able to guarantee public services and because society does not get involved. Certainly, those who do a better favor to the funded entities are those who seem to have the say in their eyes. Those who want the assumptions of Podemos to be adopted, that what they do is more deficient, means more debt, and, therefore, more business for the bank. Congratulations. And finally, with the motion going on about housing policy and housing policy being a competence of the Generality, which seems to have been forgotten by the Republican Esquerra Group that supports the Government, what they propose in their motion are addressed proposals, or demands addressed to state entities, such as the Sareb, or to the assemblies, and, in the alternative, we found that we lacked to talk about specific measures for the Generality of Catalonia. So, as more than a man to demand responsibilities, it seems like a man to do away with responsibilities, our group will abstain globally from all of it, except for the only point that has been incorporated in the first place, which is the second, that what the Generalitat asks is that it must finance the territorial plan of habitating, which is what enters into its competitions and its obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.233.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Now, in order to pronounce on the papers, Mrs. Eva Baró would have the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.234.0	Okay. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, can dress them like they do, they can give them the turns they want, they can argue with them as they seem better, I understand that many of you, that some of you are bothered by different, and contradictory, movements, on many occasions, that we are now working on a topic that holds for two years – two years. I would like to know how many times, how many of you have withdrawn from this Parliament a mandate to recover the cent_per_cent of the acts of the Sareb in two years. I'd say in no time. Don't you know what the lady's up to? Home! I'll explain it to you – I'll explain it to you – there's no problem. Miri, yield a minimum – not a maximum, a minimum – of 30_percent of the Sareb habitation fund to be able to dedicate to housing emergence. [[Widow's remorse.]] Oh, doesn't that sound good to you? Doesn't it look good to you? Turns out you're a mass... you're a wreath, you're not good enough. Well, so, you know, we'll explain to the families that this is little and that they will therefore vote against it. No problem. According to the point, that, for example – one of the things we want to highlight – allow the assemblies, through a modification of the additional sisena provision of the organic law, allow the assemblies and local corporations to over-exercise their right to storm and retract, in order to increase the social logger park, of social habitation. Doesn't that sound good to you either? They're also wreaths. Well, then, I like it because it turns out we're left alone, but we haven't done anything in a couple of years. Perfect. Third point. Create credit lines all following the example the Generality has made. Neither does it seem good, so you can fully exercise the right to storm and retract. I'm stupendous. No problem. Everyone's left here. To promote a legislative initiative in advance of the Congress of Deputies which has as its object the yield of 30_percent of immovables of the Sareb, nor does it seem good to them, it seems a little. So, listen, in two years you could have done a lot – a lot – more work than you've done. This, turning on a minimum consensus, it's always a difficult task, and it got to where it came from, and in the end the contrast between what they wanted, what they wanted, the priorities of some and the priorities of others, the income that some were looking for, and the income that others were looking for, has made this young man suffer a few minor changes in the original motion. I think that before you vote you should ask what message you are willing to send to the citizenry, who paid for the bank bailout and who suffered the economic crisis. And then they explain it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.235.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Once the debate is over, let's proceed to the vote on the motion. We're calling it a vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.236.0	To ask for a separate vote. Well, it's gonna be a little complicated, but for us the 2.b, the 2.d and the 2.e can go together, and the rest should go separately, if it can be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.237.0	2.b– de« Barcelona –, 2.d– de« Denmark – and 2.e?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.238.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.239.0	Everything?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.240.0	These can go together... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.241.0	Yeah. Mr. Rodriguez... are you sure? ...asking for other points in a separate vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.242.0	Well, then I also have the 1st and 2nd, which...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.243.0	No, no, I said, Mrs. Granados, that Mr. Rodriguez is making gestures, that he is voting all separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.244.0	Yeah. It'll be easier.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.245.0	So, if it seems like it, we vote separately all the points, and it'll be simpler, huh? [[Pause.]] Let's move on, then, to vote on the motion point by point. We'll vote first on point 1. The vote begins. The first point of this motion was approved by 113 votes to 13, with 13 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point two, I understand. 2nd, yeah? The vote begins. Point 2a was approved by 113 votes to 8, with 5 abstentions. Let's just move on to vote on point 2.b. The vote begins. Point 2.b was approved by 68 votes to two, with 56 abstentions. Let's just move on to vote on point 2.c. The vote begins. Point 2.c was approved by 61 votes to 60, with 5 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on point 2.d. The vote begins. Point 2.d was approved by 66 votes to 6, with 54 abstentions. And finally, we proceed to vote on point 2. The vote begins. Point 2.e. was approved by 64 votes to 8, with 54 abstentions. I don't think there's any more... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.246.0	Thank you, President. To make our mistake aware of the vote in paragraph 2.d. Our vote has been forbearance and no vote affirmed, as we have done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.247.0	All right, stay clear. Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into infrastructure management]] [[302-00044/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the dowry, and it's the motion following the government's inquiry into the management of infrastructure, a motion presented to the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.248.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, we bring a motion today on infrastructure. Some people think about infrastructure and see only concrete and steel or multi-million-dollar contracts and electoral openings, but infrastructure is first and foremost a determining factor in the development of our territory, a determining factor in the well-being of the people who live in it, in the well-being of all of us. Mr Calvet, I thank you for your presence because your councillor, the Conselleria de Territori i Sostenibilitat of the Government of the Generalitat, has, precisely, thanks to the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy, a great capacity for action and a huge potential to improve our day-to-day life. And this is what this motion is about. Many aspects of our lives depend on what is done and how it is done in your office, and, in fact, many depend exclusively on what is done or how it is done..., as you or those who preceded it have done. In the motion we put on the table some of these issues, some of which are important to us and for which you are solely responsible. It is up to you, for example, that a student who lives on a Maragall walk and wants to reach the UPC North Campus today, by public transport, after almost an hour, when with the finished 9_de_metro line it would take approximately twenty_minutes. It depends on you, although it seems rather that you deny it, than someone who comes from Tortosa, who has a very long journey by train, because he has to do it on a train that sometimes fails. That depends on you, even if you hide it, because you have a very long journey because you could do it on a much newer train, more comfortable and especially less failed. They have held the service for ten years, but they have never wanted to take care of it really, let alone devote resources to it. Rodalies is the clear example, for you, that the worse, the better. It also depends on you that a resource as scarce as water in our territory arrives where it is needed, and that when it arrives it does so in a respectful, safe, sustainable and affordable way. And it is their exclusive responsibility when because of the mismanagement, the cost overruns and even the corruption in works such as the Segarra-Garrigues the water does not reach where it has to reach, or when it does so it is so expensive that it is unusable for the use for which it was intended. Or something simpler: it also depends on you that we have, or, rather, that we do not have dissuasive parking lots in which to leave the car in order not to contaminate the air of our cities. Or that our families travel safely on roads that when they are not well maintained cause situations of risk even for school transportation, as we have seen these past days on Twitter. And the last one I'm gonna mention. It was also up to you and those who preceded you that we already had a tram train manufactured, or almost manufactured, ready to place there in Salou, but we don't have it, counselor. And you can blame whoever you want, but that's entirely your fault. And you know what's going on, counselor? That you, the student who doesn't have line 9, the traveler who gets ruined by the train or the farmer who doesn't get the water, what you offer is a mantra. They tell him, even knowing that it is a scandalous lie, that all the fault is another's, that all the fault is Madrid's. And that's a huge lie. And they also stay so wide. Instead of focusing all your efforts on working to have more subway, better trains or water for our farmers, you are working to use victimism and manipulation to hide your stubble, your cost overruns and your corruption. And that's cheating. Luckily this deception is getting less and less, but it's going to cost us a lot to recover from everything they're leaving behind. And that's exactly what this motion is about. The aim of this motion is nothing other than to try to divert the Department of Territory from its separatist objective for a moment so that it starts working already for what citizens need, those who vote for it and those who do not vote for it. You were telling me, counselor, that you didn't understand me asking you about your plans for the next three or five years when you already had a plan, which is public, which we can all see. There'd be more to it. You guys have plans for everything. When I entered this Parliament, they had, in fact, an eighteen-month plan to achieve independence. For eighteen months is more or less what is left to finish the Infrastructure Master Plan, and I fear that the degree of compliance will be quite similar. That's why it's very important that you choose now. That's why I'm asking you to work. That said, they should deviate from their essential objective by a moment and concentrate on choosing the best way to use the few resources available to this indebted Government for infrastructure. The sooner we start working, the less it will cost to resurrect this disaster. Or do you think that working, prioritizing is not something that will be good for all citizens? The one who votes for you and the one who does not vote for you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.249.0	Thank you, Mrs. Bravo. It has the word to defend the papers presented, in the first place, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão with the deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.250.0	Well, good afternoon. From Catalonia to Comú We may have presented different presentations in this young man. In fact, also aggravate, in this case, to the group proposing, to the Ciutadans Group, the willingness to be able to agree to them and, finally, to compromise. In the first place, we have presented a theme that goes on the line that cannot be planned or designed the infrastructure, in this case, of the country, without taking into account an element that for us is fundamental that is the fight against climate change. There have been these days, recently, the COP24 summit in Katowice. It certainly did not come to the agreement that we would like, but it is true that they claim that the regulation should be pushed, in this case, to bring about the completion of the Paris agreements. And in any case, we believe that the planning of infrastructure, its execution cannot be done without care, in this case, right? , which the scientific community claims is that it is taking urgent measures, courageous to prevent that between the year 2030 and the year 2050, therefore, we have an increase in the temperature of 1.5 degrees, which would surely be irreversible for many countries and, finally, for many species of the planet. Some of the items that we did at the second point, that we can't give support at this point, are they different infrastructures very different, huh? And we have some important objections, I would say, for example, with the Gargoats. Because many times it's spoken a lot, in this case, isn't it? , line 9 and line 10 and the irregularities and cost overruns that have occurred on line 9 and line 10, but they also exist in the Segarra-Garrigues, which I think we have to do to investigate, and also to investigate the intense use of water, especially for regadius, what would I do, in this case, right? , the defined Deployment of the Snake-Garrigues. And, second place, too, the enlargement, I'd say, the extension of the C-32. That is something we have also discussed, quite simply, with the Committee on Territories. The Councillor knows that we do not share, in this case, the will of the Government of the Generality to extend the C-32 beyond Blanes. Among other things because, as SOS Costa Brava denounces, it forms part of a certain urbanistic model that places a lot of pressure, in this case, on the Costa Brava south. And, besides, it also has an important landscape and even environmental impact: it can cause, in this case, the destruction of more than sixty thousand trees, and we are talking, too, of a road infrastructure, and, therefore, it also has connotations for what it does to the fight against climate change. The third point goes in the line that is needed..., because of the delay in the entry into force of the T-Mobility... – that the adviser has also announced that he will soon come to the Committee of Territories to give explanations because we do not know yet who are the exact reasons that led us to this new delay of the T-Mobility, that we understand that it is a new disaster on the part of the Government of the Generality –, makes us follow with a heaviness, in this case, between territories; for example, with the people who saw Terrassa, with the people who saw Manresa, with the people who saw, for example, the Vendrell, right? , which uses the station of Sant Vicenç..., because they have a tariff zone depending on different mileages, for example, Mollet also respects Castelldefels, right? , with kilometers lower than distance respects Barcelona, but they take precedence over the use of public transport, and that we think that we are highly dissuasive for, precisely, an infrastructure that is key, that is the network of rolling stock and also, obviously, the metro, for the struggle against climate change, because the use, obviously, the conjunction of the people of Catalonia. And, finally, the fourth issue is – we have already asked for the right and the reverse – in this case, the deployment of the Public Transport Finance Act. And we ask that the year 2019 is definitively deployed, above all, to get more resources. I told the Economy Councillor yesterday, and I can tell you today because, in fact, I was going for you, for Mr. Damia Calvet, Territorial Councillor. I said to him, "Miri, I stopped making a fool of myself, didn't I? , standing against the tariff freeze, because you are the president, in this case, of the ATM Administration Board. The Generality has 51_percent of the Board of Directors. So, in this case, you ended up accepting something that we claimed from us and that we claimed from Mayor Ada Colau. And we share with you that the network needs more investment and that we want to develop new infrastructures, we need more resources. And here are two possibilities, and we're following them from the table. First, I approve, in this case, the general assumptions of the State. There are 40 million euros that go directly to finance ATM and that can go for the investment. And we have told you by active and passive that you are blocking some general assumptions of the State that are good for Catalonia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes..., you, your matches: the PDECAT, Junts per Catalunya, Convergence... I mean, so much rides, so much rides. Anyway, we give it to them. And, second of all, the other thing we're planting is: they're deploying the tax measures of the Public Transport Finance Act. We have the law in force from the year 2015. We have submitted it to the Committee on Territories. We have presented it to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We voted here in the Parliament of Catalonia. Therefore, I say it another time: I stopped making the ridiculous position against a tariff freeze, that I think it helps more people to use public transport, and, if we want more investment... – that I think we can share this, you and us – that we want more investment in public transport and infrastructure, in this case, public transport, so we approve the general assumptions of the State and, in this case, we also deploy, in a definitive way, the Law on the financing of public transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.251.0	Thank you, Mr. Cid. Next, also, to defend the papers presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word deputy Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.252.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, counselor..., look, Mrs Bravo, we came here hoping, deluded by the fact that we could come to an agreement and have agreed, and therefore wanted to thank him from the outset for his willingness to accept and to trade the papers that I have presented – and some accept them directly – and, in any case, so much so, to thank him there. I also wanted to thank him for the fact that, at some points, let's say, of the same motion, of entry, it is already said that the investments must be made according to the presuppositional availabilities. And that's what I wanted to thank you for, but it's taken away from me much of what you've used from this Faristol, because you said that, from the government, it's about a mantra, it's about... Esconti, miri, 7,500_millions, 7,500_millions of infrastructure debts in this country, promises of the third additional arrangement, of investments, of plugs that never arrive, huh? , of one government and another and, therefore, thousands and thousands of promises and millions and, in short, knows who is the great harmed? The citizens of this country. It is the citizens who go or try to use the public transport of this country in conditions, think what they think, talk what they speak and vote what they vote, the injured are all. And that's the demand of this government, Mrs. Bravo. Claim the investments that will bring us closer to the country. It's nothing more. When the transfer of Rodalies was made, you also, theoretically, had to make an investment – and you know it, you know it well – and these investments were not made. Therefore, do not bring us here saying that it is all the fault and responsibility of the Government of the Generality. Here, there is a sequence of questions – and you put some on the table – that are a constant failure of the Government of the State; no interest of the Government of the State to invest. One of the points of the motion talks about the need of the Mediterranean Corridor. Totally agree – Totally agree. But what did the state government do with the Mediterranean Corridor? Re, absolutely re. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, it's not that I've done a little, Mrs Bravo, it's that you have sought alternatives to the Mediterranean Corridor to pass them through the center, to Madrid, to go to search the Central Corridor, in accounts to try to favor the economy of Valencia, Catalonia and other Spanish territories, eh? , which, in any case, supposes a million of everyone's living conditions and they are going to look for railway alternatives that they do not carry, that are an economic nullity, like so many other investments. As the radial highways – as you know –: the big deals, let's say, of some families in Madrid with the theme of radials. We have presented some ideas and, in the same vein..., on the issue of motorways, on the line that, in the last few years, we found ourselves – and you participated in it – in the group to talk about the high-capacity lives that the Government has created, based on a motion for a resolution approved for this Parliament. At that meeting he talked about some proposals, he talked about having a model, which we all talked about defining a model, and you, in your proposal, especially, said to me: "Look, it is clear that there is no comparison between autonomous communities. Miri, Mrs. Bravo, the only comparative weight of highways is in this country: 47.34_percent of the high-capacity lives of this country are tolls, in front of 18.73 lives of high-capacity tolls to the rest of the state, demolition. Madam Bravo, do not come to demand anything from the Government of the Generality. Require the Government of the State to agree with this law that we are patenting the citizens of this country every day – every day – because to access any end of this country we have to end up paying, because the inversions of free autovies, such as the N-II, to set an example, that still does not know the finalization – surely, we will see before the end of the Holy Family that the N-II – and therefore from this point of view, there was no intention. We insist, we will give support – I have already announced it before – to the totality of the points, because you have also had to accept some of the points; some have not been accepted, but we will also give support, but in any case you know that on some of the concerns, such as the maintenance and preservation of the lives of this country, the Government of the Generality has been inverted. A little while ago it was announced, and to set an example, an investment of up to 2 million euros to improve the bikers' safety lanes and, therefore, from this point of view, we are working on it. And, therefore, from this point of view, we have been working and still working. For what he does to the law of ports, one of the other points that you raised, is a bill of law that was approved for this parliamentary chamber, for the corresponding committee, but he did not see it being the plenary of this chamber. That, in any case, the Government of the Generality is doing well to enter the next few weeks, so that we can..., make some modifications and we can also approve it. And finally, the approved emena, let's say, of the group of commons, also to deploy the Law of financing public transport, we will also give support. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.253.0	Thank you, Mr. Bloods. To defend the papers presented, finally, has the word the deputy Eduard Pujol, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.254.0	Well, thank you very much, Vice President Costa. Councillor Calvet, in a normal country, when it comes to infrastructure, it's about prosperity, but in a country with exile, political prisoners and politicians in a place of fame, it must also be remembered that it has not prospered without freedom. Territori's advisor, Josep Rull, is supposed to be here today and there can't be, there can't be. The State, as a whole, wants us to believe that everything is normal, as if nothing happened. This runaway is a huge irresponsibility, it's an absolute amorality. I have listened to Mrs Bravo's opening statement, and I will tell you that we will vote in favour of the motion, because we are voting in favour of the good intentions that are in favour of the territory, and because many of these points are already on the way, we cannot vote against our own government work. But your speech, Mrs. Bravo, has generated me negitated, because you barricades just petitions with a demagic exposition that denies the facts. They deny the historic hardship and infra-financing situation of Catalonia and the secular neglect of the State, you deny it. You're unable to locate where you're dealing with the responsibilities of each and every one of them. You do not denounce the recidivism of the State, which led, for example, to the obsolescence of Rodalies and, if we take the car, the State laissez-faire has blocked, for example, the main artery of the country, the AP-7, collided every day at its pace for the Valley and, meanwhile, the B-40 workers, seeing that it is working, but there is no work and a bridge to the Olesa de Montserrat high that does not carry away, because it leads to a tunnel that is not there. The State is able to do the A-27 in pieces. The highway that has to go from the port of Tarragona to Montblanc, but without making the tunnel of the Illa, that was the key piece to give felt to all this project. The Renfe and the modus operandi of the ministry, which presupposes and does not execute, explains very well the grip of the hair, the allergy of the State to complete the commitments, the pacts with Catalonia. Madam Bravo, the Ministry of Development is a great separatist command [[the timer riu]] , and if not, take the A-2 highway, at the height of Sant Andreu de la Barca, see visions, do not believe it, it is not an iron sculpture where they see it, no, it is a work that makes you, eleven years that started, that is on the march to connect the A-2 and the AP-7 and there is no way. It's not a disability problem, it's a problem of political will. The referendum diumens – the referendum diumens –, the State takes our hands and hands and, the rest of the year, punishes us by paralysing investments in infrastructure. Dimarts, Congressman Rivas, from Ciutadans, spoke of Joan Manuel Serrat. So, miri, a few years ago, Catalonia was like the disbanded Penelope, who expected her love of the season, "sitting on a green pine bank and the love of Penelope, which never arrived, like the rain of millions that each two for three the ministry announces for Catalonia, millions that never arrived. The State, at these heights, knows that we will not wait for trains that do not arrive, that do not pass. We've decided to put ballot boxes and we've decided to take our train. And, if you want to make lists, Mrs. Bravo, in advance, we won't win, we have the country at the head. We have to unfold the axis of the Hebrew; the C-15, between Vilafranca and Igualada; the C-16, between Berga and Bagà; the C-58 has faults; the variants of Olot are urgent; the C-66, and we have to actually finish the line 9 and 10 of metro, and we have to connect the metro of the Vallès with the metro of the Lower Llobregat-Anoia, that the cart, to hear 'us, did not stop at Plaça Espanya and arrive until Grace. And, certainly, speaking of basic things, the tram to Salou and Cambrils is also basic. But it's not just about saying what we want to do, it's also about saying how, how it's paid. If you defend infrastructure, schools, support the company as they defend 155, Catalonia would be fine. From Junts per Catalunya, we defend the Republic, we want tools, we want tools because we want future. And what do you want? What do they want? « One, big and free? Okay. So we defend Catalonia from opportunity, and opportunities are built with tangible as a good public transport network and with the intangible – the intangible – of living in a free and democratic society. And, by the way, if you ever have to apply this 155 to all hours, if you ever come up with this barbarity, do us a favor, you can send it to Rodalies or you can send it to the national 340 to the Jew or the variant of Vallirana, which will be the most effective way that 155 never arrives in Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.255.0	Thank you, Mr. Pujol. Then, to fix his position, the deputy Jordi Terrades has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.256.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, on 8 November, this plenary approved a motion submitted for my parliamentary group that the sentiment was similar to that presented today by Mrs Marina Bravo; therefore, I am already advanced that our parliamentary group will support it. And in that motion, which also referred to the competencies and the action or inaction of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, and to the question before the Councillor and the Government made the following reflection: nine years ago, the percentage of infrastructure in the overall expenditure of the Generality was around 13-14 percent of the overall expenditure and, at these times, the reversal was reduced to half, huh? I also told him that the levels of reversal in the public work of the State were not the right ones either. If Catalonia represents a 19_percent of GDP and a 16_percent of the population – I leave the decimals – then we will observe that, in the last assumptions of the Government of the State, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, therefore, we arrived, in good faith, at 12_percent, eh? So, here, we had some difficulties and we needed to increase this level of reversal, huh? Because infrastructural investment means, precisely, accompanying the country's modernization and economic competitiveness. It also serves to improve public transport and capture more users, on the line of one of the effective policies to mitigate the effects of climate change. And, therefore, as Deputy Cid reminded him, and I also reminded him in that inquiry, we do not understand... and this week, this very week, when I asked him about air pollution, air quality, we do not understand that the groups that support the Government and that also have representation at the Congress of Deputies are adopting general State assumptions that would help to increase the state's public investment in Catalonia and that would help to improve public transport financing. I think it is necessary to have assumptions in Catalonia and assumptions in Spain. Why? So, to increase the reversal, precisely, and also to be able to complete those debts that exist from the non-application of the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy. Certainly, I'll give you a parentheses. You know that the Illa col tunnel has had some cost overruns due to the issue of surviving clays, that this has needed to modify the project and that the Council of State, now days or fifteen ago, has given green light to the reversal and that the State may..., or that the Government of Spain may restart this award. And don't worry, Mr. Pujol, that you will soon have news from the Government of Spain in a positive way. In that very motion which was approved, the Parliament, the House of Commons put it right to the Government. In terms of six months, he must present us, beyond the Pla Director of Infrastructures, who are the priorities of the Government in the matter of reversal in this sense. We didn't mention any of them, did we? Among them, we also refer to what Mr Pujol was talking to us about, which is this connection of Railways of the Government of Catalonia between the lines of the Vallès and the line of the Llobregat. I, talking about the Llobregat line, huh? I hope that the 155 will not apply again to Catalonia. Now, if up for the infrastructure that you mentioned and then the Railways of the Generality, of the line of the Llobregat, are left, sure – sure – that they do not arrive in the Parliament of Catalonia. Because you know perfectly – you know perfectly – that the line of the Llobregat, of Railways of the Generality, is one of the lines that needs obvious better. Going from the Spanish square to Martorell – and if we go further – is an odyssey. At these times there are five speed-limited trams at thirty miles per hour, huh? , trains, so as to avoid security problems of this line. Probably in the railway themes we have a lot of work to do, both for what he does to the service of rollers corresponding to the State, the infrastructures, did not manage, that correspond to the Government of the Generalitat [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I finish, President – and to the railway lines of the Generalitat de Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.257.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Call. Parole has the Member of Parliament, Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.258.0	Good afternoon. The motion presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, from our point of view, is a barrier that introduces in a single bag a multiplicity of problems connected to public transport, to motorways, to the Segarra-Garrigues channel, to the draft law of ports, which do not have any meaning unless it is to accomplish a clearly partisan objective. In fact, the only common denominator of the movement is the model of indirect joint privatisation from the administrations of the Spanish State and the Government of Catalonia to benefit the great builders and banks, at the same time, and harm the users of these infrastructures. Precisely, banks and companies of IBEX 35 have financed the promoters of this young man, Ciutadans, as well as other parties of the parliamentary arch. For years, state and autonomous administrations have promoted the construction of pharaonic infrastructure within the Principality, under the formula of public-private collaboration. The rotating doors have brought territorial and political advisers into the concessionary enterprises of infrastructures and public services; the costs of construction have exceeded by 35 and 85_per_cent the initial presupposition, both on the Barcelona tram, as on the L9 of the metro, as you know, unfinished works, with nine-year delays and with presuppositionary deviations in the Segarra-Garrigues channel, and we could continue. In parallel, banks, international investment funds and concession firms have reported hundreds of millions of euros of benefits to their shareholders, while users bear the consequences of this neglectful political management. For these motius, from the CUP - Constituent Creed, we consider that the recovery of sovereignty over the infrastructures of our country is a necessary element to guarantee a 100% public, transparent and popular management, to the service of people and not of capital. Therefore, we consider it necessary to obtain the ownership of those public infrastructures managed for the Spanish State, mainly the airports, the ports of Barcelona and Tarragona and an essential part of the railway and road network; to increase the investment and reduce the tariffs of public transport in order to reach gratuity, to make it accessible to the popular classes, and, thirdly, to approve a moratorium on the construction of the new motorways and the expansion of existing ones, not to renew a concession of motorways or tolls in the shade and to create a public company that manages them. For all these questions, we believe that the CUP will not participate in the vote on this motion, although we have raised our position. If it is true, we would also like to take advantage of these last seconds to thank the honourable Member for the willingness to change this point of the order of the day, because as with CUP - Crida Constituent we may have room for the act where we are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.259.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. And, finally, it's the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The word has the deputy Santi Rodríguez, from the escó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.260.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, this is a young lady I'm... well, after I've heard the interventions, too, so it'll probably come out okay. Because at the end of the day, I don't think there's much disagreement about who the investments are and who the infrastructures are that have to be done. There may be some specific discrepancy with respect to some infrastructure, but I think there is a broad agreement with regard to the fact that infrastructure, one, must be planned; two, it must be seen who are the most important and how it will be paid; three, it must be maintained in good condition and, therefore, especially to repair those points which may be more conflictive and which may generate more conflict; four, it must obviously improve public transport services, either on the road or through other media. Therefore, I believe that, fundamentally, the problem is not here. I believe that the key to the whole fold is precisely in point 2, and in a theme that has been incorporated, that is to ‘plan certain infrastructures according to the presuppositional availability. This is the key to the whole fold. And this is the authentic element that will define if all the plans that can be done can be completed or not completed. But as others look at the responsibilities outside Catalonia, I think what we have to do is look at where the responsibilities between Catalonia are. And in this sense, I think there are two fundamental elements. A first, the fact that there are presuppositional prorogations is often used to preventing new investments from starting; no, often, no, that is, without presuppositions or multi-year investments or no new investments can be made. Therefore, as in the past six years, the result of a manifest political incapacity, there have been three presuppositional prorogations – we will see if, a few days from now, we have a new one, certainly, at least provisionally – which has also prevented us from approaching new infrastructures. Second, the fact that there was a circumstance a few years ago of a major crisis and a reduction of significant resources also prevented us from bringing forward new infrastructure projects, both in Catalonia and in the joint state, obviously. And third, what is often referred to a little in this Parliament and should be spoken of more: the bill of more than 11,500_millions that left the tripartite pending payment until the year 2041– 11,500_millions to pay until the year 2041 – which causes, for example,...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.261.0	Vagi ending, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.262.0	... – I finish – which causes that, for example, any other year, is paying more money for the bill that left the tripartite that no real investments that is fan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.263.0	All right. So to position yourself on the exams is the return, again, of the deputy Marina Bravo. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.264.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'll be very brief. Mr. Sanglas, I apologize that the tone has been critical, but it is that we are, personally, very tired of hearing all day that you would do better, that that is the solution to all our problems and that all the fault is Madrid. Hence the critical tone. You know perfectly well that the delay in the Mediterranean Corridor outrages me as much as you do, but do not talk to me about the Mediterranean Corridor or the radial motorways, that those are not a problem of yesterday, precisely. And we've just arrived at Congress. Those who have agreed and supported investments and budgets years after years to governments of all colors have been you. You'll know what you've negotiated. And they say I don't assign each of them their responsibility. Ask your fellow members of Congress what we think there when you talk about Rodalies or when you talk about railways, in general. But if Rodalies goes wrong, or in Granada for three years without a train, the solution is not to ask for independence, the solution is to fight and work to solve those problems for all the citizens. We're doing it. To each one, what it is, of course, but tell me you– tell me you– what does that deficit have to do with you calculating the 9_de_metre line, which was going to cost 2,000_million, and go for 6,000. And it's just that I'm not even counting deferred funding. I'm not counting that. I'm telling you, a 2,000-million-dollar play is already worth 6,000. Has anyone from the Ministry of Development infiltrated to direct the work? Tell me what it is, because I don't understand what it has to do with it. And on the amendments of the other groups, well, of the other groups not, of all the groups, just thank you for being so willing to negotiate, because of course there has been negotiation. Even the PSC for withdrawing the amendment it had tabled. What I believe is that it shows that even the Spanish Government sees the advantages of recovering the Reus-Roda and I hope that this will soon make it in the budgets and reflected in the procedures that are needed to carry out it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.265.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] I understand you don't. [[Long break.]] Let's go ahead and vote on the joint motion. Yes; Members, Members, let's start the vote. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.266.0	We're asking for a separate vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.267.0	Say... all the time, I've made a call, and I think I've repeated it two or three times, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.268.0	Yeah, I admit I was having fun. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.269.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.270.0	Point two, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-19-2203.271.0	All right. Let's vote, so... with the fact that we haven't started voting yet, you can vote separately. We're voting for the number two point in the vote. The vote begins. Point 2 of the motion was approved by 113 votes to none, with 8 abstentions. Let's go vote for the rest of the young man. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved unanimously: 121 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] There are no more points to deal with. The session is suspended until tomorrow at three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much.
