ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government on the competitiveness of the Catalan economy]] [[300-00061/12]] The fourth point of the order of the day is the inquiry to the Government on the competitiveness of the Catalan economy, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The honourable Member, Mr Santi Rodríguez, explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Vice President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. The June of this year was presented by the Observer of the Red Cree, which consists of a survey of people who need basic help during the year 2017. And the results of this observer, who then presented us, just over a month and a half ago, here in Parliament, were that 35,8_percent of the people who needed basic help during the year 2017 no longer needed it during the year 2018. And among the motives for which they no longer required these basic help from the Red Cree, the main one, in an 80_per_cent, was that those people had found work. Therefore, the focus on the importance of the competitiveness of the economy is a basic social focus, because economic growth depends on the creation of jobs, and on the creation of jobs also on the basis, in good measure, that people stop needing certain social help and, therefore, can start a new life project. They're not definitive solutions, obviously, but it's the way to the solution. And, therefore, for us, this is the importance of the competitiveness of the economy. Obviously, there are many aspects that affect the competitiveness of the economy of a region, of an area, of a country, let us say it as usual. And obviously, in a decentralized state like ours, there are competitions that are from the State, there are competitions that are from the Generality, and surely, to a lesser extent, the assemblies also have some influence. We will discuss issues that are obviously the competence of the Government of Catalonia, some of which is the direct competence of the Department of Economics, but of course it is very multidisciplinary, there are many aspects that depend basically on the whole government. We therefore believe that the view that the Vice-President of the Government can also give an answer to this question is uncertain. And the first of the elements we want to put on the table is in relation to a report, too, that we wanted to know last week, in relation to the fiscal competitiveness of the Spanish communities. And, in this sense, Catalonia appears – it's not new either, is it? , because it's already a little historical in the past few years – the last community in this group of communities. And, concretely, it specifies that there are three taxes that are the ones that engage in this last position: income, the tax on property transfers and assets. In addition, on income, it refers to the existence of major deficiencies in the structure of the tax system, which we trust can be solved with a proposal of law that we have precisely presented from our parliamentary group, in the fundamental sense of reducing this tax to 80_percent of taxpayers, who are those who declare receipts less than 30,000_euros, who are those who pay more than all of Spain. But there is also another element in fiscal competitiveness, worrying, which is the proliferation of favourable taxes. Also this study of the Union of Contributors, but also of the General Council of Economists of Spain, we say – we can know perfectly well – that Catalonia has separate taxes propitious, two of which are still not put into operation, while the next community on behalf of tax propitious is Andalusia, with eight. Therefore, there is an important difference. According to what we also believe to be important and relevant: the legal security of economic activity in Catalonia. And here, therefore, obviously, you will allow me to refer to the political situation and the instability that this generates and the lack of confidence in the messages, even of the same government of the Generality. And there is, today, an obvious concern about the impact that it can have on the economy and on many aspects of the economy, on 21st December and this certain ambiguity that the Government of the Generality has maintained in relation to what may be its own diverging. But allow me to give you another given, given demography. If I have time I will also talk about demographics strictly, but about business demography. Until November 2018 and with annual data – it is said, accumulations of the last year – Catalonia has created 16,339 new businesses, which are 1,176 fewer than in the same period of the past year. It is to say that the rate of creation of entrepreneurs has dropped in a considerable way in Catalonia; but, moreover, if constitutional capital is analyzed – with forgiveness, in relation to the capital for which the enterprises are constituted – we will see that the reversal decline – because, in the end, this ends up reflecting the reversal – it is 287_millions and, concretely, a 30_cent less than in the same period of the past year. Therefore, we understand that it is a symptom and a given to take into account and try to correct. Another aspect that we have discussed some time ago with the Business and Employment Advisor, the evolution of foreign investment in Catalonia. According to Idescat's data, then if we want to talk about the Financial Times and the IDF, right? However, according to the data of Idescat, which are materialized investments, girl investments, the fourth quarter of 2017 dropped a 45_per_cent, the first quarter of 18 dropped a 62_per_cent and the second quarter of 18 dropped a 16_per_cent. So it's worrying data. You are eager to go looking for the statistics of the IDF, of the supplement of the Financial Times. I also went to look for them and, in this case, the FDI Intelligence, which makes an approach to the European cities and regions that have the most potential for development. And, listen'm, surprise, neither Barcelona appears between the twenty-i-five, between the top twenty-i-five, of cities with economic growth potential, nor Catalonia does it in the top two in as diverse areas as can be the economic potential or the human capital or the lifestyle. Exterior scale. We have seen, especially during the crisis, a trade surplus resulting from exports that have been growing, while imports of goods and services have been decreasing. Surely, surely, the effect of this reduction in imports is due to the fall in domestic demand as a result of the crisis we are experiencing. But there is an important element, during this crisis situation, companies have gained competitiveness. We're on board, aren't we? , the result of an internal devaluation and, therefore, the result of efforts by many people. But this has allowed you to gain competitiveness and be able to go out more. But at this point, we're detecting three concerns about foreign trade. Exports of low- and middle-low-tech products are growing, and, in change, exports of middle- and high-technology are falling. I therefore believe that this is an element to be analysed and taken into account. One element is that most of the companies exporting are multinational companies, some Catalans, other foreigners located in Catalonia, and, therefore, they have an important volatility that, therefore, should maintain the necessary stability conditions so that they continue to work at home and continue to do this export task. And finally, the third of the concerns is the evolution of exports. While 2017 closed with a good level of exports, an increase of 6.9_per_cent, the data we have on September of this year is from an increase of 1.8_per_cent. Therefore, it is an important content of exports. And, in this sense, they will allow us – because they have a certain tendency to do so – not to deny the sales of Catalan businesses to the rest of Spain that represent 40_percent of the business trade. For us this is not foreign trade, but as long as this question arises I also want to put them on the table that we don't need this situation. Time is running out, we will continue, in the next intervention, with some additional aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.4.0	Good morning; thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rodriguez, you have put on the table different elements, different data, different points of concrete series of data with the will, I understand, to formulate a description of the current state of our economy. Allow me to give you a little bit, on behalf of the Government, so some notes of which is our view of the structural aspects of the Catalan economy that we have today, which in many of which go..., therefore, are part of the different articles that were published in the last economic note, published by the Department of Economics, and that I am convinced that it has read it and that, those that have not done so, I recommend it. In the first place, from the beginning of the Catalonia crisis to the middle of the European Union and the middle of the State. In terms of potential GDP, we are already at the brink of potential GDP and are therefore paying off this potential GDP, to the gap to be covered by the crisis, so that growth taxes will be reduced by a small amount. We have very competitive countries around us, countries that are our competitors, that have lower growth taxes. So, obviously, we all like the gross domestic product to grow, but a more moderate growth while it's constant over time and it's a good boost, in itself, it's not bad. What is important, therefore, is that today, growth is centered in those territories, both at the level of the State and at the level of Europe, which have higher taxes. You mentioned, therefore, the statistics of business demography. A year ago we had an offensive on the ground, on the sea and on the air, on all the media, let's say, at the level of communication, where an apocalyptic panorama of the Catalan economy was drawn. One year later, the Catalan economy continues to grow above the mid-Spain economy; the Catalan economy has a four-point positive differential in relation to the Spanish tourist tax; the Catalan economy, this year, has returned to an absolute balance in terms of exports. Therefore, despite that "for them we felt, now a year ago, in economic terms; despite the express decree to facilitate the release of their social of Catalonia, 2017, the number of entrepreneurs domiciled in Catalonia grew by 2_per_cent. And today, there are more than 600,000, in Catalonia, of which, a 10_per_cent with characteristics of recurring exporters. In the field of foreign investment. In the foreign investment, and you know it perfectly well, we will make a mistake if we look at a one-quarter spot. The series are important, and they are as wide as possible. Why? Because there have also been investments and corporate operations in foreign investment. Therefore, we can find that a purchase of a large Catalan company by a foreign company, in computing as an investment, distorts our data, right? And, so, what's important here? Look... you've done it with the four-quarter retrospective, but it's important to look at the long term, and above all, with definitive data – especially with definitive data – which is the evolution of foreign investment in Catalonia. And it's also important what we're doing from the government. From the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge and from the Agency Action are monitoring themselves towards four hundred investments, and therefore we believe that we are at an appropriate rate in terms of competitiveness. Then I will end up focusing on the aspects of competitiveness, on which we, like the country, should focus. He's been talking about outside swings. When we look at the external balance of goods and services, because what we bring to the European economy is not only good, it is not just merchandise, it is also in the field of services..., we have, at these times, a positive balance of 12_percent of gross domestic product. In fact, if we were an independent state, in the mark of the monetary union, our partners would ask us to reduce this balance. Because everyone knows that one's positive balance is one's negative balance. Any surplus has a symmetric deficit; or, in any case, a symmetric deficit spread across the other territories. But, despite that, in exports we're fine. Here we must not hide our eyes from what is happening in the global economy and the European economy. The end of the benefits, the sustained increase in the cost of energy, the end of the expansion policy of the European Central Bank, the easing of some of the most important economies in Europe and the world; this affects us, especially the Catalan economy, which is an economy that has been characterized as an open and innovative economy. When the Catalan economy has maintained this twin name: openness and innovation, it has increased competitiveness and has managed, therefore, to increase its growth in order to advance towards this shared prosperity. If we look at it in terms of occupation, we don't only have a rate of attitude that, at these times is already at 10_per_cent, that we expect to be below 10_per_cent at the length of the year 2019, but that, if we look at the occupation rate – it is to say, the people occupied in relation to the population of fifteen to sixty-four years, which is the rate of attitude – we have a higher or higher occupancy rate than the European average; higher than the Spanish average. Therefore, we have more people than work in relation to the conjunction of their population of this age. And if this happens and we now have a higher rate of unemployment than Europe is that there is a need in Catalonia and the State, because this is also a phenomenon that goes on at state level, to work. So, here's a handicap from the welfare state. Because there are people who might only have to work part-time, because they would be doing another activity, like training. Especially in... – and this is very relevant – in the realm, above all, of younger generations or in people who should not be working, because they would have to have social benefits that they would not be working on inadequacies in the labor market. So this is a deficiency in the welfare state. And for the welfare state, we need resources; resources that this country produces, resources that the workers and businesses of this country generate, but resources that we cannot dispose of. And, in this sense, one of the elements to which the honourable Member refers, as one of the competitiveness problems, I thought I heard, is the level of fiscal pressure in Catalonia. We believe that Catalonia must not compete, at fiscal level, it must not focus its competitiveness on a fiscal and labour dumping, as some countries have done at European Union level, and with some territories, at state level. Because this generates a downward spiral, puts vicious circles in the way where everyone ends up losing. We don't have to compete with a low-wage economy, or a low-tax economy. And with a state of acute well-being. We must be able to – and so we have done, in good part – compete in talent, in search, in innovation, in openness to the outside. Because this competitiveness is what sets in motion, contrary to a vicious circle, a virtuous circle, an upward spiral where everyone comes out winning. I already know that you would want to lower taxes everywhere, that we are going to Catalonia, like Ireland or Madrid, but we believe that this would be a mistake, because there has been no welfare without tickets, and we believe that precisely what we need to do is to penalise strongly, both at the level of the state and at the level of the European Union, tax dumping. In the realm of taxes, on which we have regulatory capacity, we find ourselves in the middle of autonomous communities. Therefore, in terms of competitiveness, more than some indexes than, obviously, so, if a tax is one or three different aspects and, therefore, it is three taxes, I believe that this is not an element to build an indicator of a tax competitiveness index. We are in the middle and in some areas, yes, in trying to tax the returns of capital, in trying to tax the great assets, we find ourselves over the middle. And, obviously, yes, we certainly have more taxes on it, then we'll get into the detail, but this is a country that has been betting on green taxation for many years now. It's the line of the future, where we have to keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.5.0	Thank you, Vice President. For the answer, it's the return, again, of the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.6.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, some response to his intervention, I did not want him to draw an apocalyptic panorama, which if I had wanted to remind him of the 5,250 companies that changed their social the last year in Catalonia, and I did not do so. And you're giving me the decree because the companies are changing their business, but the same decree serves because the companies are coming back. But there is a reality: continue to the government and the companies will not come back. In relation to foreign investment and analysis of short or long periods. We can already agree: in long periods we can analyze structural trends, in short periods we can analyze conjunctural trends. And that's what I wanted to put on the side of the table: there's a conjunctural trend, there's a conjunctural trend that has continued to reduce foreign investment in Catalonia. And I'm sure this situation is not alien to the conflict that has been sparked by the government since the end of last year. You've finally fallen into parany. I asked you not to sell them to the rest of Spain and you obviously, as I suppose it is natural, say: "Listen to me, if we were an independent state I don't know what, I don't know how many. Well, if we were an independent state, I would put at risk 40 percent of sales from Catalan businesses to the rest of Spanish communities. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you think so? So, look, you read on the note of economy that you yourself recommended to me that you get, concretely to page 158, you perfectly explain what the border effect is. That is precisely the effect that makes Catalan companies come more to the Aragó than to all France, or that it comes more to Cantabria than not to all the United States. That's the border effect. Therefore, with the proposal you make, what it does is put at risk, precisely, this 40_percent of sales of Catalan companies. Don't compete fiscally. Miri, if you want, we can agree. I'll take it. We won't compete for tax. You're still the first ones. Because you compete to be the first in taxes of all Spain. And here it's always locked up. Let's go in front of all the communities. It doesn't have to be the last, but it doesn't have to be the first. And, in this sense, Catalonia is the first time to pay thanks to decisions of this Parliament, thanks also to decisions of this Government. Look, we prefer money to run people and not governments. Therefore, we seek the right balance to guarantee public services, but also to ensure that people can use their resources to generate wealth and create jobs. Some other element that I had left in the tinter in the previous intervention: tourism. Tourism, fortunately, has been one of the sectors that has worked during the crisis and has benefited quite well from the economy. And it did so in a nutshell because of the geopolitical conflicts that our most direct competitors had. But as long as these competitors resume their geopolitical conflict, tourism begins, I will say nothing but to suffer, but it does begin to feel that these destinations, I insist, competitors and, after all, owners begin to recover part of the tourism they had lost. Therefore, she says: they do not fall into the mistake of generating more conflicts than what you do is that I still scare the tourism of our home. More elements: research and innovation, synthetically. I'm talking about research, they're on good levels. Obviously, we need to increase public investment, we need to increase private investment, etc. What concerns us about the economics note, too? We're worried about innovation. We are concerned about how research is moved after innovation and how it is moved after product and is moved to competitiveness. And, in this sense, there are elements like, for example, the need to boost innovation financing. He was talking about the democratic challenge, because, for example, the health system or education is also part of the competitiveness of an economy. Demography... a few days ago we also had data on the fact that the name of the births that occurred in Spain during the past year is the lowest of the entire historical series, concretely since 1941. And, therefore, this points to us, together with a very high life expectancy..., it points to a growing tension over sanitation, more than there is the result that the government does not allocate the necessary resources to it. On education, two aspects: investment in basic education for one side and attention to higher education and permanent training for another, which are elements that we also consider important. And, basically, these are the elements that we wanted to put on the top of the table, share with you and know your opinion of respect. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, it's the vice president's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.8.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, look, I'll start with a reference to the demographic issue. Which is... it's obvious that this is a challenge not just of Catalan society, of the rest of advanced economies. Enveloping has not only impacts on public accounts, but also impacts on the same dynamism of economies. Economies with a larger population are much more likely to be sustainable than to be non-consumer. This varies and has a clear impact on who are the monetary policy preferences, and we see when we look at what is the traditional positioning of certain countries in monetary policy and look at what is their democratic structure. In any case, some measures that we should push, that we should all be working, precisely, to improve the birth rate in our country? So the wages. And, in this sense, their political formation does not agree with some increments – as many other political forces agree – of the minimum interprofessional wage. And we understand that there is margin here and that there is margin without losing competitiveness. And, therefore, some..., to increase, that there is an increase in wages for the group of workers in our country is fundamental, because this allows us to have the economic security that makes many family units come to say, come, have a second child or, therefore, to hold a first, etcetera. Therefore, demographics, democratic policies are intimately linked to wage policies. I have never needed to sell them to the rest of the state, nor will I ever, because it is obvious that the Spanish economy is one of our main customers. In short, it is the main destination of our exports, but also the rest. It is also true that the Catalan economy has had a great capacity – especially if we look in the next thirty years – to participate in the European Union. You sell them outside the Catalan economy at these times are already almost doubling the sales in the conjunct of the Spanish economy. The dot of inflection, when it passed to the front, in the year 2008. Is that good or bad? It's good from the moment we have the eggs in different cysts and not in one. And, therefore, this is good in itself. But, obviously, the Spanish market is still a very important market, as the Catalan market is a very important market for the Spanish market – also very important. So, here, there are interests, let's say, digs. He refers to what you have already said: "We prefer money to be administered for people rather than for governments. Well, I, as far as I know, all governments form people, even all independent governments or the governments of the People's Party – we form people. If you're the one who... when, with this phrase, you're saying that you prefer to have a lower tax level because that ends up favoring major investments and you can end up favoring greater economic growth, that would be very important for me. Because it is true that we also like the money to be in the hands of people; but, without the redistributive intervention of public administrations, the money is in the hands of very poorly distributed people. Therefore, it is necessary to move forward in redistribution, which is one of the principles of public administration. And this is one of the functions, precisely, of the tax system, which must also have a redistributive impact, with performance, with public policies that favor equal opportunities and that therefore have a medium and long-term effect, and with investments that will favor the conjunction of citizenship. Therefore, we believe that money, as you say, "I prefer it to be in the hands of people, but it is in the hands of many people and not in the hands of a few. And that is why the redistributive function of the tax system is important. And in the field of tourism, I think we also need to highlight some positive things, because it's not all thanks to the outside environment. There has been an effort in the tourism sector of this country for plant renewal, product renewal, and we need to highlight this. The reduction in transport costs means that today we are not in a seasonal tourist economy, but that it has widened throughout the year. We have Barcelona as an important tourist attraction point. Now the challenge is sustainability in the field..., the sustainability of Barcelona as destination, as tourist destination. And for the rest of the country, it's true that with more holiday tourism, we have important challenges because competing markets, therefore, have become up-to-date or have overcome certain conflicts. I, finally [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] It is true: there are images that do not help people come to visit our country, and the 1st of October the images that they saw did not help people and data – to the data – in the field of tourism and shopping, on the part of trade, by foreign tourists, of October and November of last year, I quote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.9.0	Vice-President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.10.0	...happily recovered. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.11.0	Thank you. [[Question to the Government on fiscal policy]] [[300-00062/12]] The next question to the Government is about fiscal policy, presented by the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem. The question is made by Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.12.0	Okay. I also wanted to start my interview with some figures, surely they are different, but I think they are also important for setting the context, right? The year 2007 the inequality in the distribution of income to Catalonia was of a difference of 4.7 points between the lower quintile and the upper quintile. Currently, the year 2017, is 5.7 points and continues to grow with respect to the year 2016. The population at risk of poverty or social exclusion in Catalonia in 2007 was 20.8. That I think it was already an absolutely unbearable sifra. The year 2017 is 23.8 and continues to grow also in relation to the year 2007. Recently Andreu Missé in an article explained that 10_percent of the population of the richest State has gone from accumulating 44_percent of the net total wealth in 2008, to the Spanish State, to 53_percent in 2014. And so, too, the level of inequality each time has grown higher. And, if we talk about the financing system, 60,000_million euros lost in the bank rescue and the Spanish bank won, only the year 2018, its first six_months, 8,600_million euros, an 11_percent more respect of the year 2017. Therefore, it is clear that the picture of the crisis places winners and losers, in this case; there is obviously the one who worked it the crisis and that austerity policies, impossible deficit targets and lethal presupposition laws for public assumptions have had hard consequences on these public services. For us, the struggle against inequality and the redistribution of wealth, which you now make reference to, together with the struggle against climate change, are key challenges not only of Catalonia, but of the Spanish State, and also of the European and international context. They are clau, you in ugly reference, obviously, wage policy, minimum interprofessional wage for redistribution of wealth or revaluation of wages through, right? , negotiations of agreements; policies of predisposition, to guarantee rights, for example, in access to schools, which is also key to the policy of equal opportunities. But we also made proposals to the government in fiscal policy weeks ago to generate more tickets. We basically make these tax proposals for three purposes. The first, fighting inequality, which we believe is still a priority today in Catalonia. The second, redistributing wealth; it is obvious that they also affect competitiveness in the terms that are now proposed, more unequal societies. And we have a problem of hard inequality in Catalonia, in the Spanish State and also in the European Union. And that's also cult broth because especially right-wing parties can penetrate institutions and public debate. And, finally, above all, also, to increase the resources of the Generalitat vis-à-vis the assumptions of the year 2019; above all taking into account that those resources that we manage to generate through fiscal modifications are not subject to the rule of expenditure, but can be incorporated, in this case, in the assumptions of the year 2019. I take advantage, too, to tell you some things that we've already moved, which are supposed to be late, very late. I understand, Counselor, that we can already say, I have already said it, but you do not say it publicly – maybe today I can already recognize it – that we go to the presuppositional prorogation, eh? The new year's consequence, as much as you started this year, in this faristol, has compromised that this would not happen. And I think it's more proof of this chaos, governance, slowness, disorder, that his government has. They don't agree, they've been working too long to close a proposal for a budget, which we certainly haven't seen yet. We don't have a document, we just have a power point that they presented yesterday in a small advertising sale, with re-registered proposals, some of which they had already announced. And that, besides, they know that many of them are, not far, far from our lowest proposal, which we have brought to them. And, in addition, you have some data, which you know you can't hold on to. That is to say, you are talking, for example, about recovering absolute levels, in this case, from certain departments – we understand, for which you say the document, because we do not have the concrete numbers – from the year 2010, but it is that we are to 2018. And there are things like IPC, and, in relation value, for example, aren't there? Catalonia's gross domestic product has increased by EUR 34,000_million. Therefore, we are very far away still to reverse the detail, and then I will also mention, in concrete cases, such as, for example, university taxes, housing policy, zero-threes, dependency... So we have a lot, a lot, a lot of time to do it. And also, in this case, the delay in assumptions worries us because, if we finally get to agree and implement new fiscal measures, the recap will not be for the whole year. So, too, a new irresponsibility, I would also say 'a new leaven'. Before I go into the matter of proposals, I recognise it, that is, Catalonia has an absolutely inadequate financing system. I think this is also one of the fears we need to raise. Catalonia needs more realistic deficit targets. We agree with that, too. And, obviously, we need to end the presuppositionary law and the expense rule. And we, even if we're in opposition, are willing to accompany them. But we need you to be there too. Because, of course, you do not want to negotiate a new financing system for Catalonia; they said they are not interested. Nor do they want to participate in the negotiation of assumptions, which, moreover, obtains more resources for Catalonia and which, above all, draws, in this case, also, everyone says that they are very positive for Catalonia. Therefore, we... obviously, it is legitimate for you to have the objective of independence, we want to build a new plurinational state, with its own history, with a bilateral relationship with the State, but, meanwhile, you may find answers today. And we have made proposals to him in different ways. For example, with the inheritance tax. The 30_per_cent of the population does not leave inheritance or does not pay the tax. So, there's already a 30_per_cent, isn't there? Of the people with the least resources who don't pay that tax. We are in a recap that is practically a 60_per_cent less than we had two years ago after successive reforms. And today, bonuses benefit above all those heirlooms of more than 200, 400,000 and 800,000 euros. And we believe that through the bonuses it's where he went. We can increase the turnover substantially with the inheritance tax, 450_million euros is our proposal, which would affect only 18,000 people in Catalonia. And let's go, because someone said that Catalonia is one of the communities that has the most fiscal pressure. Catalonia, at these times, is located in the middle, middle-low, of those communities that have substantially reduced, in this case, the inheritance tax. With the IRPF, we don't understand its negative. We are making a proposal, in this case, that the maximum type that today is paid from EUR 175,000 is paid from EUR 120,000. We're not making anything up, that's what Valencia is doing. And, moreover, we believe that our proposal is more moderate up to and above that of the Botanic Pact, in this case, of the government agreement between the PSOE, Commitment and We can, because in this case, for example, they find that the 23.5 type is paid from 50,000 euros, and we are from 90,000 euros. Our proposal, which would affect only a 2-percent of the population, is to say, we are asking that the 2-percent that has more resources, which has more than certainly won with the crisis, can make a greater effort. What we're saying, in the end, is that a person, right? , which has a taxable base of EUR 120,000– EUR 120,000, eh? , 120,000_euros – we are not talking about middle class or popular classes, in this case, an allocation of 600_euros per year, 66_euros per month. Do you think we can't ask 66_euros more per month of effort from a person who earns 120,000 precisely to strengthen public services in sanitation, education, access to university? We think we have recourse. We also made a specific proposal on documented legal acts. I mean, now that tax pays the bank. We believe that by increasing, in this case, half a point, the type of mortgage tax, as you know colloquially, you can get €76_million. And I'm also on the subject of environmental taxation. Miri, we, in environmental taxation are very far, in this case, from the pesso of environmental taxes to GDP, not only from the State, which is 1.8 and Catalonia is around 0.36 to GDP, but to countries like Denmark, Italy or Greece. Obviously, yes, we are a little bit above, for example, Ireland, or, in this case, also..., or Spain, is a little bit above Ireland, and, in this case, Luxembourg, which in practice are tax havens, and as you said you do not want to compete, in this case, with tax cuts, so I welcome it, and I also welcome the fact that I rule out that the object, if ever higher than independence, is a tax haven, which seems to have been a thing until it came to be. We have the standard mark. They're late with the CO2 tax, in this case, of vehicles. There's an error in the law, let's fix it, let's work because this tax is out of the way by the year 2019. The territorial advisor said he'd be out of the 1st generation of 2019, and now you're telling us that, like a lot, he'll be out of the 2020s; so we're not inventing anything, we're out of the – you're not? – we approved the Climate Change Law. And I think it's important that environmental taxation does it too after especially touching taxes on big estates, making it high, and in this case also at the bank. Because, if not, people will have the feeling that energy transition is done unjustly. I, for that matter, didn't I? , can pass us with, for example, France. I therefore believe that what we are proposing is a comprehensive tax reform that clearly has to be taxed to make it high, taxed to great estates, taxed on banking, and finally, also environmental taxation. And I just told him that I'm also developing the Public Transport Finance Act once and for all. I... I know it's hard because it was a rock for the councillor of Territori, and now... you're already bringing it in, but tell him I stopped doing the ridiculous, because, in the end, it's against the freezing of public transport tariffs, because it says it punishes the reversal... we want more inversion and we want more public transport, but, of course, it's that he refuses to approve the assumptions of the State, that it's 40_million euros, and I'm telling him that these 40_million euros are because, if not, there's no general assumptions of the State and that's what the government of the Socialist Party said there, and so he said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.13.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.14.0	... Mayor Ada Colau. And, above all, develop the taxes that exist in the Public Transport Finance Act, which seems not to want them to develop. Therefore, we make proposals to him...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.15.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.16.0	...we want to work, and in the second...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.17.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.18.0	...intervention, we'll work out a few more things. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.20.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Councillor, honourable Members, Mr Cid, I believe that today's debate, before, with the intervention of Mr Rodriguez, and now with this, therefore, clearly demonstrates that the ideological debate is well-lived in this chamber, and I celebrate it, eh? Let's keep it that way. In any case, in the previous intervention they were concerned that we had a tax system in Catalonia that extended competitiveness, and that it was denied, and now they are asking, therefore, all the contrary. So, we're gonna say that with the government, we're not in one position or the other, are we? Even though I have to confess that I find myself more at the mercy of hers. From here, some generic considerations, and then I enter into taxation. First, it's true, Catalonia's GDP, in the past few years has gone from about 200,000_million euros to 250,000 euros. But it is also true that most of the Generalitat de Catalunya tickets are determined by the funding model. And here, I look at the important difference between autonomous communities: in Catalonia, the entries that come from the financing model represent approximately 11_percent of the Catalan gross domestic product. At Extremadura, the tickets that come from the financing model represent a 24_percent of the extremeny gross domestic product. In the case of Andalusia, an 18; the middle of autonomous communities, a 14. Therefore, the important element that in a system, let us say, decentralized, must be – we consider that not in this magnitude, but in a decentralized system must be – is a certain territorial redistribution of resources. At the level of the Spanish State we believe that it is excessive, and that what it does is also harm the tickets that correspond to Catalonia and that, in the end, are destined for the city of Catalonia, we have, as you have said, important reptes, with a poor rate, with citizens who are at risk of poverty around 20_per_cent. The presuppositions of the Generalitat de Catalunya will, yes, recover the current expenditure that they had in the year 2010 in the field of salvation, in the field of teaching, in the field of work and social matters. They'll get it back. We will have 1,640_million euros, which would entail major departmental expenditure from the departments, respect the last approved assumption, which is the assumption of the year 2017. The Departments of Education and Work and Social Affairs, two very important departments in these predispositional policies, in one part of the predispositional policies, those of the most social character, and two fundamental departments in the state of our country's welfare, will have an increase around 9_per_cent. And the Health Department will be the department that will have a major increase in absolute terms. In fact, in terms of actual expenditure in the field of salvation, the year 2018 will be in full history. Because, as you know, apart from the presupposition of Salvation, there is a whole series of expenses that, because there is a presuppositional limit, does not change; it is to say, by much to overcome the presuppositional claims, if it is to operate, it works, huh? – to be very simple –; if a dispensation of medicines is to be made, they are dispensed. And there are these adjustment mechanisms, which is the expense displaced. In terms of public comptability, account 409-411, which to the rest of autonomous communities is also there, and which will make this year 2018 we are at the expense conjunction, with maximum history of the Department of Health. Therefore, this government's bet is very clear – it's very clear. You say to me: "They have not brought the assumptions in time. Miri, I think that, let's say, in the area of the plenary of the assemblies, or in the area of the seats of the parliaments there is a lot of complexity, you know, you know their political formation, that governs the municipal institution of the most important country, that is the Assembly of Barcelona, knows the complexity with the scheme of majorities that we are going to, in this new political stage, not only in Catalonia but in the country's assemblies, in the Spanish State and in Europe, of fragmentation, it makes it more difficult. But we didn't give up. And we didn't give up on moving around and working on a presuppositional agreement. I come back for a moment: we will overcome the current expenditure of the year 2010, mainly in the social sphere, with our assumptions, but we will do so with a great difference. The year 2010 we closed the year with a deficit of 4.4_percent of GDP. I mean, I mean, the difference between what we entered and what we spent was negative for 10,000_million euros. At the year 2018 budget project, we recover the expenditure of 2010 with a deficit of 0.1_per_cent, 250_million euros. So tell him it's forty times lower. And this, in terms of financial sustainability, is very important, taking into account the clouds that we see very far away at the time, which we do not know whether we will end up with a lot of money or not, but that there is obviously an economic slowdown at global level, with a global economy like Catalan it is essential to have this vision of what the macroeconomic environment is, because in an open economy like ours, a slowdown in Germany, the United Kingdom or France, or the State, also, affects our exports, affects the purchasing capacity of tourists visiting our economy. Therefore, we must see. Therefore, economic sustainability, today, is fundamental, because, as you know, in capitalism economic crises are cyclical. And in economic crises there are processes of accumulation of wealth in the hands of those who have production media, huh? , tell us..., Marxism of P3, eh? Precisely because of this, what we propose is that in the tax field the reforms that should be produced, which really would be redistributive in the field of IRPF, would not be about the returns of the work. What you're proposing, that, listen to me, we can work on it, and we'll do numbers, we'll stick to our heads and I'm convinced that we can work together, and I'm convinced that we'll find points of agreement. But, to make major, to major entrances, more percentage of entrances to make capital than to make work. Therefore, the recourse to increase the tax on labor returns, which is what we can do on the autonomous scale, the Government of Catalonia, is limited. Limited in how much: how much with you and when without you. How much you, in quantity: impact, 35_million euros. It is an impact that in the terms of the pressupost conjunction does not allow substantial changes. But let's study it – let's study it. Now, the one that's the most uplifting for me, the one without you. That is to say, at what point we will actually have these resources at the disposal of the Generality of Catalonia. As you know, the IRPF does not recapitulate the Government of Catalonia, the recapitulates the State. The State makes its prediction. In fact, the financing system is what it does, from all the inputs of the financing model, of the funds that intervene, that in some we have a positive contribution, of others we are going to pay, finally out of a quantity; this quantity, the State calculates, communicates to us in July; it is the one that has incorporated all the autonomous communities, there are general assumptions of the State or not, in its draft budget, and what the State is doing, at the end of two years, to update it. So, we'd have these 35 million in two years, in liquidation. And that limits us, I think it limits us. And in the area of successions, I think we have to... You say: "We have a system of bonuses that benefits the richest. I do not agree; I do not agree, because the taxable base of the inheritance tax corresponding to 150.000 euros, has a bonus, therefore, in the case of children, of 97_per_cent, and in one of 2_million euros, has a bonus of 40. We can look at this bonus pendant if we have to make it more pronounced. Look at him. But let's also take into account that the inheritance tax is one of the effects on the displacement of assets. And that, for example, we find ourselves with the paradox that in Madrid, having an imposition of successions of pairs to children, of groups 1 and 2 much reduced, recapitulates much, because the tea so low, that in many other aspects makes, therefore, attraction of certain assets. And the great assets are the ones that have the most instruments to change their tax domicile. Let's just say, most of the mortals don't have them. So let's work. I know we're willing and willing to work. We believe that the current system of bonuses, therefore, can incorporate better, but the elimination of all the bonus, either changes the entire system of the tax we have at these times, as we have regulated in Catalonia, or is returned. You're asking... we're changing the bonus, aren't we? We eliminate the bonus. So I think we have work to do here and I'm convinced that we can agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.21.0	Thank you, Vice President. It's the return of the congressman's reply. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.22.0	You said, "In fiscal matters, I'm closer to you than I am to the People's Party. Miri, facts and no words. I think they're more at the side of the PDECAT, because, in the end, the IRPF doesn't even touch it. They didn't want to play with the CUP and this year they're telling us they don't even talk. And with successions, now I'm going in, but they're closer to the PDECAT than they were to us, but to you a few years ago, or so, look what I'm saying, or so, how you've changed! I'm starting with what I read. Miri, on the subject of the student, I also want to touch the student. In fact, it forms part of the agreement of assumptions, in this case, that we have closed, in this case, with the government of Pedro Sánchez, and, finally, I say, accompanying it because 50_per_cent, in this case, of the rise of the estalvi, from 23 to 27_per_cent, come to Catalonia, 45_million euros. They're putting us in there? To the general assumptions of the State. Therefore, Miri can get resources. I don't agree with what you're saying. In the end, the estalvi, with yields of more than 150.000_euros only suppose 10_per_cent; therefore, we have recourse, in this case, to do. And, about the liquidations, I don't agree with what you say either. Yes, the liquidation will be 2021, but you are now generating more resources in IRPF that you could write to the assumptions of the year 2019, among other things, because, now, you can't make them serve because you're limited by the expense income and this has already been done on more than one occasion. The liquidation of more of us will come in 2021, but we could use them, at last, this 2019. I recognize it, if we need a new funding system, but we have to give answers to the air and today, the public service can't take it anymore. Certainly, the financing system, which we also worked together. The current funding system in Catalonia approved it as well as the Republican Left, I also remember, because I'm not angry, but that's also it, I mean it's good to be told. You're talking about the presupposition, 1,600_million euros. Listen, you know that the 1,600_million euros already have them spent, they have them spent on consolidation, for example, of the education plants, which already exist, are not us masters, they already exist; they have them spent with the salary increase that we approved a decree, in this case, the result of the general assumptions of the State of revaluation of the salaries of the workers and public workers of the Generality, and they have them spent with some things that you have bought and that, moreover, do not arrive at what you have promised as, for example, with the guaranteed income of citizenship. So, I'm saying this because you can make the sale and you can... Powerpoint was very well modeled, it's very happy, I'm sure the journalists were delighted, but it's that you are the top social assumptions of history and it turns out that this late we've had the biggest social mobilizations of the past few years. Because, in the end, between the sale and the speech, there is a reality, and it is that, although you say that they come with absolute values that we had in 2010, they are not able to fully reverse the detail; for example, in university taxes; for example, in schools in Bressol; for example, in dependence; for example, in housing policy. And I'm already saying if it's that tax policy isn't an obsession for us. Obviously, we want to redistribute the wealth, but what we want is more resources to shield public servants and, in this case, also, to help those people who are going through it worse. And, therefore, we are still very far away – we are very far away – from the proposals we make. And you say, "Look, it's the presuppositional prorogation..., which affects many institutions. Yeah, I'm not saying no, but nine years later, huh? I don't know, a few institutions in Catalonia have to bring in nine years coming into the year following with a presuppositional prosuppositional prosuppositional prosuppositional prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital prosorbital pros. And so, I don't know, I think something's been wrong. I also have the feeling that they don't agree – they don't agree – with the partners and they don't agree with each other. I'm going back to the IRPF theme. Don't flatter yourself. If one week they tell us that, anyway, we can play the IRPF, the next week, that better successions... Listen, with successions, that you say, if what we plant is back to what we agreed a few years ago, if we're not inventing anything. If we go back to what we would never have gone out of, and that generated almost 950_million euros of revenue in Catalonia, and that, therefore, would allow, in this case... If you do not want to compete with low taxation, because, in the end, I also say, if we were independent, we would still have more problems than we have. I already know that Madrid is doing us tax dumping, but well, I don't know if you would agree, for example, that there is a tax land in the area of the state. I would agree, to avoid, for example, what Madrid does, which is absolutely unfair. But we need more resources to protect the people of Catalonia, to guarantee rights, to, in this case, also shield public services. And, look, I'm also telling you, we won't wait for you, because I don't know when we'll have assumptions, I don't know when we'll have the Tax Measures Act or the Accompanying Act. We, the generation, will begin to register, in this case, legal proposals, in this case, with fiscal measures, we will do it with the IRPF, we will do it with estates, we will do it with documented legal acts and we will do it with environmental taxation policy. And if we don't find the assumptions, then we'll find ourselves reading the law and then we'll see if, really, you're closer to us or closer to Mrs. Artadi and the PDECAT. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, it's the vice president's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.24.0	Thank you, Mr. President. President, counselors, counselor, deputies, deputy Cid, I'm not angry, you know. I am very angry at myself – I am very angry at myself – but I do have memory and I don't know where we were a few years ago, but it was years ago, in the midst of an economic crisis, in 2010, the left-wing government approved a reform of the estate tax. That reform of the estate tax had yields equivalent to what we are now having. And the proposal that is being put on the table by part of your group means going to a major recap and affecting small and medium-sized estates that were left out with the Castells reform. Therefore, I believe that we must also keep this in mind. Therefore, years ago, surely, all the folds were younger, but decisions were also taken. He referred to mobilizations in the field of public workers, in the social field of our country. We respect mobilizations and what is most important, value agreements after mobilizations. There have been agreements in the field of public workers, both in the global field and in the field of certain specific collections, and we hope that there will be more. Ugly reference, too, to the presuppositional prorogation. But, you see, let's just say, it's not a presuppositional prorogation for the whole year, or, as a matter of fact, this is not the government's will. We don't want a presuppositional extension of the whole year. There will be a technical prorogation of the first weeks of the year, and therefore, this presuppositional prorogation, the same as the State, the same as the State already had this year 2018, so obviously it is a technical prorogation, and, as it is the will of the Government of the State, the will of our Government is to be able to approve certain presuppositions in the field of the Generality of Catalonia, for which we need more resources, yes, and I believe that, in the coming years, I do not know if we are much at the wish of the PDECAT or of Juntes for Catalonia, of course, because we are part of the same Government, so it is not that we are much at will, that is that we are on the other side of the coast. The question is, between which you defend yourself and which Member Rodriguez defends, this joint where has he moved in the past few years? And judge where you've moved. We've increased the estate tax. Catalonia collects the 40_percent of the State's wealth tax, which pays the 1_percent more rich of the people of Catalonia, the 40_percent is paid by the State; in Madrid, no property tax is paid. And that, obviously, is a cost that we assume because the returns are major. 2014 is to recover the inheritance tax, which had remained at a minimum, and allows us an increase in recaptancy. In these years, it is the years in which the most taxes have been created in the history of Catalan autonomy, it is the years in which the most resources have been created, it is also the years in which we have had the most resources in the Constitutional Court, it has been the years in which the most resources have been created; it is the period in which the green taxation in our country has been most driven, and we can make a list of all the works in the field of, for example, the tax on the media risk of production, manipulation, transport, custody and emission of radioactive elements, the tax on the emission of gases and parts into the atmosphere produced for the industry, the tax produced for the commercial broadcast, the tax on the actual transmission of CO2 emissions, the tax on the emission of gases, and the tax on the environment produced for the industry. We've increased the residue streams, selectively increased the water stream to industrial activities. We have also reformed the tax on large commercial establishments, which is also a tribute to environmental character. Therefore, recourse has not been made, and denying that this recourse has been made is to cover the eyes to reality. Therefore, knowing that there has been this recourse, taking into account the way we have done, can we still go further there? I think so, they can go there. We work out the steps, and I think that with your group, we need to be able to take the steps, and with the other groups, so, that's what they want, to do the steps. And, respect the expense rule, the tickets... – and so, this, the Ministry of Heritage manual, is on the web, because I also had the same doubt–, when you make a normal change, the tickets actually count in the year you have cash entries. Unfortunately, that's the way it is; we've already looked that it wasn't the way it was. Therefore, as far as changes in successions and IRPF are concerned, we must bear in mind these two variables: the amount of tea, that is, the amount of change we are entering and the time it takes, that is, decisions today that have the possible negative effects we can have, the cost of opportunity we pay today, but with tickets that are too much for the future. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.25.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Greetings.]] [[Discussion on the protection of children]] [[255-00005/12]] The next item on the agenda, the eighth, is the debate on child protection. And, in accordance with Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure, this general debate will be governed by the provisions of Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokespersons. As this debate is taking place at the initiative of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we will begin with the intervention of a representative of this parliamentary group, so as to set out the reasons for the request, for a maximum of thirty minutes. In the first place, has the word, therefore, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the lady Inés Arrimadas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.26.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra. MPs, MPs. This plenary session was essential because of the situation we have in Catalonia with the policies of children, with the situation of minors, children and adolescents in Catalonia. Unfortunately, this plenary is probably not news; probably, the news of the week goes in other directions, we already know what we are talking about, we already know what the Government's priorities are, we already know what the CoR has called for this Friday. But, really, this issue should be on the political agenda, it should be among the priorities of the Government of the Generalitat. This plenary session must serve for the gentlemen of the Government to take a bath of reality, a bath of reality of the situation in Catalonia. We are very used to hearing you say that Catalonia's priority is the referendum, that Catalonia's priority is self-determination, that what matters most to Mr Torra is independence, we already listened the other day to the spokesman of the Junts per Catalunya Group "we do not deviate with things that are not important and that are not essential, such as waiting lists, because this is going to serve, perhaps, even for a brief moment, for the gentlemen and ladies of the Government to take a real bath in what is happening in Catalonia." And it is true that we are going to talk about many things, because this problem affects many sectors, many areas and must be addressed in an integral way and must be solved in a cross-cutting way. But if there is one thing that is going to be throughout today's debate is equal opportunities, because every time we have a child who suffers some kind of problem, we are talking about their equal opportunities being violated. And you talk very little about inequality, in Catalonia, about inequality among the citizens of Catalonia. He likes to talk about Catalonia as if it were a very homogeneous thing and facing the rest of Spain normally, but the inequality in Catalonia is unbearable. There is a fact that, to me, personally, puts my hair at the top and is that life expectancy varies in ten years depending on the neighborhood of Barcelona in which you live. We are talking about social inequality, I insist, unbearable. And the socio-economic level of parents affects the education of children, the health – now we will see a really hard report on this aspect – in the occupation, in the future, etc.. And besides, we're losing a lot of talent. Talent doesn't understand social classes. Talent is born anywhere and in any family, and we are losing a lot of talent as a society of those boys and girls who are not having the same equal opportunities as other peers and other boys and girls who are lucky enough to be born in other families or even in other territories, because we will also talk about territorial inequality. We can talk starting with, perhaps, the bloodiest thing, which is poverty. In this Catalonia of the process, in this Catalonia of which independence is the most important, there is a great « stellate covering the social reality of the boys and girls in Catalonia. According to its own data, Idescat says that almost 30_percent of boys and girls in Catalonia are in poverty or social exclusion; more than one_of_each_four boys in Catalonia has this situation. And poverty, far from being solved, turns out to be increasing: the latest data given to us by the Idescat say that child poverty has increased by 10,6_per_cent. Of course, who is most affected by this situation? Single mothers with children and families with children with disabilities or dependent children are, say, those who suffer most from poverty in Catalonia and social exclusion. But we are going to see, for example, how it affects the socio-economic situation of families in something that a priori would seem to have little to do with it, such as health, the health of minors. Well, there is a study, a report by the Quality Agency of Health Assessment of Catalonia that shows that, in Catalonia, today, being born into a family with more resources means having more health. In fact, there is a small summary that says: "The health of girls and boys depends on the socio-economic level of their parents. Morbidity, the use of mental health centres, the rate of hospitalization and the likelihood of drug use among girls and boys with lower socio-economic levels are three to five times those among girls and boys with higher socio-economic levels, and up to seven times in the case of the rate of psychiatric hospitalization. This is the reality of Catalonia. I know that you do not like to talk about this, you will be saying: "Uf! When do we talk about independence and the referendum? You're right, aren't you? That's the most important thing. Well, this is the situation of thousands and thousands of families. Today in Catalonia, equal health care is not guaranteed, depending on whether children are lucky enough to be in a family with more resources or less lucky enough to be in a family with a situation of vulnerability. Early detection of diseases. The gap between early disease detection among children from resource families and children from less resource families is abject. Disease prevention; oral health; healthy lifestyles; malnutrition; obesity. It is true that we are talking about problems that affect society as a whole in general; we have a growing pandemic of childhood obesity, poor nutrition... But this particularly affects children with lower incomes, children in families with lower incomes and in vulnerable situations. This goes unnoticed, this is not on the government's political agenda. But we have presented and will continue to present in this plenary initiatives to address all these kinds of situations. And we would like you in this plenary to be able not only to support some of our measures, but to implement them. Because of all these issues we have already put forward initiatives, some have even been adopted; not only in this legislature, but in the previous one. But what has the government done? Nothing. Why? Because this is not important for the gentlemen of the government. What about early detection and disease prevention, the differences between families, what about? We're talking about independence here. Well, this is still a reality that bursts into the face of the government. Another issue that I do not know if you are aware of, but it has been one of the demands we have heard during these weeks: the professionals of the specialty of pediatrics. We have a problem in Catalonia with poor resource planning by the Generalitat of Catalonia. Do you know that there are many territories in Catalonia that have not properly covered this service, this specialty? Do you know that there are many professionals who are not of this specialty who have to meet these needs? Do you know that while the government opens embassies we lack pediatricians in Catalonia? Are you conscious, Mr. Torra? Because this affects children. Especially who? Children from the most vulnerable families. Another thing you don't want to talk about: waiting lists. Children are also being affected by these waiting lists that you are unable to manage. We present a law to improve the management of waiting lists, because it is not always all about resources, which also – that we can also talk about how you prioritize and how you spend a lot of money on other things and then you have little –: no, it is that we are also talking about improving management. We, with our health spokesperson, put forward a bill to improve waiting lists, and what did you do? To block the; let us not talk, let the professionals not come here to talk about how to improve the management system, to patent the territorial differences that we have. I have already put you, if you remember, bloody examples of territorial differences, sometimes with cities that separate twenty kilometers. What did the government do? "No, man, please don't talk about that in Parliament." Let's do a 155 commission. But a law of improved waiting list management, no, man, that, for what? You've blocked it. But the reality, as many as you put it, remains below, and we have a very serious problem of managing waiting lists. Let's move on to the field of education, to this model of success, eh? You will have heard many times to the government that it is a model of success. And anyone who criticizes, well, it's already... it's already the worst in Catalan society, isn't it? , if we criticize the model of education, because, of course, it is a model of success... Well, a model of success is that Catalonia is one of the autonomous communities where the socio-economic level of parents most influences the academic outcome of children? Is that a model of success? Can we be proud of that system of education that condemns inequality to children from families with fewer resources? Can you come out here and say that it is a model of success, when we are one of the autonomous communities where parents' money is most affected by their children's academic results? Can you do this? I would be unable; I would be unable to say that this is a model of success. Not to mention the zero-to-three-year education. Because do you know how much the Generalitat of Catalonia allocates to daycare centres, to children's schools from zero to three years? Zero, zero! Think of everything that the Generalitat subsidizes; think of all the chiringuitos that have been riding in recent years; think of us as the autonomous community with the highest positions in all of Spain; think of us as the autonomous community where the highest positions charge most in all of Spain; think of us as the autonomous community with the most political chiringuitos in all of Spain, ahead of Andalusia, that there is also cloth to cut there, huh? But in front of Andalusia, they have eight provinces. But how much money is there for day care in Catalonia? Zero. In the Generalitat de Catalunya, zero. You say this is a model of success? It is a model of shame – a model of shame. And this has to be reversed quickly – quickly. And of course, while you say that you are going to open the third batch of embassies, I would like the holder to « open the third batch of networks of a network of nurseries and children's schools throughout the territory of the Generalitat. That's the headline I'd like. But you guys... we already know what yours is, huh? Somewhere else, isn't it? The subject of English. You're wrong that you're wrong – you're wrong that you're wrong – monolithic, huh? : "Only Catalan in schools as a vehicle language. The other day I read a very interesting article about English and equal opportunities. Do you know that if you can take, let's say, the situation of a child, knowing nothing more about his/her socio - economic environment, knowing absolutely nothing more about him/her, only with the level of English that that child has you can already estimate the socio - economic level of the parents? That's unfortunate, that's tremendous. Children from more resourced families know more about English. Why? Because they can sometimes be paid for very expensive schools, of which they do have a trilingual system; because you can give them private lessons; because if they are even very lucky you can send them a year abroad... What does the Generalitat of Catalonia do? Nothing. Question after question, proposed after proposal of our parliamentary group, "the model of education is a model of success. Catalonia's unique vehicle language must be the català. That children from families with fewer resources know less English, what else does it give the government? What's important, huh? : unique vehicle language in Catalan. And it is true that we are not only talking about vehicular languages: you can talk about reinforcements, you can talk about content in children's hours of English media..., you can talk about many things. But, of course, you can't go out here and say that this is a model of success, because you really should be ashamed of yourself, because it's not a model of success, Mr. Torra, Mr. Counsellor. It's not a success model. Not to mention the neglect we have in the education of children with special needs. We have already brought here, my fellow education spokesman has also brought here the case, for example, of deaf children. The law is not being enforced, Mr. Torra. I know you like it, don't you? , because, total, you the law... is not complying with the law, is not providing sign language for families of deaf children who so require and so request. In fact, I believe that an entity has filed a complaint against the Generalitat de Catalunya itself because you violate the law and violate your rights. Also with children with autism, we have also put forward some proposal so that they can stay in the dining room. Please note what we ask: that you can stay in the dining room for those families who so require. What have you done? Nothing. Will we continue to insist? Yeah. But I sincerely have little hope that as long as this pro-independence government, a fan of the Balkan War, will remain in the government... because little can be done. But we're still talking about another topic. We talked about poverty, we talked about education, we talked about health..., let's talk about child protection. Do you know that there is an alarming increase in cases of abuse, in cases of addictions to new technologies, in the case of school harassment? We have a problem – a problem – because child abuse exists, and it is a very serious problem. School harassment exists, and it is a problem that affects and concerns many families. Sexual abuse. There's a fact from a report that Save the Children has made that the truth is that she puts her hair at the top of her head, right? : one of the victims of sexual abuse is a child. We're talking about Catalonia, huh? , child abuse in Catalonia ; not in the world, not: in Catalonia. 17_percent of the Catalan population has suffered sexual violence during their childhood. During the last school year, 2016-2017, 30_per_cent of adolescents have suffered some sexual assault and 19_per_cent has suffered some of the facts digitally, by the new technologies. What did Citizens do in the previous legislature? He introduced a law. Because this is a problem and because here many times what fails, you know what they are? Protocols and interdepartmental coordination. I do not say this, says Save the Children, says: "The biggest problem facing child victims of sexual abuse in Catalonia – attention, is not Madrid, 155..., no, no, I will tell you what Save the Children says – « is the lack of coordination between the various departments and services of the Generalitat of Catalonia : Justice, Health, Education, Social Affairs, Interior... Whether the Government has in its hands work more for this solution. It affects and worries many families. But the Government's actions are null and void, and the Government's inaction in the face of this situation is alarming. And not just from the government: from the parliamentary groups, because do you know what you voted for when we introduced our law? In the amendment to the whole, eh? When the debate begins, simply so that experts, professionals, educators, families, entities... know what you voted for? Against the fact that the debate can be opened! , that this debate can be brought to Parliament, in order to have a calm and calm debate. Because I recognize one thing, Mr.Torra: it's not an easy topic – it's not an easy topic – it's not a simple topic. We believe that we are quite sensible; it is not a simple subject. But when the main problem is the lack of coordination, can you tell me why you cannot put more work and more effort into this? I'm just going to give you an example. We in our law, too, and in other proposals have asked for a single record of child abuse, the famous RUMI – I don't know if you remember. Do you know what year the Government of the Generalitat undertook to make this unique record? In 2007 – 2007 – it has rained. I've given you time... I don't know how many independences. You said 18 months of independence; a unique record of child abuse since 2007... Our group insists; it insists, persists and resists. Last year we put a question to the department, to see, listen, from 2007 to 2017, what you have done with this, which is a precisely coordination tool, which is what Save the Children says is missing. Do you know what the department told us? –In 2017! He says: "It will soon be launched. When Mr. Torra finds a moment between Waterloo, Otegi, Montserrat..., he may give Mr. Torra for launching a government obligation since 2007. Well, this is a subject, I insist, very important – very important. And it's also a sample... Because you'll get out here, sure – already, the intervention I can get ahead of you almost, I think, eh? ; I hope to be wrong, but... –: « It is Madrid's fault and the money that the Spaniards steal from us. Well, well, this is neither money nor Madrid. This is a simple single record of child abuse. This is coordination problems that you have between yourselves to solve problems of this kind. But what has the Generalitat done? Nothing. What will he do? It's Madrid's fault. And in the meantime, what? The boys and girls in Catalonia suffer from their bad policies, which will suffer all their lives, because what you don't do when a child is a child, this person will pay for all their lives. But we go on – we go on. There is an alarming increase in forms of violence on social networks. I insist, this whole subject would be addressed..., this law, we will re-submit it. Let's see what you vote for. Because we are also talking about addiction to new technologies, to gambling through new technologies. And to give you an example of your lack of action, look, we, in 2016..., my parliamentary group approved here a proposal to create a study table on this type of concern, on this type of use, misuse and abuse of new technologies by children and adolescents, so that professionals, experts, families, entities, heads of administration would come. You made it up... - I know, huh? , Mr Torra – they constituted it in July 2017. Do you know how many meetings have been held at this study table? Zero. I repeat how many meetings have you made of the Council of the Republic of I do not know what, the Assembly of I do not know how many, of the chiringuites? A study table on the alarming increase in addictions, abuse, harassment, abuse through social networks in children and adolescents. But that – that – gives the government what else, doesn't it? And I'm also going to focus on a thing that's bleeding, which is the protection of children and adolescents protected by the Generalitat of Catalonia. The system of protection for foster children is bankrupt in Catalonia – bankrupt. And I'm not saying it, the entities say it, the professionals say it, and even now we'll remind you of a complaint that you've had from the agents of Squad Mossos. Listen a little more to the professionals. Visit a little more what is happening in many of those centers. The situation is unsustainable. You have unaccompanied minors sleeping on the floor of police stations: in police stations, in mattresses on the floors of police stations. Then, yes, a lot of banner and a lot of announcement« We want to gather, huh? and then the unaccompanied children on the floors of the police stations. What did you do? Like he does in everything, huh? They covered it up and denied it. They have had to be the collectives themselves, the trade unions of Mossos d'Esquadra themselves who have had to denounce them – which to denounce, Mr. There is nothing here about self-determination or referendum or anything, but we are talking about something else: denounce. Because you have the minors sleeping on the floors of the police stations, doing, in addition, that police officers, of Mossos d'Esquadra..., are doing a job that obviously does not belong to them, that should correspond to another area of the administration. What else is happening? Workers report that minors are not being protected. Aggressions are taking place. Attacks on children's educators are increasing. What is the Generalitat doing? Nothing. Patches: An announcement, right? I don't know, I'm going to Montserrat, we're going to see Puigdemont. Cover up the reality. But the situation is unsustainable. And their lewdness is not only affecting minors, it's affecting professionals. Listen to the professionals, too. Unpaid. The same week the new councillor announced a third batch of embassies – the same week – the workers were reporting defaults in juvenile centres – the same week. You have..., it's..., I, really, in life I'd like to have a little bit, sometimes, more face, wouldn't I? , because that thing... The same week of the health professionals strike and... – for example, in this case we are talking about childhood, I could give you many examples –, of defaults, you announce the third wave of embassies all over the world. The situation is unsustainable, under very precarious working conditions. The centers, I don't know if you know, but they're not in the right condition, they're overworked, they're not doing what the law says that these centers have to be as close to a family as possible. It is repeatedly unfulfilled. And you, I insist, a lot of banner and a lot of announcement and a lot of headline, and then reality pops into your face. And we have a problem. I know that to you surely this, Mr. Torra..., I have heard you say many times that the important thing is independence. You have left it in writing that all you care about is the independence of your country. But he's forgetting the reality of Catalonia. And you are the president of the Generalitat! It doesn't make me particularly grateful that you're president of the Generalitat, but it is. It's just that you have a lot of responsibility in your hands. And we have an irresponsible one at the head of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Because looking the other way with these problems is absolutely irresponsible. We also need to enhance family care, Mr. Torra. We need to enhance the family care of these minors. And I insist, our parliamentary group is the one that more social and economic proposals are presenting, not only in this legislature, but in the previous ones, in this sense. And I'm going to give you a recognition from the opposition, and I think you don't normally do this kind of recognition. These problems are not easy to solve. I'm not telling you this whole situation is solved with a magic wand. Those of the magic wand and those of the magic and populist solution are you, that with independence here we are going to eat dessert ice cream every day – which, by the way, is bad, from the nutritional point of view, too, as we have spoken before childhood obesity. But... [[Funnel veils]] , yes, yes..., you are those of magic solutions, those of 'independence solves everything. Do I make an estimate of what you are going to say, Mr. Torra, when you come out here? « Spain steals from us. If we want independence, it's to solve this kind of thing. As if coordination between the Departments of Interior, Education, Health, depends on whether we are an independent country or not. You have many resources, many skills, and you are not using them for what you should, you are using them only for your obsession. And besides, it's that you say it. If you publicly acknowledged that when you went to talk to Mr. Sánchez, the 90_per_cent of the meeting was self-determination and referendum. You say: "Let us not deviate from things that are not essential. As Vic's call – I don't know if you remember –: « We don't deviate from our objective: the independence of Catalonia. That's you, yeah. But that's not thanks – it's not thanks – because, unfortunately, you think about it. And, unfortunately, the responsibility is yours. Because his inaction is affecting thousands and thousands of children who suffer all their lives from lack of opportunity, lack of solutions, lack of policies, lack of coordination, sometimes. If the problem, sometimes, of families is that they end up in trouble going to one band and to another, because you yourself are not coordinating correctly. And they're not all money. Yes, we can talk about prioritizing resources. I recognize that, but it's not all money. I've given you examples of a lack of coordination, that you don't put in the study table. I will give you another example: the Children's Law is from the year 2010 – 2010. He's got it, huh? , 2010. You say independence in _months. Well, since 2010, the Children's Law has not been able to explain it. You have not done the regulatory development work of this law, of the deployment in its totality. Another example: the 2013 Children's Pact, which we held and discussed here in the Parliament of Catalonia, if I don't recall it badly, with unanimity, huh? – if I don't remember badly. What have you done? Res– res. The situation is exactly the same. And not the same, but worse..., worse in many of the areas that have already been dealt with at the time of the pact debate. You, Mr. Torra, the other day, I don't know if you remember, made me a recommendation. Em said: "I recommend the counselor's book to you respect 1714, don't I? Your fetish monotheme. I will give you another recommendation, if you allow me: to see if you find time – some saneness that you have when I stop thinking about independence– [[the speaker shows a document to the chamber]] to read this report of Catalonia, of the situation of children of Catalonia. See if, after reading all this, there's time... [[the speaker shows another document to the chamber]] see if you have time to read this Caritas report. This is my recommendation. You, 1714; jo, 2018. Okay? Catalunya. And, if you have time, after seeing these two documents... [[the speaker shows a report to the chamber]] This report. Because when you stopped thinking about 1714 and started reading more things of 2018, perhaps – perhaps – a little bit of the situation that we are seeing in Catalonia, and of the loss of opportunity that it is to have this government at the forefront of the lives of 7 million people. You won't, but when you do, when there is a government of the Generality that thinks more about this, in 2018 and in 2028, than in 1714, at this time we will start to make politics useful for all the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We are now continuing with the intervention of the President of the Generality. When you're ready, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.28.0	Very good morning to everyone. President, advisors, advisors, deputies, people who accompany us today..., the truth is that, whether I believe it or not, Mrs. Arrimadas, it has made me wonder what you propose in this House. He thought: "Look, we will have an opportunity to address the issue of childhood with a constructive debate, will be, purpose. And, well, I have to tell you that you spoke more of independence than childhood, and that... [[applause]] And that, look, it might surprise you, but I won't mention the word "independence not once during this whole debate," not once, huh? Because I think this is a very serious issue, it's a hugely serious issue, which needs to be addressed with constructive approaches. I expected a constructive debate and not a debate that, in a few points, I think, has had a point of frivolity; frivolity in very important aspects: we are talking about the best we have, which are our infants. Because, effectively, the repte, the focus, the approach of policies affecting children and adolescents is one of the most important reptes that all Western societies have, and Catalonia by no means count. I would like to recall a few words from Paulo Freire: "Infanthood is the stage where everything is built. But today, in addition, global phenomena such as economic crises, the universalization of the new technologies, their impact on personal relationships, work or education, globalisation, migratory phenomena or new forms of family have an impact on the children who place us and ask us to review and deepen in some of the sites that we have always given for good. Today I hope that with the rest of the groups we will have the opportunity to contrast, to validate, to improve the policies directed at our children and adolescents, to make this dialog that society asks us to build. I trust that because of the issues we are addressing, the interventions that follow and the debate that we have a purpose, positive and constructive, with realistic proposals. Our infants deserve this to happen. Our present and our future deserve it. Before anything else, I want to say that we cannot talk about child protection without taking into account preventive policies and all the rest of the cross-cutting policies that guarantee a comprehensive treatment of infants; this is their first line of defence. And that's why I want to focus my intervention on this wide range of sights. I am aware, as is the full government, that there is room for improvement. The problems of childhood and adolescence, in their global and broad sense, are on the agenda of all the world's governments – and therefore also of all the government's advisors and advisors, as I will detail them more – as they were on the agendas of President Puigdemont and of the councillors and advisors, or in exile. From here, remember the compromise work that they were able to do and that was interrupted by a vengeful state that decided to put an end to the application of public policies that were developing with all normality. So much so, that one of the last decrees approved by the government of President Puigdemont was October 24, three days before the Spanish State decided to cease the government. And it was meant to be, you know what? To increase the representativeness of the Observers of the Rights of the Child – commitments of President Puigdemont and Constellera Bassa, which we are now gathering. Before, however, we come to some of the policies that we are developing, I would like to explain what is the meaning of childhood policies for this government; that is, as we understand them, and, if I may say it in two words, it is prevention and focus; all policies focused on preventing situations of vulnerability and focus in risk segments. Of course they have felt, on various occasions, talking about this philosophy of childhood policies to the Councillor El Homrani. We come from a period of deep crisis, which has increased the job insecurity of workers and, in some cases, has put them in a situation of vulnerability and risk to the poor, to their families and yes, to their children. And before this fact the government must act in a cross-cutting and preventive manner. Therefore, in the first place, childhood policies are the ones that must guarantee the well-being of all children and adolescents in Catalonia promoting their quality of life; a good thing that can be heard in the broadest and most transversal sense possible: the well-being of children and adolescents in Catalonia goes to the well-being of their family, their friendships, quality in education and health, to live and live in a more just, more cohesive and balanced society, respectful of the environment, ahead and free. That's why we can't hear the children's welfare as something else, but we do it from a collective and transversal look. Second, childhood policies are those that seek equal opportunities in cases where discrimination, disadvantage or vulnerability situations exist. Of course, we do care about equal opportunities policies in this country – of course we do. That's precisely why this government has put people in the center of its political activity, and infants, in the center of the center. In this sense, in a fully republican sense, we must seek the equality of people's opportunities, with the aim of preventing the social point of origin from being the one that marks the social point of arrival. Our birthplace cannot predestinate our role to life, no matter how. A cohesive society with social justice must avoid that the fate of the family where we were born is the main determining factor in the opportunities with which we will build our future. This is why childhood policies must also inspire the principle of equity; they must also address in what way public resources are responsive to the needs and rights of the most vulnerable children and adolescents. It is from this preventive perspective that the need for joint vision of all childhood and adolescence is explained, and allows for a focused approach of those infants and adolescents who are at risk or unemployed. Therefore, to make an integral approach to childhood, indefugeably, a broad vision and a focused effort. Child protection goes through a set of policies in the broadest sense; it's said. Family policies are childhood policies, educational policies are childhood policies, anti-poor policies are childhood policies, work policies are also there, social preventive policies, it is clear that much of the policies of salvation are childhood policies and even all the policies of infrastructure and mobility are childhood policies. That is why I will not only refer to policies specifically designed for children and adolescents, such as education, but also to those who indirectly have a direct impact on children's lives. Hence the necessary introduction of the cross-cutting and integral perspective of all public policies. And under this perspective, then, what is the essential pillar of childhood policies? Above all, and above all, consider infants and adolescents as citizens, as subjects of right with the ability to exercise these rights. And what do you mean, that? First, it means putting infants and adolescents in the center of public policies. Consteller Bassa said at the meeting of the Children's Table: "It is necessary to put the children's rights at the centre of the political debate. The childhood, adolescence and youth of our country must be the protagonist of public policies, and these must be based on the priority of the welfare of this collection. This social point of view requires that children, adolescents and young people be placed at the centre of public policies. They must be protagonists of the set of actions that affect them, all directly or collaterally. And that is why it is also necessary, logically, to establish mechanisms for assessing the impact of public policies on this collection. Only assessing this impact are ways to improve. Secondly, it means taking over our children and adolescents, recognizing them the ability to participate, influence, decide in their daily lives, in their own environment and, of course, also in the public policies that affect them and, therefore, in society in general. All this implies a social recognition of childhood as citizens and citizens of the right, regardless of their age, because the most important thing is not only that they are protagonists of these policies, they must also not be participants. The active and determined participation of children, adolescents and young people is a pending assignment from this country and from the government we want to push and pose at European levels. Infants need to move from protection objects to right-wing subjects; but effectively, it is not only appropriate that this is reflected in our laws. Therefore, we do not just demand and defend that we have the rights that surround them, but that we have the obligation to set up the real bases so that they can exercise them. In the third place, let the adultcentric gaze, paternalism, build a future for them without them, project expectations about childhood without taking into account their needs, interests and intentions. It means, in short, considering them present, today, and not just future; not seeing 'they from an adult perspective, for which they can become, but for which they are today. They're now and here, think, feel, laugh and cry, now and here. This way of hearing childhood and adolescence means that, as the government, we can never conceive of childhood policies as a expense, but we understand them as the best investment in citizenship for any society and, obviously, for our country. And the quantification in childhood policies is something that most likely wandered out at the length of the debate we'll have during today's day. There are various reports, yes, like that of the syndic of Greuges or Save the Children, among many others, that there are references. What is relevant is that, in order to know the assumption invested in childhood, we have to take into account the cross-sectionality that was mentioned before. We cannot only count the assumption of the Secretary of Children or the Directorate-General for Child and Adolescent Care, but we can only count the assumption of all public policies directed directly at children and adolescents – in education, health, sport, etc. – and the proportion of the reversal of those policies that we have previously called indirect – for example, infrastructure and mobility or the environment – and which have a direct impact also on the well-being of children. Yes, I would like us to present the working paper that UNICEF has prepared and published this year in 2018 on measuring the presuppositional investment in childhood and that gives a methodological proposal and some first results for Spain. Well, in the case of Catalonia, UNICEF estimates that the generality's infancy investment represents 23.5_percent of the generality's total expenditure and 4.63_percent of GDP. The numbers, the methodology may be discussed, but we may agree that the Generality's expenditure has a high profanity component. These are elements that need to be taken into account and that must enable us to put into context what is the Government's orientation towards childhood policies. This is why we have the will to deepen in this highly complex value, and that we need to know in what context we find ourselves. As I used to say to the heart of my intervention, an example of childhood policies, but also of all social, labor, government health policies, is to put a greater emphasis on preventive policies. Social or socio-educational interventions or the intervention of the child protection system should be the last line of defence of children's rights, not the first. Because when I talk about childhood policies, when we talk about childhood policies, they're transversal, we talk about it in all its meaning. One of the elements that has guided us, the Pact for the Childhood of Catalonia, reverses this sense of prevention and transversality. In the words of the same pact, "childhood is part of the work of a country that is present and that will also be the future. This feeling of the pact is what we need to move forward and we need to allow ourselves to work in the full deployment of the law of rights and opportunities of childhood and adolescence, an element that we are already gathering in the governance platform of the legislature and which focuses on the revision of the protection and strengthening system of the right of participation; or the comprehensive childcare and adolescence platform 2015-2018, which is already coming to an end and which, therefore, we will have to evaluate and promote a new one. In this direction, since the family is the first institution of socialization, foster care and care for children and adolescents, support policies for families, in all their diversity, are also policies of childhood and adolescence, both preventive, in some cases, as well as intervention. This is why the Comprehensive Family Support Plan is the tool that plans and develops a comprehensive and cross-cutting governance action, in the general order of family policies in Catalonia; a plan that has gone from allocating 224_millions in 2012 to around 600_millions in 2017 and that we plan to close 2018 with more than 700_millions, is to say, more than three times, motivated especially by the policies we have dedicated in terms of housing and guaranteed income. I can tell you, in addition, that we will put in place new measures to promote mediation and other alternative methods of managing family conflicts that can be beneficial to children. And it is that the Government is making a huge effort to provide resources for basic social services through the additions 2017, 2018 and 2019 to the contract program 2016-2019, of social services with the local ones. And I'm taking advantage of it from here to thank the local world for the ingenious and difficult task that they are developing in the attention of the citizenry from the vicinity. Another focus with the objective of avoiding that the social point of origin is necessarily the point of social arrival at the length of the life cycle is the approach from education. In this area, education, we face this legislature two great challenges: the fight against school segregation of any kind and the deployment of inclusive school. At this point, they have also heard Councillor Bargalló speak on more than one occasion: we have started the procedures to amend the decree of admission of students, which includes the elimination of the complementary score for coeliacs, and also for infants with parents, guardians and Germans who are students from the center. On the other hand, the signature of the Covenant against Segregation, promoted by the Syndic of Greuges, is scheduled for the next week. This agreement is based on the principles of co-responsibility of all centres, regardless of their ownership, and that of the right to equal opportunities education. For the society as a whole, school segregation has costs; in addition to the negative effects on the school performance of the education system, it also has effects on coexistence and social cohesion present and future. The inclusive school is another of our reptes, one of the most important and in which we are fully compromised. That's why one of the goals we've set ourselves is to promote a truly inclusive education system and be able to accommodate the diversity of the educational needs of the entire student. We have to work for an inclusive school that can give response to students with specific educational needs, a collection of approximately 9,500 students, because individual difficulties are part of society and therefore part of the reality of the same classroom. Now a year ago – a year ago – two days before the application of 155 by the Spanish State, the Government was endowed with Decree 150/2017, of 17 October, of educational assistance to students in the framework of an inclusive education system, known as the inclusive school decree, an excellent tool to truly build a system where all schools can adequately cater for the diversity of the needs of their students. But, as we have demonstrated on more than one occasion this 2018, executing an extended assumption approved in an economic context that is different from the current one, we have not been able to advance as we would like in the application of this decree. But in this sense, as Vice-President Aragones and Councillor Bargalló have already advanced, the 2019_subject has to include a major social expense, which in education would allow us to start applying the inclusive school decree with contract, for example, of more professional educational assistance, as well as a recovery of the funding of the stage from zero to three years. Of course, children from zero to three years have the right to education and, like social rights, the Government of Catalonia must guarantee it in accordance with the principles established for the Convention on the Rights of Children and other national and international legislation. Everyone has to have the opportunity to effectively exercise this universal right and, therefore, that the public network puts at the top of the population a sufficient supply in the zero-three years stage, in quality conditions. In this sense, our priority is the most vulnerable families, because it is shown that zero-to-three-year schooling is a guarantee of equal opportunities for children, and these are precisely the most vulnerable families, which cannot cope with the costs of educating children and, consequently, those who are excluded. Surely that's why the under-three-year-old schoolwork is only 38,1_per_cent, in past course data. We have increased more than a point and a half compared to the 2015-2016 course, but it is an insufficient growth. For this reason, the departure for the financing of this educational stage has an important role to play in the proposal of the new government assumptions, because the government maintained its commitment to regain participation in a direct and progressive way, in co-responsibility with the municipalities and families, in the financing of public places from zero to three years. In the same way, it has to be a priority to re-engineer the food sheds. This course has been set at around €78_million in the concept of mentor scholarships, which is a 6_million prop-in increment in relation to the past course. For the time being, it has already secured more than 120,000 food aid, which is more than twelve thousand scholarships than the past course for the same dates. We need to build a clear, transparent and, above all, just system. And here it's basic to match the criteria for access to food-related scholarships with the criteria for poor risk, with a presuppositional endowment sufficient to cover all the demand. In certain disadvantaged barrels, with difficult problems of social inclusion, which do not have the social capital necessary to reverse the situation, the school has to be set up as the main agent of dynamism and social cohesion. For what he does to salvation, Councillor Comín was a banner of measuring the impact of socioeconomic environments on the development of the salvation of people in the long run of their lives, which we call social determinants of salvation, and he wanted to strengthen the spheres of mental salvation, and in all cases, paying special attention to childhood. So much so that they have been allocated about 70_million for attention to mental health to the child and youth population, an increase of 78_per_cent since 2011, which is part of the Pla director of mental health and additions of 2017-2019. The first educational and residential therapeutic unit for children and young people with mental health disorders has also been set aside; public pioneer facility throughout the State. We are also pioneers to ensure access to the continuous glucose monitoring device for all younger people with type 1 diabetes. Since July, access to continuous glucose monitoring has been deployed to all children under seven years of age, pregnant women and insulin pump carriers with repeat and/ or inadvertent hypoglycaemiaes. Prevention and treatment of infants and young people affected by foetal alcohol spectrum disorders has also been strengthened. They are, all of them, examples of concrete measures implemented in the last months in the field of salvation of the Vergés Counsellor's hand. I don't want to wrap them up with a list of infinite measures, but to tell you some with an obvious transversal vocation, which surpasses the narrow realm of childhood care, but which allows us to improve the opportunities of infants in the sense that we once thought about, the steps to relate some of them. Strengthening social housing policies. Around 60_percent of families receiving payment support at the loguer have children under seventeen years of age at their family unit. Promotion of cultural, cultural and sports associationism, in collaboration with multiple entities dedicated to this sector. All just a few weeks ago, we celebrated 125 years of vacation colonies in Catalonia. Cultural programs, one highlights the campaign« Fas six years, sort a book, thanks to which close to eighty_ thousand infants who have spent six years in 2018 have rejected at home a valley for a book of children's themes, with the aim of helping them to create their own library. Thirty-three_thousand_five hundred infants participated, almost 6_per_cent more than in the previous edition. Digital policies aimed at ensuring security and self-protection in the use of the Internet, and preventing cyber-assembly, of a band, and promoting scientific and technological vocations between young people with the Stemcat platform and the Stemcat educational innovation program, which we created at the start of the legislature. The Youth Guarantee Programme, the application of which in Catalonia has rejected a special prize from the Assembly of the Regions of Europe, with almost one hundred and twenty thousand young people registered, from..., of which, I'm sorry, the half has found a place of work thanks to this programme precisely. It is estimated that the participation of young people in the set of programs will amount, only in 2018, to a presumption of more than 100_million euros. Promotion of public transport through the T-young or the T-16, which 2017 was extended until the age of sixteen to give coverage to the compulsory schooling stage. These are just brushes of programs of different scopes that aim to exercise prevention and promotion of equity in childhood and adolescence and that add to the government's great policies. Finally, and always as a last option, childhood policies must contemplate the protection, the acquisition and even the protection of children and adolescents who may be unprotected for their families. Our welfare system must guarantee the protection of all children and adolescents, whatever their origin and situation. In this sense, the Catalan protection system does not discriminate between children or adolescents, it continues to accompany the adolescent when up to the age of 18 and has the principle of irrefutable, a principle that complements, not to leave a child or adolescent unlearned. In fact, the catal protection system is almost unique, because it increases the care of adolescents when they sunbathe most of their age. We need to highlight in the field of protection the measures developed to promote family reunification, which were put into effect in the last parliamentary term and which we have continued to promote, and which have allowed us to overcome the seven hundred foster families. As childhood is one of the most vulnerable vital moments, family reunification must take precedence over other institutionalized care measures that can be developed, in line with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. In this sense, we promote that the municipalities of Catalonia can declare themselves friends of family marriage, and create stable circuits of marriage promotion. It is undeniable, however, that our protection system has become increasingly tense with the massive arrival of young and young migrants alone, to whom we are attentive and drawing special attention, but within the protection system. We expect them to reach around 3,800 minors, in 2015 it was 377 – 3,800 this year, in 2015, 377 throughout the year – that is to say, it has multiplied by deut– it has multiplied by deut – the number of arrivals, a fact that, effectively, is testing us all as the country. And the state didn't make it easy for us either. It has no sense that the European Union's immigration fund state and has left it. Who's holding it together and including it? It doesn't make them the State, it makes them the Government of the Generality. Moreover, when they carry out an exceptional measure of character, such as the decree which provides for the distribution of 38_million euros for the gathering of smaller without family references, they make a distribution of resources taking as a basis the place of entry of these young people and in the first attention, and not, in change, in the continuing attention that they end up finally residing. Therefore, of these 38_million euros in Catalonia correspond to 2_million euros. I don't know if you, to the groups that are now intervening, seem that this is a fair division. Although Catalonia is the second-youngest community with no family referents it is tutoring, of 38_million that are distributed, 2 to Catalonia. And yet, despite the situation of extreme emergence; and yet, despite this absolutely unpredictable number of multiplying by two the smallest we have to gather, we have not left anything less unattended. And I want to thank the work that has been done since the Councillor of Social Affairs and Councillor El Homrani. And in his words: "We are opening a center of minors every week, when before it is ugly in months. And I think that this is a merit of all, of all the country, that can prioritize and put value where the situation is more critical and more vulnerable. And this government made this social emergence one of its priorities. But we must bear in mind that migrations do not last and that the tightening of policies from other countries have diverted flows to our home. Therefore, yes, it is a huge challenge and I hope from all of you, at the length of this debate, your proposals and your constructive measures. Because before the predictions we have to be foresights, not just as the gathering is done, but as soon as we can give all these young people, what work to include fem and how we avoid their stigmatization. Therefore, we are not concerned only with the gathering of emergence, but with the work of inclusiveness and the work of taking over all these boys and girls. Because when they come out of the protection system, they're people who are empowered and they're not vulnerable. The government is working because no one has ever been left alone since the split years and we can do a follow-up process. One of the options is to do it through the programs that there is for extolls. Without going any further, a few days ago we set up a pilot scheme aimed at teenagers and young migrants without family references for young people between the ages of seven and twenty-one, which provides education and training so as to facilitate their subsequent integration into the world of work. This plan has opened with forty young people in Tarragona, but we have plans to keep new cents. We need to be able to rethink the protection system, empower it that improves and improve what doesn't work at a time when situations are every time more complex. For all intents and purposes, to raise the institutional level of childhood policies, as you know, we have recently created the Secretary of Children, Adolescents and Youth within the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, with the aim of improving this comprehensive vision of childhood policies, adolescence and youth, and of the rights of children and adolescents, and with the task of coordinating and evaluating and promoting initiatives in favour of children and young people, as well as directing the cross-cutting programmes in these matters that have gone beyond my intervention. A shared, complex vision that will have the potential to integrate all policies oriented towards our children, from a fully cross-cutting optical to all areas of government: education, health, justice, work, housing..., and always under the prevention of situations that trigger risk situations and focus on vulnerable collections. This is a task we don't have to do and we can't do alone from the government, and I want to thank the professionals who deal with children here: they have at their hands the most precious jewel of our society, our young people. As Rosa Sensat said, "The first thing is to learn to live, and that is why today's debate should or should go. Among all we have to make it possible: entities, institutions and all the people who work with people, among all we have to be able to build a society that is more democratic, fairer, more egalitarian, where our infants can, yes, learn to live. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.29.0	Thank you, President. Then we suspended the session for half an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.30.0	Let's resume the session. [[Pause.]] And let's get back to the debate. It is now the turn of the parliamentary groups. I, first of all, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Inés Arrimadas, for a maximum of fifteen minutes. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.31.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Torra, I recognize one thing: it is very difficult to participate in a parliamentary debate with you, because the interaction is absolutely nil. I think I could have made a completely different speech that you were going to answer me absolutely the same thing. A written speech, a lot of rhetoric, and zero interaction. It is very difficult to have a parliamentary debate with you, Mr Torra, I acknowledge that. He doesn't answer anything; but it's no longer just that he doesn't answer, because sometimes not answering something, well, it can be a reason for other questions, it's that you're waterproof to what they say, waterproof. It comes with a written speech..., many questions that have been put on the table and that I think are interesting and that are important, so you do not address them. Why? Because it wasn't in the previously written text. Perhaps it would have been good if another counselor could have intervened to supplement some of the information or the necessary intervention of a full child. It is very important, this issue, we are talking about the future of the children of Catalonia. Is it perhaps worth a little more calm debate, perhaps a little more interaction between the different actors who have to participate in this debate? We wanted to give you a bath of reality, but it is that you are waterproof to reality, Mr Torra, waterproof. It's that it doesn't matter what reality is put before it, the data, the complaints from workers, families, it's that it doesn't matter, it gives them absolutely the same. A lot of rhetoric, Mr Torra, a lot of rhetoric, in your written speech – a lot of rhetoric – and I have come to you with realities, concrete examples, easy-to-solve issues, sometimes it's just an internal coordination issue, a question of changing protocols, of holding study tables, of improving legislative changes. If not everything is large budget items, that of course, and I will also give you an example of how to prioritize it better. But you are impermeable to the reality of Catalans, impermeable. Self-criticism zero, Mr. Torra, self-criticism zero. You said: "No, it's just that – I'm going to give you some examples, because I do interact and respond to what you say, right? – « we in the Generalitat of Catalonia devote a lot of resources to children's policies. Man, I'd just miss if you didn't put in a single euro. But the problem is, like everything else, what others do and what we do. Well, in the Generalitat of Catalonia the investment in children's policies is 0.8_per_cent of GDP, and with that same measurement system – which I agree with you that, if you change the system, then the comparison has to be equal for all – with that same system, in the Spanish average, do you know where they are? In 1.3, half a percentage point more on GDP. I am no longer talking about the European average, which is light years away, not only from Catalonia but also from Spain as a whole, we are at 2.4. Compare yourself to others. You do not prioritize child policies, you do not prioritize anything other than the process. And that's seen with data, with data, Mr. Torra: 0.8 in Catalonia; in the rest of Spain, 1.3. Another issue raised by him was the 2013 pact. Do you know why you cannot come here to explain with some credit how the covenant has been applied and how it has been carried out? Because you didn't want to make a compliance report. Do you know who has repeatedly asked you to do so? Our colleagues in the parliamentary group. I know what we're asking you..., what people will say "Uuuh! , a 2013 compliance report. Well, you haven't had time to do that. You have not had time or desire or simply do not want to give information to the opposition or to the citizens that you have done nothing, because you have not prioritized anything, Mr Torra, you have not prioritized this. But do you really think that someone listens to you talk and that your priority is childhood? Do you really think there's someone who believes you? I don't think so – I don't think so. Another example: Social Services Portfolio. You have spoken about social services, because you have also taken that as one of the elements affecting children, and obviously that is so. Do you know what the Generalitat of Catalonia has done? The last time the portfolio of services was updated – which also affects, is broader, but it affects children – is 2006–2006. The law says that every four years the service portfolio needs to be updated. Well, in 2011 the Generalitat only extended the portfolio of services. We are in the year 2018, ending, 2019 we are already getting started, you have a portfolio of services of the socio-economic reality of Catalonia of 2006. In that, too, is the fault of Madrid, which you do not renew, do not update the service portfolio? Is that Madrid's fault too? I'm talking about concrete things. Another case, the 2010 law, can you explain why your Government has not fully deployed the 2010 law? Is it also the fault of Madrid? Who's to blame? Is the opposition responsible for this? But as you do not answer me because you make a speech, you bring it done, so you do not answer me a very clear question: a law, a good law of the year 2010 is not deployed, you can give me the explanation of why. Another thing I have asked you, which you have not answered: why our Child Protection Act, which dealt with problems such as abuse, such as sexual abuse, such as harassment..., why do you block it? Why do you block something that we have transferred to Parliament, which is a demand from the entities, which is better coordination, that of the single register, why doesn't it respond to this? If it's too easy. Have you really not been able to make a single record of child abuse since 2007? Was it that hard? That they have no competence to do so? Who's to blame, who's to blame? The inclusive school, a lot of rhetoric – a lot of rhetoric – of the inclusive school. But I have given you a specific case of a very specific group whose rights are being violated. What do you say? He's not answering. I'm going to give you an example because I think it's especially bloody. All families wishing to take in their right to have sign language in schools, the entities have submitted to them [[the education advisor denies with the head]] – yes, yes – an entity has introduced you [[The Education Advisor raises a saying]] - No, no, no, Well, an entity has introduced you... – by weight, as it is only an entity, so it doesn't matter. Do you know how much it would cost, Mr. Torra, Mr. Counsellor, to give you that right that you ask all families to ask for a sign language at school? About 300,000_euros per year – about 300,000_euros per year. We're not talking about one thing... I will give you an example, every year the Generalitat of Catalonia – and this example is bloody – every year the Generalitat of Catalonia pays 652,000_euros of the mortgage of a building of Cultural Action, of the Valencia Country, in Valencia. A pan-Catalanist entity. Because you, who know all of Catalonia, pay Cultural Action of the Valencia Country the mortgage of the building you have bought – well, you have bought, you are holders, but you pay it, that is, us – in Valencia, to do your pan-Catalanist activities. It will cost the building 9,6_million_de_euro according to its own data, because we will pay it – 9,6_million_de_euro. Every year you pay the mortgage on that building, 652,000 euros. But 300,000_euros to give families their right to have a sign language in schools is that it is inconceivable. And it's Madrid's fault. Really, I know it's not all that simple, but you can't deny reality. The issue of health, for example. You haven't answered me – you haven't answered me – Mr. Torra. There are abysmal territorial differences. I can give you examples, which I was now commenting on with my fellow Member. Do you know that there are differences in the number of visits that children can have, for example, with ADHD or TA? For you to make an order of magnitude: children in Catalonia who are attending therapies paid by the Generalitat of Catalonia with these two disorders, ADHD and TA, many have visits of thirty_minutes one every two months. Do you believe that proper treatment for a child with any of these disorders is a thirty - minute visit every two months? Are you happy with this? Can you really go out and say that we have a system of success? I think we have a very big problem. So, what's going on? , that children from families with resources obviously have more treatment, why? Because they pay for it. Because they can afford it. And they don't have a thirty-minute session every two months, no. They have a much better treatment, but why. Because they pay him, because they can pay him. Children who do not have resources have to conform, because in many cases I insist, because there are territorial differences also, a session of thirty_minutes every two months. What does Mr. Torra have to say about this? Nothing. They're very happy with everything that's going on. And, less rhetorical, what they're going to do – what they're going to do. Solutions. Solutions on the table. Calendars. What are they going to do, how, when. Because it's good to throw the hot ball at the city halls. What you don't do is done in the first place by families – in the first place – who are supplying what you don't do. And there's a feeling of abandoning a lot of families who have this kind of huge problems, feeling alone before you, as you see them with other priorities – while you see them with other priorities. Professionals feel absolutely powerless, because they would like to do more and they can't, they find themselves, huh? , face to face with reality with families. Town halls, yes. The municipalities are assuming..., and other entities too, other administrations are assuming what would be yours. The subject..., has done me, if I may, grace a part of your intervention when you have started to explain how important education is from zero to three years. Well, of course, the strange and cynical thing is that you, knowing how important it is, have allocated zero euros in recent years, zero. Of course it is important; of course it determines the cognitive and educational development of children. Of course, families with fewer resources have less access to this type of education. I know how we are: in other situations, what we are working on is in the processes of sensitizing vulnerable families so that they know how important it is to bring children from zero to three years, but what we are talking about here is that you don't want a euro. It's just that we're at an absolutely previous stage. What you have not done has had to be done by the municipalities or families, because there are also many families paying a lot of money to take your children to day care. And I'd like to comment on many more things, but we have time restriction. Guardianship, the system of guardianship. The system had not worked since before arrival, the increase in the arrival of unaccompanied minors. Listen a little bit to the professionals: the system fails before the tutelage, with the mechanisms of prevention; during the tutelage, and then..., you haven't talked about the after. Many 18-year-olds – well, adults already, 18-year-olds – come out after the Generalitat's guardianship system. Real problems, helpless. You don't talk about this. Less banners, please, and more solutions, because we're talking about the lives of thousands of boys and girls. And then you said, "No, it's that the problem is Spain, because... l'Estat has given us a few resources. Because, how can I not? The subject has come up. If you care so much about this difference in criteria when it comes to distributing aid – that we can agree that this situation is being discussed, I agree – why does it happen when you are meeting with Pedro Sánchez speak to him 90_per_cent of his time in the referendum? Why don't you talk to him about these things? Why do their counselors not go to coordination meetings with other autonomous communities? Why do they not want to go and defend the interests of Catalans at a funding system reform meeting? Because if you only focus on 90_per_cent in the referendum, then, of course, you don't have time, do you? , to tell Mr. Pedro Sánchez to distribute these resources better, in your opinion. Because this is what a president of the Generalitat would do, that's what a government would do to think of all Catalans. But you don't care. Another issue I have put on the table: the lack of coordination between the various departments of the Generalitat. It is one of the great problems with the subject of abuse, with the subject of abuse. It's gone over. No, yeah, she just doesn't care. That's just your competition, there can't help anyone but you, Mr. Torra, can't look for anyone else guilty. Have you answered what you intend to do with our law dealing with this issue, the protocol issue and the coordination issue? Listen to the opposition, listen to the professionals, stop blocking the parliamentary debate. Then we wake up this week with the news..., well, with the news; with, let's say, the reflection that in this Parliament there has not been a single law passed in what goes from year to year, new, a new law of some new theme, some need. No, no, Why? Because you're at the usual: the commission of 155, all your things. Which, by the way, you have named in your speech, says: "I will not speak of independence; no, you have only spoken of exiles, repression and 155. I mean, we're walking. We're losing a decade in Catalonia, we've been losing a decade with his obsession. Do you not realize that in many of these matters we could agree? This very week I believe that there has been a pact at the level of all Spain, a pact for children that will come out unanimously. Why? Because political parties have to come to terms with what we share. But with you it is impossible, because you have a barrier, you have divided Catalan society by half, and you do not want us to agree on issues like this. Why? Because it's always Spain's fault, because you're not to blame for anything. We have been missing a decade in Catalonia to really talk about what matters to all Catalans, what all Catalans suffer from, what they could really solve with a little bit of political will. Because I insist on this idea, not everything is budget, but also. You're not permeable to reality, you're impermeable to reality in Catalonia, and I'm sorry, but I think most Catalans will agree with me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.32.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.33.0	...in which it is impossible to think that you will go down to the reality of Catalonia. For us to have a government that cares about the reality of Catalans, the only option is to change government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.34.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.35.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.36.0	Next, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.37.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable Presidents, Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament, today we are discussing the situation of childhood in Catalonia, and this is not the first time we have done this, we have usually done it to the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and the Family, to the Committee on Children, we have also done it in previous debates that we have had on poor situations in Catalonia. And if the government has only made half of the proposals that this Parliament has put on the table respect this issue, the situation at these times, I can assure you that it would be very different. Catalonia is not a country for childhood: it has no plan, we don't know where we are going. The Government has not implemented any effective measure to reverse the situation of the most vulnerable population, necessary measures to ensure that Catalonia will enjoy a future where equal opportunities and reducing inequalities, especially in the youngest population, are a reality. If we want to invest in the present, but especially if we want to invest in the future, we need to invest in childhood. A poor infant has two times more chances of dying than rich infants; it is more likely that poor children will drop out of school, become obese and still feel poor when they reach adulthood. The poor and inequality are transmitted, inherited, are communicating vessels. The socio-economic level, president, marks everything. Catalonia needs a policy of childhood and not a little justified spending and sometimes a little connected with policies. The arguments put forward by the Government do not stand up when they come out of the fold or when they come out of this own Parliament; you cannot come here and say words like ‘we want to put the child at the centre of politics or that ‘childhood is a priority for our Government.' Well, you can say that, actually. And even so, I am sure that some of you believe this, but unfortunately, I must say that the children and families of Catalonia have not seen, in the last eight years, an effective policy carried to the end by the Government of Catalonia that has served to substantially improve their living conditions. And it will not be because of a lack of proposals, in any case, it has been because of a lack of political priority and the constant lack of respect for the pocket of this Parliament and the proposals approved there. You made a speech with a lot of rhetoric, but with no concreteness. And I, as President of the Government of Catalonia, ask you to realize that citizens and citizens can know what it is that you will do one year from now, six months from now in relation to childhood policies. In concrete terms, Mr. President. They can't say that childhood is a priority when they are nine years old – I repeat – said Mrs. Arrimadas, nine years old, 3,300 days without developing the Law of Rights and Opportunities of Childhood, adolescence. They can't come here and say they want to put the infant in the center of politics. Deploy the law of your rights, deploy it. New years, what else has to happen? The Government has forgotten the Social Pact for the Childhood and Adolescence of the Year 2013. You mentioned it today, from the year 2013, a pact made between political parties and civil society. It's all right, there's only a few territorial jails deployed. Not to mention, they don't even have the current website. The Children's and Adolescents' Pact is not held since the year 2015 – 2015. Gather the different actors to talk about childhood. Not a meeting, Mr. President. The comprehensive childhood and adolescence care plan is out of date, out of date this year. The next time we get him from here to six months, from here to one year, from here to nine years? He's working, he's meeting someone, he's got any pockets? No, no, We don't care about childhood and adolescence. They have not deployed the Order on Procedures and Measures for the Protection of Infants at Risk, Detachment or Protective Guard, which is binding on the 2010 law. The Government of Catalonia left 2016 to account for infants and young people in situations of food difficulty. It's just that it's very hard, President. We made a good inclusive school decree, but they don't have any money to deploy it, Counselor. In Catalonia, children with disabilities can cheat until one year after their certificate of disability. One year. You have not been able to reduce the waiting lists of those children with mental health problems at CSMIJ and CDIAP. More than a year's waiting time, in the best of cases, forty-five minutes of attention to the week for problems, for example, of speech or psychology. An hour of speech or psychology, private are sixty_euros. I say this because if the public does not cover it, it will have to cover the private and, therefore, it will mean that only those that can be paid – and here I come with the differences from the income point – only that can be paid will it guarantee a future with better conditions than the others. At this point, the government is unable to ensure that protocols for sexual abuse of Catalan schools are complete. I'll tell you what, the Sexual Abuse Protocol Follow-up Committee to Minors, which is the Chair's task, isn't meeting since a year and a half ago. The Follow-up Committee on Sexual Abuse in Minors has not met since a year and a half ago. I look if the government is interested in child and family policies, that the year 2018_was the only year in which the performance guide was not published and you served families. I'm talking about very simple things, president, things that don't cost a lot of money. Up to and including information to families to find out who are the resources that can have their benefits. The government is unable to ensure – and Mrs. Arrimadas also said – that all deaf students signing in Catalonia have a sign language interpreter throughout school hours. They came here, they denounced it, they talked to Councilman Bargalló, this Parliament approved that it should be covered that an interpreter is in class before a child and that he can translate what is going on. At these times they only have half the classes, in the best of cases. Half way. If we are not able to guarantee that a child, a deaf child can have an interpreter, how can you come here and say that you want to put childhood in the center of politics? How can you be talking about an inclusive school, Mr. Counselor? It's that, of course, they're reality that they hit us a lot and that I think you have the responsibility to carry them out and to improve them. In addition, a clear proposal in the form of guaranteed income for citizens has emerged from this Parliament, which you ensure for a few minimums, a life worthy, especially for children, guaranteeing 100 euros per month per child. And we see that the disastrous deployment of guaranteed income will also serve us if you continue to manage it as a real return guarantee policy that secures children's social exclusion in Catalonia. You do not have a childhood policy, there is no new proposal, beyond the "we will continue, " we will work, " we will push, and what happens next, years of commitment. And so they carry you through new years without concrete actions, without project. Before they made strategic plans, covenants, laws, so as not to complete them, but they do them; it's neither now nor that – it's now nor that. If only you were complicating what was agreed, the laws from which this Parliament was endowed would be – I insist – in another situation. Ladies and gentlemen, for us, a good childhood policy is one based on equal opportunities, which any child, who, without resources or without resources, finds in public services access to goods and services that allow him, each with his abilities, to develop himself as a person. Children's policies must prevent inequalities from starting from birth; they must seek the child's welfare; they must guarantee access to salvation, education, social protection, the oci, gambling, social participation and psychosocial development. Iron childhood policies is also iron family policies – almost non-existent in Catalonia. The few that existed disappeared in 2011. When I speak of childhood policies, I speak of families at risk of social exclusion, but also of those who are not there and who need positive inputs, recovery by the Administration in the form of quality services. If we had to highlight one more bit of the other maybe it would be the bressol school network, to which you have allocated zero_euros during all these years. It is this type of disinterest to which I refer by his government. A good childhood policy is also a good fiscal policy, which increases public resources, which distributes tax charges based on the economic capacity of every citizen. And you made reference in your speech to a given, says: "Unicef estimates that the government's infancy investment represents 23.5 per cent of the generality's total expenditure. This is about EUR 8,930 million, you say 4.63% of GDP. So, that's double what the European media is about. I went to the report, back this year, huh? "Catalonia's childhood and poverty is not going to be taken care of, a combination to break up. I'm going to get the data, I can't find it. I diu: "Investment in social protection for children and families in relation to GDP is only one-third of the European average, 0.8, compared to 2.4_per_cent, and social transfers manage to reduce poverty among children very little. The other report says exactly the same data and just said: "It is worth noting that the percentage of reversal even decreased by more than 11_per_cent compared to the previous years. I would ask the one who prepared the speech, if you please, that, as a minimum, be more careful with the data and even more if you have to tell them as President of the Generality of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forwarding Units will present about a hundred proposals in this House, some of which I would like to highlight. We plan the equipping of single-maritime families to the families we call, we want them all to share the same tax benefits, transport prices, taxes and prices related to studies and documentation, access to school places, imports of sub-administrations and cultural goods, among others. Moreover, in the sector of single-maritime families, who are the most affected by the crisis situation and those who have been oblivious, often preaching to be likened to the prominent families of our country. We want Catalonia to have a figure equivalent to the High Commission for the Fight against the Poor Child, as it has put itself in the way of the Government of the State, which allows us to have an accurate analysis of the situation of childhood in Catalonia, which participates in the design of policies that are currently non-existent, which makes a report to us by the Government of what is the situation of childhood in Catalonia, which we always have to draw from the reports that make, fortunately, social entities. You don't have any information about the situation of childhood in Catalonia, you don't have any! That's what happens after the data happens. We're betting for an increase in the number of seats and CRAE's more ambitious than it's ever been; it's been done, Mr. Counselor, it's been done. But also a better in the protocols of attention to unaccompanied minors, which we found in the lack of coordination between the departments of the Generality, which causes scenes of minors sleeping at the commissariats of the Mossos, councils or the same City of Justice. That the government is communicating directly with the assemblies, that it doesn't – that it doesn't – with the mayors of those municipalities where the lesser strangers are destined not accompanied. But we are also concerned about those who are not strangers, minors who have to be at home, who are likely to suffer or suffer the same situations for whom they have to enter a protection system and cannot do so because there is no place for them. This was already happening before in our protection system, before the arrival of the unaccompanied minors, it was already col·lapsed! There were kids at home waiting to get into a square, and they couldn't do it. So, it's not a question that the underage haven't been accompanied yet, is it? We also bet for a better amount on the working conditions of and professionals working with children, both to the protection system and to the juvenile justice system. If you want to make childhood and family policies, gather our proposal to create a shoc plan to reduce the thousand families that are on the waiting list to access a Social Emergency Table habitat; social habitation. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance proposes the creation of a new economic performance for children and young people younger than twenty-three years who have been victims of male violence, who guarantee their economic resources, who ensure their academic formation and who can access the psychosocial treatments that can be learned from their experience of family violence. Bullying, school setting, sexual abuse situations, require new figures and models to attack situations that just grow. This is why we propose the incorporation of social educators from all the teaching teams of the public and concerted primary and secondary schools in Catalonia. Among other actions, we bet that in Catalonia the KiVa project – which you, Mr. Bargalló, must know – is installed, where teachers and families are formed and children are helped to recognize the situation and the assessor is winged. We propose the creation of bodies similar to the cases of infants that exist in Islam and Sweden, which gather under one space all departments that intervene in a case of sexual abuse – social services, justice, teaching or salvation – in order to avoid the infant's pilgrimage to various institutions, which involves his or her revictimization. Sexual abuse or asset-building are assignments pending on the part of public authorities. The reality of our inquiry: 17_percent of the Catalan population suffered sexual rape during their childhood. And the communication media. We ask the media of the Catalan corporation to eliminate all the advertising of online games, drunks and unhealthy foods during protected time fringes, both on television and on radio, as well as on web pages. If we want citizens formats, criticisms, creativity, we have to eliminate, as a Culture Advisor, the barriers that separate from creation and cultural consumption. For this reason, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units propose the free entry to all cultural equipment owned or participated for the Government of Catalonia for the youngest of seven years. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be for proposals; I do not have enough time to explain the content of the hundred proposals we have made. Catalonia needs to have a child with equal opportunities. Zygmunt Bauman said that the quality of life of a society is measured by the attention given to the most disadvantaged sectors, and, if we take this maximum, the quality of the Catalan society is much better, the attention of the public authorities to childhood is of great importance. You'd do well, from the government. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , to do something to recover the social dialogue – I finish, president – with entities, to complete the same laws approved by this Parliament, to approve the general assumptions of the State to increase infancy investment, but not, unfortunately, the infancy will continue in oblivion. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.38.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Ms Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.39.0	Good morning, President. Councillors, advisors, deputies, deputies and assistants to the plenary, why should a specific plethora of children be served at a time like the present? So it should serve as an analysis of what is the real situation of childhood in the country, to make real proposals for discussing what does not work, to place childhood on the political and social agenda of our country. But today we're wasting a tool like a specific plethora of childhood, we're wasting it doing it in a week when, informationally, it's going to be absolutely underground. And it will be absolutely buried by some who try to get this week basically to tighten the rope with the national theme and, if it can be, to break it; by some who cover with flags the social situation of our country. As it goes, we will not neglect the opportunity to try to situate public policies of childhood where they are close, which, Mr. Torra, is at the centre of the political agenda. And we want to make it with proposals; not with a hundred proposals, but with the most symbolic ones on the issues that we will discuss and that we believe it should be urgent to put them on the march. And how is childhood in the centrality of politics? So it's not saying it; neither do you nor do we. It's changing things. Because right now childhood is at the forefront of social policies and social investment in our country. Why do we want the child to be in this centrality? - Let's talk about the fund. Because public spending in childhood is not expense, it's reversal, it's absolutely reversal, it's reversal of present, but it's especially reversal of future, and it's very profitable to change realities, if it's used well. What's our society's main problem? It's inequality, it's inequality of origin, ability, gender, but especially class inequality, it's inequality of entrances and, therefore, possibilities and options to pull in front of a family, and especially childhood. And, as I said in this chamber in October, with an inquiry and a motion about childhood – about the poor child, in fact, concretely – this should be one of the priorities of this government. One-third of our infants are poor; the year 2017 raised the poor by 4.5_per_cent compared to the previous year, and, moreover, all the evidence shows that the child population is the population, per age, at a higher risk of poverty and with a poorer each time more intense. Therefore, it is not only that there are poor children: it is that there is more and more poor. If we want to attack the poor, if we understand that inequality is one of the main problems or is the main problem of our country, we must attack it for childhood, to begin with. Being a poor infant conditions you to be a poor adult; therefore, it is an inversion to attack the poor of our present, but it is also especially an inversion to reduce the poor of adults in our future. We do not just want to keep the data; we have said that we will put forward concrete, symbolic proposals if they want to, but we believe, the most urgent in each of the themes. And on this subject there is no need for any kind of proposals, to go to what is effective. And that means bravery, because the proven effective proposal, which claims from years ago Fedaia, Pincat, Save the Children, Caritas, UNICEF and the Syndic of Greuges, is one in this issue, it's render, it's a child's income, it's a child's benefit, but with child's ownership. That means a lot of public resources, yes, but it's possible. It's what the Barcelona Assembly did! , which has no skills and, even if not, has made an important effort of courage, and this means assumptions and prioritization, to make a foundation of zero-seven childhood, which was created since 2015, but which in this mandate has been very strong in doubling the amount destined for it, and this has caused 2017 to benefit more than a thousand children in Barcelona. And it doesn't just show that it can be done, but it shows that it works, because it's now three years old applying, and comparatively Barcelona begins to have data that shows that the poor child is less intense than at the time of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] The data point to better in the situations of the most severe poor, even though it is a source only endowed with the Barcelona Assembly. Therefore, there are effective proposals. It's also shown in other countries, and you tell them all from this world of childhood. If this is the main problem, we have the main solution. That means assumptions, yes, and we're not doing well. Investment in social protection, education and primary care has continued to fall in recent years, and has particularly affected childhood. Catalonia invests less than 1_percent of its GDP – it is this, the given, president – in social protection for children, and it is very far from 2.4 of the European average. We only invest 3.7_per_cent in education; the European average exceeds 5_per_cent, counselor. You know that. They know that among the priorities that Catalonia in Comú We can put as a minimum priority to talk about assumptions for the coming year, one of them is that we have to double the investment in direct infancy for the coming year. They have the proposal on the table; we will repeat it again, but this is it – this is it. Is it possible to claim resources from the State? Obviously also; som-hi. We're complaining about them, too. There is a proposal of general assumptions of the State that bets on resources in child poverty, as had not been apostated until now; insufficient certainly, but there were not these resources or this proposal of resources, so far, giving the table. Do they take advantage of the 21st to talk to the Government of the State about the possibility of improving these resources also for children, for Catalonia, from certain assumptions for the year coming from the State? Talk to you too, negotiate with the state about the assumptions. Clearly, the only one we know right now that his PDECAT partners are negotiating at the Congress with Mr. Pedro Sánchez is about labor reform, it's not like he's changing some of the things that convergents, at the time, have agreed with the People's Party and that we have now poor workers and, therefore, children with a more severe poverty in Catalonia. I'm talking to Mr. Sanchez about the one he's playing on 21-D. There are many resources, but they can also be spent well and, therefore, not only on efficient services, for example, of child ownership, but also on elements that sometimes do not depend on assumptions and that show us that you continue to fail to work well on your internal coordination skills in government and coordination with other administrations. And it's planning; a word that has been revolutionary lately in Catalonia. The other day we told them to start looking revolutionary to demand that the government governments – I no longer tell them to ask that the government plans – but we don't give up. Cal planning, coordination and evaluation of policies due to completion, and correction to what is not working. They do not serve the star pacts; they do not serve a law that is not regularly deployed; they do not serve us the constant announcements of the will to review the child protection system, which never comes to fruition; they do not serve to the professionals of the child protection system, but they do not manage to develop the changes that the same DGAIA has studied that it would be necessary to improve the circumstances of professionals; nor does it serve a platform to promote the welcome, without sufficient presupposition. It's about assessing and solving the reasons why many things that have worked out in the last few years or that I'm sure they're working aren't working. They have a great opportunity, with the obligation that it is like the government of the Generality, to plan how they complete the objectives of sustainable development worldwide. Barcelona used it, this opportunity. The ODSs force us to plan with indicators, with objectives... Use it for childhood. The ODSs fix many of the things that really affect childhood. They have an opportunity to make a planning that is serious and that allows me to improve this coordination within his own administration and with other administrations, especially with that of the local world. I'm going to plan for the dice. And this is a world that is a drama – it is a drama. They have already said this before: we have a lot of studies on childhood, but they come from civil society and from the syndic. We need public administration, which has many data, but it does not have the means to dig them up, to use them well and to evaluate them, which are reporting on what is the situation of childhood and what is the real impact of public policies that are both a fan and the real investment that is already in childhood. We have the feeling, president, advisors, that what's happening to them is that, like they don't do this type of forecasting, planning, reviewing, with enough work to give the abst to respond to the emergence. And the emergence is sometimes overflowing, we recognize it, and this is, for example, what happened to the issue of unaccompanied infants and young people. It was not a new subject, it was not an unpredictable subject, it was not a subject that could not have been known to exist and that there would be in larger quantities in our country; but it has overflowed us, and has overflowed in particular a system of protection from the childhood that was already in crisis. So, please, let's not fall any further into this mistake: planifyn – planifyn. I don't want to use the issue of infants and young people not accompanying themselves as a trigger weapon, I've told them a thousand times, and we don't do it; but as a warning touch a lot will be that you can't go on like this. Not only can't go on without planning, but can't go on without reviewing the child protection system. It is urgent that those things that I want to think are happening are presented to the Parliament of Catalonia and society soon. And it's urgent, too, that they regularly deploy the LDOIA, and make the same system of protection complete to what says a law that is good, that we have and that we are not complete. I want to make them, quickly, a pass to some more fears. We didn't want to talk about a hard, underground, invisible problem, but it exists, that it's sexual abuse. It has already been mentioned before: the Save the Children report that tells us that in Catalonia children represent half the victims of sexual abuse; that there is a difficult problem of coordination of departments that causes a child to repeat until once his or her witness when he or she reports a case of sexual abuse. And this, it stands in the circumstance, most likely generates some inconsistency between one statement and the other. The consequence of this is that there is an overlay in set_of_each_of two cases of reporting child sexual abuse. That's in the cases where there's a complaint. It's not the best way to tackle the issue of sexual abuse, this. There are many more problems with the subject of sexual abuse, but we have told them: we will put symbolic proposals on each of the themes. In this, really, the proposal that puts us on the Save the Children table – but because it is an evidence that works in Sweden or that works in Iceland – it is that of the children's home; a single space for coordination of all departments, does not generate a great economic expense, and, in change, makes the infant only have to declare a time, and it is much more efficient for the judicial system. In education, we should be talking about background things, sure: from right to complete education from zero to divide; from the public system, with gratuitousness, to enclosing food space, to enclosing it..., but we want to talk about concrete and urgent things. We have to guarantee a real... second chances. And that, there are elements that already exist and that do not work, because there is no coordination between Education and Work. And we have to guarantee zero-three. Accessible for everyone. And 20 million euros, counselor, that's what they've announced they're going to put up for this, they know it's not enough. No, no, It's less than half of what you'd have to put in order to guarantee that third of the cost of public school places that you're required to finance. In Greetings, the main problem we have with our infants and young people is feeding. And, therefore, we need to put in strong food security measures, because it's not food because people want to, eat badly, but because by social class and by admissions to their families they don't eat balancedly. And the other hard problem we have is mental salvation; another hard problem that has a clear social class bias. The CSMIJs are overflowing. Resources are being used to ensure that CSMIJs, mental health centres for young and young people, work, but CDIAPs also serve up to six years. I've included one time and another the report of the syndic of Greuges. The habitations. Caritas Barcelona's latest report says that a 44_percent of families with fewer to less than one carrec, endorsed by Caritas in the Barcelona area, suffer from residential exclusion. The children who live in these circumstances suffer many more consequences in mental health, in health itself, in learning problems, in school drop-outs, than many others because they do not have a habitat worthy of being with their family, to work, to be able to have some minimum conditions. And one last element: escorting infants. This is also a right of infants, of the International Convention on the Rights of Children. We can guarantee the participation of children and young people in schools, families and society, but especially in all those policies that directly affect them, and in this the UN gives us an annual renunciation: Spain is not full, Catalonia is not full either. This is a very political debate, it's a very ideological debate, what we're doing today, and unfortunately, it's certainly not going to be very media. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We are talking about a question of political priorities, which country we have and which country we want. If you want to introduce...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.40.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.41.0	... if they want to build – I finish, president –..., if they want to build a decent present, but above all, a better future, we must really prioritize childhood policies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.42.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, it is now the turn of Mr Vidal Aragonese deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.43.0	Good morning, everyone. As with so many other questions, talking about who the most vulnerable are is talking about, too, a class question. If the most vulnerable are the children and girls of the most precarious working classes. Surely we could talk about three elements that condition this question of more vulnerability. For a band, poor; 20_percent of the country in the outburst of the poor. On the other hand, work, and as labour is expressed, which may not have work, may have precarious work, or may have a work that does not make the cure of children compatible. And thirdly, you serve public services that are not guaranteed with a universal criteria: from bressol schools to teaching through sanitation and social services. This causes, in childhood, lack of equality: lack of equality in learning, lack of equality in emotional instability and physical salvation. It affects, not only the underage, but also, many times, the seas, which, in a patriarchal society like ours, end up supposing that the Administration does not give answers. What we are saying does not mean, the speech, that we can not make policies specifically about childhood, more quickly to the contrary. We consider that we need to make specific policies to be the effects of removing all the vulnerabilities of minors. We placed the class as a central issue, but we do not want to forget that there are other elements that also cause double and triple vulnerabilities: people LGTBI, by reason of disability or by reason of origin; by reason or in origin, in being person LGTBI. Since the teaching a main task has to be made; the main task that passes through sexual information based on the affective diversity, but also, for a transversal action, from history to literature. For what it does to the disability, of the few data we will give: 27,6_per_cent increase between 2009 and 2014 in relation to the minor and the minor attentions to child and youth mental health. The CSMIJ are absolutely collapsed because this has not been accompanied, the percentage increase, with an increase, also, percentage, of mediums. And, for what it does to the origin, and we've been talking about it for a long time, it respects the situation of children who don't have Spanish nationality, who are appreciable, unaccompanied asylum seekers. We must make a clear reflection: without immigration, this country will not be sustainable, and we must begin to incorporate this idea. And the day of today, these minor or minor unaccompanied are not given the expectation of an autonomous life once the guardianship of the Administration has ended. Therefore, we must not only guarantee a dignified life while being protected, but also an alternative to an autonomous development once the protection has been completed. And, starting with this collection of minors, a few months ago, in July, we were already talking to the Commission for Children about how there was a minimum forecast of more than 200 unaccompanied minors. It may be 2,400, it may be 3,800, but what we also have to do, by political responsibility, is not to take on those speeches that place us, to the minor as col·lapsants. No collapsing. This is a country that has the capacity to rebre, to say the least, 19,100,000 tourists a year. The col·lapse is caused by the Administration, when it is not equipped with means, economic means and human means. DGAIA should be playing a central role. But what do we find? We find that there is not enough economic resources, nor workers; that it is privatized or that privatization continues and that the same management is precarious. It has already begun to assume itself at the time of the tripartite, and, today, what it means is that 80 percent of the seats are private management, with some businesses and foundations – and let's say some – that have not had any problems in simply negotiating the management of the infantry. That there is no planning of the performances with respect to the young, and that, for another band, at last, we find ourselves with administrations that give contradictory instructions. Therefore, it lacks absolute coordination. Also, on minors, poverty and salvation, that in the end we have to see as an action that must not go further than to eradicate the poor, but to put mitjans for deep policies that minimize its effects. Simply, work for equal opportunities. Bressol schools. If we have a Bressol school that means 300 or 400_ euros a month, what do we say or what effect do we have on families, who work, one person, part-time, three or four hours? So his tickets are the same as he has to pay for a school in Bressol, and so we're expelling them. If we have, too, public schools lacking media, and, above all, those that have another concertation of students of great complexity, we cause that if there is not enough reversal, there is, first, a stigmatization about the same school and a second stigmatization about the students and students of that school. Or insufficient fooders. It is not possible that to donate the cent_per_cent of the feeding scholarship you have to take the risk consideration hard, and what this means, the risk hard, that it is a daily expulsion of the cent_per_cent of the scholarship, and, therefore, only the 50_per_cent of the scholarship, that is not enough. Or when we have lists of toilet waits, which are also given, for the underage. Less than a half a hundred and two-day waiting period, when we're talking about hospital pediatrics, and it's increased the waiting list days in the next four years. We're talking about these little ones, we're talking about how we don't even set a priority criteria, and we're talking about how there are children and children who will be touched and touched for the rest of their lives for a matter of salvation. And, of course, also, what it means in relation to social services: more demand since 2018, which has not been complemented with more resources, since 2008. We do not want to end, too, without fixing a question that is central: the situation of workers and workers working for childhood, a situation that is temporary in a good sector or percentage of these and these, and every time more rotation, and more rotation because their working conditions are often not bearable. And, therefore, what they can or can find another job, many times the industry's margin. We would have to do an exercise, like at least, to ensure the job stability of workers, and minimum conditions of compliments of the Law on the Prevention of Occupational Risks, which is not always given. Or we should establish, as a minimum, the compliment of the educational and social workers, of 2-3 per 15,000 inhabitants. And then the question that we want to talk about – a topic that is being discussed more and more every time, but that we are still not looking for the necessary alternatives – is the withdrawal of custody, thinking about the minor, but also thinking about the parents, the seas or the guardians. Of course we have to bet on a comprehensive policy, where the child's interest is the priority, and therefore his right to be heard or to be heard, but we have to see how the responsibility of the Administration is compatible, also, with the rights of the parents, the seas and the guardians, in order to participate in these processes in a guaranteed way. Practically, everyone in this Parliament has explained some dramatic experiences of withdrawal from custody. To end, in the end, it needs greater investment of resources, bet for public management and specific actions in a comprehensive way to remove situations of vulnerability that suffer the least.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.44.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Xavier García Albiol has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.45.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Members, Members, at the length of this debate we have seen, we have been able to draw some conclusions which can be consistent with most of us, especially in the diagnostics, not so much, surely, as we can face them, but in the diagnostics. And there is an evidence that seems to me that it can also be shared, and it is that, at these moments, the conjunction of the Spanish, Catalan society, in concrete terms, that it is the one that brings us today, here, is still patenting the consequences of a difficult social crisis that has experienced our country, the deepest economic crisis of the past seventy years; and, in a very concrete way, here in Catalonia, this social fracture has been especially harsh with infants, with those people who together with the greatest are the most vulnerable. At the length of my intervention, seven minutes and a half, it will only allow me to pass, to make four brushes of those aspects that, under my point of view, under our point of view, can be more priority in this debate. I'll talk to you, tell you what we see in the aspect of child poverty, in the field of teaching, and also the problem with the unaccompanied minors. Unfortunately, today is the first Ple, or the second Ple, forced by opposition, we are talking about concrete problems and real problems that we Catalans have. We are very accustomed, Mr. Torra, to you and your government, so to speak of prisoners, to speak of processes, to speak of republic, to speak of '1 October, and even to speak of the monarchy, but in change, we do not speak of real problems. And what we're standing here today is a question that affects many people. And I disagree with some aspects that I've listened to this morning, which, in a concrete way, seems, therefore, to be something..., a part of the population depending on economic income. No, or yes, it obviously has a direct consequence. But I think the spectrum is much wider; it's an environment that affects..., that goes far beyond purely and exclusively economic issues. Because a person or family may be vulnerable, but this vulnerability may be compensated for by direct action by the Public Administration, the Competent Administration. And in this case we have known, and there have been many examples, that in questions as may be in the field of teaching or in the field, directly, of providing measures to help deal with the poor, the Government of Catalonia, the Government of Catalonia, has simply not been, has been absolutely absent, we have not been able to see it at the expense of the most vulnerable. According to data, for example, the 2017 Year Life Conditions Survey in Catalonia is at risk for 20_percent of the population, and in a much more concrete way for minors. I want them to put a real piece of my experience as Mayor of Badalona, and it is that today – today – there are children and children from here in Catalonia who the only bed they make is the bed they can" enjoy, that they can eat at school. It's the only thing they're doing all day long. And it seems to me that this aspect should remorse a little like the consciousness of those who are at the forefront of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. For a matter of time, I will not enter into data that will surely complete much more than I am telling you. In the field, for example, of teaching, an aspect which has not been addressed in the long run, and which for us, for the People's Party, is very important, and which has a direct relationship with what we are talking about today, is school absenteeism, especially, now, in the most vulnerable areas. There are areas of Catalonia, there are cities where, at public schools, the degree of absenteeism by students, by the most vulnerable students, is around 50_per_cent; they felt good: absenteeism around 50_per_cent of minors, children of twelve, thirteen or eleven years. This is traumatic, and this is a real problem that we should also, as I said, move our consciousness. He said to them, and it is true, that the Government of Catalonia at these times is totally absent from what collaborations are with vulnerable families or families that do not have a very high income, which he refers, for example, to helping schools in Bressol. If a few years ago this burden had to be borne by the Generalitat, the assembly or the family pairs, at these times the Generalitat is absent, and this part that the Generalitat of Catalonia was bringing must be covered in many cases between the deputies or the assemblies and the families. This is an aspect where we, from the People's Party, believe that it might be better to allocate the 20_million that you may be targeting areas that aren't as high-priority in Catalans' day-to-day lives, huh? , as may be themes of communication media or related to its objective of achieving the Catalan Republic. And maybe if we went into this detail they'd appreciate the vast majority of Catalans going through it badly. Or another question, which I also think has a certain relationship, are the conditions in which many children in Catalonia are studying. Thousands of children and children from Catalonia in these moments, about to enter the year 2019..., when we assume that Catalonia is a land that will take on many aspects, so, like the dic, thousands of children and children from Catalonia are studying in barracks. It seems to us that it is unacceptable, that we believe that it is entrepreneurship and that it is not suitable for a territory that presumes to be at the forefront of modernity and of serving together its citizens. I will also make a brief reference to which he refers to the unaccompanied minors. With the unaccompanied minors – here it has been said, and I agree – there is a problem, therefore, of the integration of these people. But I don't forget, there is one problem, which we cannot avoid, and it is that in many cases these minor unaccompanied, they don't have a good guardianship on the part of the Government of Catalonia, in many cases they end up causing problems of coexistence, insecurity or invisibility around them. And this is an aspect that can also be solved by the political leaders who are at the moment at the forefront of Catalonia. I'm telling you, I've pointed out some of the challenges that we believe the generality has to face in order to improve child protection, and we hope, therefore, that this debate will take place. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , with the least – I finish, Mr President – serving, with the least, I don't know if to take action, but to remorse consciences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.46.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then has the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.47.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President Torra, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, and the people who accompany us to the Chamber today, and from here also a greeting to all the entities working in the realm of our country's childhood. Mirin, Ciutadans' company, don't give us a monogram of childhood so we can talk about childhood. We need to debate, work and talk about children's rights in a general, broad and cross-cutting way, and that's what we do every day. Don't be mistaken, independence isn't about saving itself, it's about transforming everything, also the opportunities of childhood. That said, we consider ourselves to have childhood present in all policies, we need to have a cross-sectional view. Let's talk about childhood from almost every point of view and not just from those points that you have the most profitable output at the media level. Childhood is not always to be seen as a negative key, as I have the impression that many of the companies see it here today. Childhood is our present, but it is also our future. But we want to go further, we want to place our childhood in all spheres, as it depends a lot on our responsibility to work for a society with better access to education, with better health and better social protection. For this reason we consider it necessary to be able to speak of childhood and salvation. And as an advanced society, we must be able to make our childhood available to all those who can sail for a better salutation, all those who can serve for an early detection in order to have a better salutation for our society. So, prevention, it's the key element to move forward. In the same way that it is necessary to provide comprehensive support to families in cases of complex diseases. Childhood and education: In the field of education, for us it is necessary to have a full view of everything that involves education in all stages of childhood and adolescence. Childhood and Social Affairs and the Family: the social protection of our children like that of their families is one of our most firm commitments and work without you having to set us up a monogram. Related to everything I've put forward, we need to understand the childhood perspective as the compulsory nature and the disposition of the departments to include this childhood perspective in their policies. We think it is necessary to treat childhood from all axes. And related to everything I've exposed, I'd like to go into more detail about our proposals. We wanted to treat them with salvation when we spoke of salvation and childhood. Our will is to improve, it is an integral improvement in the salvation of our infants. In this sense we see it necessary to promote healthy habits among our infants at our school, in our nutrition, in the reading, in participation, in the practice of sport, in prevention and early detection for better attention. What are we talking about? That's to say, if we have better detection and prevention tools, no doubt, the results are much more positive. And continuing in the field of detection, we believe that it is necessary to be able to provide early care and comprehensive care for all children with disorders, the same way that the mental health of our children is already being worked with great care. But childhood is not only to be approached from a perspective of taking care of it, but also to seize it. That is why we are also presenting proposals on the importance of participation, a motivation with which we feel very committed: we need to design ways of participation, we need to encourage the participation of our children also in the classroom, which is also a constant and dynamic space of learning. Nor can we forget – nor can we forget – the importance of working on equality and gender stereotypes with our infants and adolescents. We want a society more aware of equality, and we can only do that if we start working in childhood. And this happens in any aspect, as it can be made aware so that students can access all types of occupational training that they like, not that they condition the term' genere. We're going through gender stereotypes, it can't be that only boys want to drive and girls want to do wigs. Education. In a democratic society his childhood must have access to a quality education, with an inclusive and non-secretive school. And we are with you, Mr. President Torra – inclusive and not secretive – where each and every one of our students must feel included in the education centre; where the student is left behind, especially our teenagers and young people who have not been able to overcome compulsory schooling, cannot stay back. We need to ensure that we have educational spaces that allow them to have new opportunities, help them to complete their goals and not get rid of the education system. In the educational framework we cannot forget that we are in the 21st century and digital tools are fundamental, but we need to make a good use of ICT. ICTs are the reality of our children and young people and we believe it is necessary to be able to promote the acquisition of digital skills of children. In the same way as encouraging a user responsible for a secure Internet, that there is neither bullying nor asset-building. In this line of ICT, if we want to have students with a good knowledge we also need to be able to equip them with all those professionals who work with our children to acquire and improve digital skills, to be able to have more tools and to detect possible risk behaviors. Finally, we would like to talk about our education professionals. To have critical infants, it is necessary to have teachers with the ability to generate class and non-teachers with, conditioned for their work, which can only follow the textbook. We must guarantee the freedom of the teacher in the classroom. From the point of view of Social Affairs, we wanted to put the emphasis on very concrete points, which have already been discussed this morning far from the other interventions: family reunification. We want to encourage and encourage the family gathering of infants. The recommendation that derives from the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Children reminds us that the best option for a child is family mating. And in this sense, we believe that we need to be able to foster and promote this welcome. Do not recognize that there is a part of our infants who suffer directly or indirectly from poor children would not be honest. But it is also true, and so do the entities that have come to compare with the Commission for Children, that the Generality invests in its conjunction just like the rest of European countries in matters of childhood. But we think we need to increase resources so that we can fight this poor child. For another band, we think that the basic social services of our municipalities are the ones that are closest to the citizenry, they are the first entry to the Administration, they are the ones that have the best coordination with other agents involved, in one case, where the child is the protagonist, they are the ones who know the family, the school dynamics, the social work of the ABS or the open centre. For all that I have explained, we believe it is necessary to be able to strengthen the basic teams through the programme contract, in order to contract the professional profiles that each territory needs according to its characteristics. And, with this, we mention that the EBAS plants of many municipalities cannot respond to the needs and problems of their infants, and it is necessary to be able to have this support through the contract program in order to be able to hire social educators, to be able to hire social integrators, to be able to contract job placement techniques of our young, intercultural mediators and all those professional profiles that help a good social inclusion of our infants. Young migrants alone, this morning's great recurring theme. As you know, one of the complex realities that the country sees is the arrival of the smallest without any familiar reference to our home, a reality that..., despite the complexity that it has, despite the few resources, both technical and economic, is responding to this reality, with the best possible patent. A week ago we gave the presentation to the Commission d'Infance of the Synod of Greuges..., the presentation of the report on the unaccompanied minors, and really what I did was a picture of how the situation was, but also make recommendations to us, and through these recommendations we wanted to work on our proposals. And we divided them into two different quarters: one, which would be passing responsibility..., or working together with local entities, political parties, communication media and the rest of agents and social institutions to promote a positive speech, not to stigmatize, not to use this subject of minors not accompanied as the electoral element. For another band, we believe it is necessary to focus on the responsibility of the Spanish State, so that Catalonia can facilitate the actual inclusion of these minors, as well as to be able to plan a good management. It can't be that we can't have real data on how many smaller ones will get to us when we already know they're in Andalusia and their goal is to get to Catalonia. It cannot be that we, even if we do not have the skills to process the residence permit, cannot ask the Spanish State to do its work and to transmit as soon as possible the asylum permits of these minors, the residence permit, the work permit for the seventeen-year-old. Because if we can't regularize their situation, that little one when he gets to be divided years will not be able to be contracted, because he won't even have the work permit to be part of the Catalan society. For this reason, we ask the Spanish State to respect me and what you do to this task as soon as possible, that of being able to facilitate the processing of documentation, because it is not the competence of Catalonia. Finally, we believe that we also need to have a resolution proposal that you put for family mediation as an alternative tool for conflict resolution. And that's a better thing not only for families, but also for the sake of the infant. In the same way that we would need better coordination between the departments involved in the management of sexual abuse complaints or any type of abuse. We need good coordination, and so he let us know more than one entity, in order to be able to work in an integral way all kinds of abuse, both sexual and the abuse that our infants can suffer. For lack of time I can not extend more, but to tell you that for us..., our intention is to be able to treat childhood from all axes: from the promotion of culture; from the vision of habitat, as you have commented, companion Marta Ribas, we are also concerned about our infants, in reference to habitat, because they have a decent habitat; also from the Interior, we also want our infants not to be stigmatized, especially the least not accompanied; from the sport; etcetera. Companies and companies, the object of all I've explained is to have a country that guarantees equal opportunities and children's rights, and that's all for all of us. We have a lot of work to do, but I think that with this debate, since we have accepted, since we are working on it, we should be generous at the time of looking at proposals and not thinking of a more partisan view and of a more individual cell and looking for the conjunction of the policies of our infants. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.48.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament, Imma Gallardo, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.49.0	Thank you very much, President. President Torra, advisors and advisers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, and guests who are with us today in this plenary, I have devoted a great deal of my life to serving people. For years, I've been a social educator, caring for children and young people who had internment measures. For whom you didn't know, I'm also a child educator, in Rialp, at Pallars Sobirá, one of the regions of the High Pyrenees. That's why I'm celebrating that today we're focusing on childhood, on a theme as delicate as protecting our infants and young people. I am pleased that we are making efforts to ensure that children are fully cared for, but I was concerned that the intent of this House does not have much to do with child protection and is seeking to make so much political demagogic a matter that is so far-reaching for our future, but also for our present. And I was right – here I agree with Congresswoman Ribas – but we continue with the debate. On many occasions, we adults forget to look at the infants to learn from them, and that, in my opinion, is a big mistake. Infants, innately, are joyful, have illusion, spontaneity, curiosity and an enormous ability to observe and learn, among many other qualities. And often the adults we get back those qualities thanks to them. Precisely why infants are important, because they are future but above all they are present. Today, the president said so in this very place. And even though at the beginning they are very small, and they need a lot of attention, they do not cease to be individuals with a unique personality, very marked, with their character and their preferences. They're constantly learning and evolving, if it doesn't do like adults. Even though we, the adults, too often forget that the path of life is a constant learning. That is why we ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that we deal with this subject with the respect you require, that we place the child at the top of our focus. Thinking that adults are over infants is a mistake, because the learnings they give us are as much or more valuable than what we can offer them. Because we often don't listen to them and we give it all to suppose – and now I also speak like the sea – when our job should be to give them the greatest range of possibilities and help them to learn to think, value and detract from different options. We just don't listen to them enough, but we just slap them in the mouth, with shivers or with digital pants. And I'm not saying that infants don't use new technologies; the digital revolution has come to stay, it's great and we have to take advantage of it. Nor do I say that we adults give up our obligations and responsibilities, years on the contrary, I just want to stress that we have to make the most of the offers. It can encourage much more the game with motion or contact with nature, and also virtual games. But we force them from very young to be many hours secure, quiet, when up to six years would have to prioritize and promote movement. Recent studies confirm the relationship between psychomotor development in the early stages and subsequent difficulties, both physical – such as, for example, problems of vision or decoordination – as psychological – little concentration or hyperactivity – and that is what we should be thinking about. Let us start using words like teamwork, "co-responsibility, "co-operation, "participation, in everything you make reference to full care for children. And, of course, if we set ourselves up as a place, we would change many things. Our duty as parliamentarians is to empathize with society's problems. Our responsibility as parliamentarians is to convert these ideals into practical applications. What I am proposing, ladies and gentlemen, is that we learn from the curious gaze of infants, that we reflect from empathy and respect for people and that we take care of the intangibles of our society, in this case, protecting children and young people from political demagogy. Why is it so important to move away from such a sensitive subject? Because investing in childhood is the best investment, and that's what James Heckman said, the Nobel Prize in Economics in the year 2000, in his study Schools, Enabled and Synapses, published in the year 2008. He concluded: "Children's education is an effective and effective investment for economic and labour development. The sooner the reversal, the greater the return on the reversal. The study shows that programs intended for the first few years have far higher benefits for the control of the environment, delinquency or integral development of the individual. They also mention it in an article by Eldiario. It is from March 2017, titled "Without childhood there is no future, researchers of the KSNET network, we reflect on how much everything that goes to childhood, especially during the first years, marks the person, per be or per evil. The problems that are not solved at this stage, the development opportunities that are missed, directly affect the future possibilities of these children and their families, and coincides with the Nobel Prize in Economics that eventually entail a great future cost for public archives. The statistical data give us the raw reality, and tell us where to focus in order to make the policies of integral attention to childhood more effective. That is why we need to reflect on our welfare status model. Over the past forty years, he has focused on the coverage of the needs of the great people, pensions, dependence, and salvation. But this welfare state has forgotten about childhood and support for families. From here the high child poverty, the high school failure, the high premature abandonment of the education system, the high rate of maturity, the very late age of young people's emancipation, the delay in motherhood or a very low fertility rate. What was I supposed to do, then? First of all, we need to deploy more and better care policies for infants and their families. But we have a lot more resources, and here I can't help but talk about the fiscal deficit, because 9 or 16,000 more, the millions that go to Madrid... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, ladies and gentlemen, one of the blames is the Government of the Spanish State; there's a lot of money we generate in Catalonia and they don't come back. If we could have all the confidence that we would invest in important country issues, such as childhood. That's why, every time we're more of those who defend a model of republic, not against no one but in favor of all those who generate these resources to make a better country. Secondly, as reflected in the Plan of Government, we must prioritize investment in policies that guarantee the rights of infants and adolescents. Catalonia is already very, very busy, and often very well done. Both the Government, as the different entities, such as UNICEF, Save the Children, Caritas or Red Cree, to mention some, or the very Synod of Greuges and its attached, as well as the professionals working with children and young people, do good work, but we agree that it is necessary to continue to improve, and to improve it it will continue to deploy the Pla de Govern and develop Law 14/2010, of rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence, as well as to evaluate public policies in the field of childhood, or to reduce the detection of child abuse and make awareness campaigns, or regulate children's spaces from the zero years to the age of compulsory schooling through the million. Fix yourself, self-criticism, things can do better, always, but we are demanding: more and better public policies. And, therefore, the band of more resources, we also seek more dialogue, wider consensus, but without so much spectacle, without so much sound, as we tend to work on the different commissions: with discretion but with determination. It leaves them with some of the initiatives recently approved by Parliament that are already committed by the Government; such as doubling direct investment in childhood policies in the presupposition 2019 to progressively bring us closer to the European average expenditure. Or fight the poor and the social and child exclusion with an integral strategy, with presuppositional and follow-up indicators. Or increase resources to child and youth mental health centres, or to the social emergency housing park. And, yes, to develop a child development plan focused on the first childhood that I work in coordination between the departments. Or working in a network to promote coordinated measures in schools in Bressol, family spaces, educational centers... As you see, there is no lack of ambition, neither this Parliament nor the Government of Catalonia. That's why we don't just hear the recast of the debate you're presenting today, ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans. Thankfully, we haven't listened to any concrete proposals, because child protection needs to be a big concern for everyone. In 2015, Save the Children illustrated the differences between autonomous communities in their report Illuminating the future: investing in education is fighting child poverty. Do you know who the six autonomous communities and cities are with higher child poverty taxes? Ceuta; Andalusia, with PSOE and Ciutadans al Governo until recently; Castella - la Manxa, now PSOE but before PP; Murcia, now with PP and Ciutadans al Governo; Extremadura, with PSOE, and Canàries. I suppose the communities in which they govern also do a lot to protect childhood, huh? I will tell you more: according to the index of educational equity, which analyses fourteen factors related to the quality of access to education, in the school environment and in the participation of children in cultural and oci activities outside the school, only the Basque Country has very high values of educational equity. Madrid, Catalunya, Navarre and Aragó present high values, and it remains low or very low values. That's funny! Do you have to watch the economic concert? This report highlights the relationship between the poor child and the lack of fairness of educational policies: when the learning opportunities of a child in a situation of social exclusion are limited, their chances of getting out of this situation are minimized. Therefore, demagogic, the just. I stop demagogicating and I think we're asking what are the real problems to propose real solutions and with a better and necessary territorial balance. To finish my intervention, let me recall an african proverb: "To educate a child, I call a whole village. It is true that the greatest responsibility lies with the father and mother, the family in general. Obviously, they can't delegate their responsibility to other agents. That's why we have to give more support to the families, to take them over, said Najat, to accompany them at this stage. But we also want to recognize the task of teachers and teachers, educators and monitors of fooders, or sports activities, or health personnel, or those who work from the social sphere. That's why it's so important to have permanent training and retraining of the different collections, but it's also worth their work, and that happens, necessarily, to improve working conditions. And no, I can't make a comment: we don't have to reverse anything, certainly improve – surely – but the model of the Catalan school is a model of success. Our infants speak two and three languages. [[remorse of the voice]] And often with better results...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.50.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.51.0	...in Spanish language.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.52.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.53.0	But, as I said, we are committed to these professionals and we guarantee that we will give the intangible value they bring to society. Because working with children and young people involves a very vocational component and it is a difficult task, which is more complicated in the world in which we live; a world in which we can connect at the moment with any other point on the planet, but a world in which we are no longer looking at each other and saying "good morning to the person we have right before us." Welcome the proposals and work there. I agree that it is possible to reach consensus measures that talk about the care of unaccompanied minors, but also of minors who have entered residential centres where family reunification would help them very much. What I'm talking about is not sexist games. Or how to help families with infants who suffer from minority diseases, such as papallone's skin. Or how to prevent and act before bullying, cyber-assetting, mistreatment or additions, to put some examples. From Junts to Catalonia, this is our contribution: to reflect from respect and empathy, to listen to the people who bring this intangible value to society and to provide them with the tools to make their work better. It is time that we begin to treat infants as people so that our children grow up and incorporate those values, those knowledge and experiences – and that I will never tire of repeating it – that they can become more civic and more educated citizens, healthier, more supportive and fairer, more informed and more cults, more empathetic and freer, in short, better people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.54.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. So far the interventions of the positions of the parliamentary groups. Before suspending the session, I would like to comment that there has been a request for alteration of the order of the day of this session, in concrete terms with regard to the motions. It is demanded that point 18, which is a motion presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, may be substantiated in the place of the motion to which point 12 of the order of the day refers, which is a motion presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The two groups agree with this change, if there is no inconvenience on the part of the plenary, we can make this change. Yeah? In such a way that it would remain in the following way: this late we will substantiate the motions envisaged in the order of the day, concretely points 9, 10, 11 and, after the change, 18, and tomorrow late points 17 and 12. Okay? All right, then, let's suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.55.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. Next, it is the return, again, of the President of the Generality, to respond to the interventions of the parliamentary groups. When you're ready, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.56.0	Too late for everyone. Let's start this turn of replicas. I'll make a general reply to all groups. I also invite the Councillor of Education and the Councillor of Afers Socials, if they also want to add 'there, then, to finish making some points too. I will therefore begin with the Ciutadans Group. Mrs. Arrimadas, the truth is I wouldn't want to break it, would I? And let's get out of this session without me talking about independence, since you've been doing it all the time. And, therefore, allow me, therefore, to explain very briefly that we want independence precisely, among other things, so that we can have a better health, so that we can have a better education, to have some better social benefits, to have some better scholarships for our children, to have some better pensions for our great ones; for all this we want independence. And that, therefore, logically, the fiscal deficit that this country suffers ended up turning into an unbearable social deficit, and that, as Muriel Casals said, to have a welfare state to have a state. And here we are – and here we are. Therefore, the infra-financing, the chronic infra-financing suffered by the Government of Catalonia, in which it does not know how we would like to see some time their group lying at our side, is really not a rock on the Sabbath, but an authentic rock on the Sabbath. I shall begin to comment on some concrete issues. For example, sanitation and waiting lists. In the beginning of the year, we will present a law of accessibility to improve the management of the waiting lists. Therefore, I hope that we have the opportunity to discuss this decree with all depth. I would also like to talk about the territorial differences that you have pointed out, because it seems to me that it is a topic that could create a certain alarm for the country, so to ensure that all children in Catalonia – all of them – have pediatric attention in their center, that is because they are directly attached to a pediatrician or to a family doctor specialising in pediatrics, eh? The point, obviously, is that each center has a pediatrician, but it seems to me that it is very important to send this message to the population. As it is said, between the year 2016 and 2018 there has been an 80_per_cent increase in the presupposition in the child mental health network in the country. Or, for example, today's news – I think we should all be happy, vote on what we vote on –: the two centres authorized to carry out pediatric transplants to Catalonia, the Children's Hospital of the Valley of Hebron and the Hospital of Sant Joan de Deu, have achieved a record of pediatric transplants. One third of the children in the Spanish State will have been transplanted into one of the two Catalan centers authorized to perform these pediatric transplants. Therefore, we are not only giving service to our infants, but also – and we rejoice – we can help other infants from the rest of the State. All right. The Socialist Party... deputy, how's it going? You were talking about a lack of political will, that we didn't meet with the jails, etc. I would also like to remind you that it was a particularly complicated year, in which during six months on this country there was an article that completely paralyzed the action of government, huh? An article, Article 155, which you voted on and which, therefore, has helped many of the Puigdemont government's initiatives that were on the march, therefore, it is not possible to step down and it is not possible to pull forward. And it cost us, to get back on the machine; it cost us a lot. Let's hope we don't have to cost more – let's hope we don't have to cost more. And we're still curios, we're all curios, huh? , also those who prepare your speeches or your notes. Miri, there is this report, Measuring budget investment in children. Methodological proposal and first results in Spain, a UNICEF working document of March 2018, which on page 32 says the following: "If we add up both expenditure on children, direct and tax, the figure amounts to something more than 10,000_million, which is 23.5_per_cent of the total expenditure made by the Catalan Government, 4.63_per_cent of GDP, which are exactly the words I said in my speech. So, we're all curious, if that's what it looks like. I am very pleased with the hundreds of proposals you have put forward, and I congratulate you. What I don't know is whether they've also made the effort to quantify the reversal that these hundred proposals would entail; then I'd appreciate it..., if I can quantify it. In any case, I imagine that one of the measures that you assume will try to get your PSOE partners to go to the Madrid Congress is, for example, to reduce the tax deficit. Just by reducing the tax deficit, we can implement its hundred proposals in Catalonia. To the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, I like to use the words 'efficiency and courage', I totally agree. On the subject of planning, I would have liked today to have congratulated Afers Socials on the management of the MENA. I think that an action like this country has had to approach this estuary, in which it has multiplied by deity – by deity, absolutely implacable – the unaccompanied minors that this country has joined, and that it has done so in the most dignified way, in the most dignified way it has done..., honestly I think that it is a gesture of pride of country. And I would have expected from all groups – as well as from yours – a congratulations to the Councillor of Social Afers. In any case, if I have moved it. But, I insist, I like to talk about efficiency, courage, planning, certainly, when something is planable. This, for example, now that we know what's happened to us these two years, it would really be unwarranted that we're going back to the estuary that you see and, therefore, we have to plan for it. I totally agree, don't I? But I'd also like to tell him to find, of course, coincidence paths. For example, on the subject of sexual abuse, we in Tarragona are starting a pilot test that goes into the logic of what you were commenting on from the House of the Nens, huh? He's working on it. Let's hope that when we have implemented it and with the first results of this pilot test, we have a chance to talk more about it. A job, by the way, coordinated for the Departments of Interior, Justice and Education. The People's Party, which said we don't talk about real problems... well, that's one way to say it. I think we're not talking about it, we're solving it, the real problems. In fact, our government is dedicated to this, to solving real problems, and problems that come from very old, for example, with the waves of doctors and workers. We are told that to two themes, two historical themes, which were in the middle of our path, we could give them a way out, and a fair way out, a legitimate way out. For example, implementing the National Pact for Persons with Disabilities; for example, with the management of MENAs; for example, agreeing with the Urbanisme Commission to give up 30_percent of the habitats that will be built in Barcelona as official protection habitats; for example, unhindering the theme of the Barcelona Fira; for example, managing 390_millions of the common agricultural policy; for example, presenting a bill for equal treatment and non-discrimination; for example, one of the first measures taken by the Government: devoting 250_millions of the ICF to social habitats; or contracting more than a thousand_cent of us specialists in mental health. All these are actions of the Government of Catalonia. All these are actions that solve the problems of the citizens of Catalonia. To the CUP: certainly, it's all based on this equality of opportunities that we want. The government repeats this one time and another: we put people in the center of our policies. And we understand that precisely the struggle for social and national and civil rights... is this struggle, which will bring us to the republic. It is not the Republic, which will bring us civil, social and national rights, but this struggle for these rights, which will bring us, this equality of opportunity. I must remind you once again that the Puigdemont Government presented the most social assumptions that had ever been presented to the Catalonian Government, and that we too are presenting and discussing with all groups again the assumptions with the most social reversal of all the history of the country: it will grow a 9_per_cent in investment in the areas of work, education and social matters, and we will reach a level of pre-crisis social spending, which we place in 2010. We will be in the year 2010 if these assumptions are adopted. And I invite you again, too, to discuss these assumptions, because they are assumptions that interest all the citizens of Catalonia. And finally, to the groups that support the Government, the Republican Group and Juntes for Catalonia, the thanks that have spoken of equality, inclusiveness, cohesion. Certainly, it is the words that guide government action on the whole issue of childhood policy and, in general, on the whole issue of social policies, with which they know that this government is absolutely compromised. Thank you very much. I would give the word, therefore, to the councillor of Afers Socials. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.57.0	Thank you, President. After the intervention of the president, the words of the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.58.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, Mirin, I thought I would start this reply by talking about a little bit about the structure of policies and the axes of the government, and how they have an interrelationship with childhood. A cohesive country with rights and opportunities for everyone, also for childhood. A bright economy, responsible for the sustainable. Our production model, the priority of public spending, the price of housing or the world of work influence the well-being of infants. A democraticly free and fair society with shared governance. Only with the involvement of children and children can we make this society fairer by sharing present and future, but we must never forget the present. And a Catalonia open to the world, and that too is very clear, because the compromise with childhood is here, but also with all the children and adolescents of the world. Childhood is plural and diverse, and must be respected and treated without discrimination or because of origin, sex, gender, religious orientation or abilities. I could have started here and started here, but I am also aware that there has been a part of the debate that we have had, a part of the debate that has been raised by the group proposing this extraordinary plenary, which has focused on a double logic, that it is to place us in a situation of absolute emergence, crisis, and to link this situation with, shared or not, our will around the political model that this country must govern. And all this did it by giving data, but without contextualizing them. And, of course, by reviewing, making comparisons, reviewing and saying: "the poor child, and you see that in the last comparative data we have fifteen territories in the State above, and that is not a reason not to have reptes. But, of course, with this logic they're planting, you say: "Well, they're all about a process of creating a republic and we'll have 155 to infinity, because that's the answer you always give to our performance. If we were talking about infant mortality, I wouldn't even explain it to them; we would talk directly about the law of citizen security. He doesn't feel very much. You always link any deficit around the policies of this country with our political project. You're a practical lesson in the book. Don't think of a Lakoff elephant, and you do it every time. It's a practical lesson, and I don't want to be saying it – I don't want to be saying it – because in the end, when they locate the diagnostics of childhood policies in this country, what they do is close their relationship, more than the data, with comparatives, don't hold up. And that's important that we remember, because, if not, we'll make that mistake that Lakoff always told us that we don't have to do, that's thinking about an elephant. He was thinking of an elephant of a color; I'm thinking of a taron elephant here, but we don't have to think. And I wanted to situate this element, because, if not, then we won't hear the whole logic of the debate, we won't hear it. Even the same president has had to show the UNICEF report on which the data was based, which we can say is... UNICEF is putting another perspective, a perspective that will certainly, in comparison, raise other differences, but a perspective in which we believe, that is the transversality of childhood and adolescence policies: to hear that they go beyond protection systems and to hear that preventive policies are essential at the time of establishing a good system that provides equal opportunities for children in our country. And that's why I don't want to take away one of the elements that Members and Members have introduced, such as the need for reflection. I placed it here in Parliament, in the committee, and we have been working during this late: the need to do a reflection and construction process to review and reform what is needed of the protection system. So long, we don't have a problem. I explained it to the committee and we've been doing this job. Now, also close to saying that we have a system that is guaranteed and that is of quality, but that needs to be adapted to the challenges we have and that we need to be able to respond to these challenges. We need to innovate, we need to speed things up, we need to make our own children and young people even more involved. We need to incorporate a critical and constructive look at the empowerment of families being central and actually directing the protection system towards essential objectives: the integrity of processes and services, the highest quality, ownership, ethics and professionalism, and the minimum institutionalization. And it's all about these elements that we're working on. And I take advantage here... because Mr. Vidal Aragonese placed one of the elements on which we have been reflecting, which are the processes of removal from custody. And we are aware that the way to introduce more guarantees, compatible with the perspective of children's rights, which is what must be at the centre – and when a decision is taken to withdraw custody is very complex, but they are at the centre, children's rights – it also needs to be surrounded by an ethical reflection and the committee of guardians. Now, in the current system, it was decided by a professional or a professional – prepared, prepared – who consults, but the last decision was made by him or her. We propose that the decision be passed on to a collegiate organ to analyze from different points of view, multidisciplinary – educators, psychologists, lawyers – who are the best alternatives, so that we will generate more guarantees, and we will also do the professionals a favor: we will bring them a very high level of pressure. Because, apart from this professional, this professional, he has to continue working with the family, and that makes it even harder. And I could explain to you many policies that we do; some examples of empowerment, which are more collateral, but which are important and which show the political line in which we work. And a very concrete example is that we have five thousand children and young people in our country who participate in student cooperatives, with whom they approach this vision of a social and cooperative economy, critical, that empowers them at the time of setting up the model of society in which they live, that empowers them in the future in order to be able to set all the goals that we have in this area. It is a very concrete example, and I could go into many, many examples, but I will focus on one of the aspects that you have identified and that concerns them: the programs for diversity. I want to talk about policies and direct programs for adolescents with disabilities. There are 8,400 children and adolescents who benefit from home care, day care, and residential services that receive benefits and services from the dependency portfolio. In 2017, there were more than a thousand beneficiaries of social assistance to persons with disabilities. This benefit is intended to contribute to the expenses incurred in acquiring products and activities designed to promote the personal autonomy of persons with physical, psychological or sensory disabilities. Programs such as SIOAS and Marmi, which cater to persons with minor disabilities of divorcing years, and this last, the Marmi, look for insertion in the ordinary business, or the combination of insertion programs and subsidies in the special work centers, which also gives response to those teenagers between seven and seven years... And we are aware that it is an environment with many challenges, ensuring equal opportunities is key, and we will continue to work on it, especially in ensuring inclusion in the ordinary business, because this is the way. I could also talk about employment policies for young people between the ages of seven and divided, and we could talk about it, but I'll focus on one, because it has a double perspective, because it's also an example of some of the elements that you have criticized along their lines, which is the lack of coordination. I will focus on one: the centres of nine opportunities, a job that we do together with the Department of Education, that the fem to generate opportunities for these young people of seven years, said, that with the ordinary system of education we have not been able to give them an answer. Last year more than seven thousand young people participated in these programs, and from which 80 per cent, when they finished, they entered labor, and, from these that were inserted, a 20 per cent have returned to the system of regulated education. It is a good example of how, working hand in hand from various areas of the Administration, working hand in hand to make policies more flexible and adapt them, can give answers to these adolescents. And it's also a field we're working on, and we're working around teenagers and young migrants alone. Why, I'll explain, we'll have nine hundred places in these nine-opportunities centers for these teenagers and young people, but do they want to know how we should register them? Do you want to know? We have to sign them up with the number of the health card. Do you think it's reasonable that they should be registered with the health card number? And do you know why we need to sign them up with the health card number? Because its administrative regularization triga new_months, midjana. Do you think that a seven-year-old girl or a seven-year-old girl, with a double vulnerability, the vulnerability of being underage and the vulnerability of having had a single migratory path, without being accompanied...? Do we have to cheat new months on regularizing their administrative situation, one of the aspects that can generate the most vulnerability? Since June I've been talking to the state government to deal with this situation, and I'm still waiting for an answer. It's all right, each one is organized as it pleases. Some of us have created the secretary, others have created other figures, but what she feels is giving an answer to this, is not generating more vulnerability, is not exclouring. Mitjana new_months in the best of cases. Ah! Doesn't that generate vulnerability, being in a situation of administrative irregularity? Mirin, the health net, with this complicated way of government, that has no way of coordinating... So, with Greetings, that's who does this job, from Work and Social Afers and from Education, because Education also has to do it with others – already will Councilman Bargalló –, we find this solution. Here we can talk about making a mess; now, we won't go in there. And it's as easy as solving it. Since June, huh? Then they tell us not to talk. Since the month of June we have placed this need, and we are still waiting for an answer. Well, if that's not generating more vulnerability, let someone down and explain it to me. But we could talk about a lot of other things. We could talk about the paper you have to have and that you have the inspection around those young people who are working, between seven and seven years old. And I'm also talking to them about work policies, because they're also essential. And I could also talk to them about family policies that promote the quality of children's lives. We could talk about guaranteed rent. It can be said that we are always so critical, but, mirin, guaranteed income has assumed that a family with a smaller step to collect three hundred euros per month. Guaranteed income has assumed that a family with two lower steps to collect 411_euros/month. Guaranteed income has assumed that a family with three smaller steps to collect 486_euros/month. And we can say, "Yes, but it's not happening, it's not coming to everyone who needs it. They know that we're working, and they know that we've opened up this possibility and that it's viewing itself, and that of the 4_per_cent that I found when I got here as a counselor we're already over 20_per_cent of acceptances. I think it shows how we work on a day-to-day basis. And the best thing to show is that we've gone over 57 million that we've spent on families with smaller families with minimum income of insertion to, these heights, 83 million. Well, I think we also need to visualize how it affects, and that affects 27,166 infants and adolescents; it's not bad. We could also talk about experiences such as the SOAF, the Orientation Service and Family Support; also in what way we integrate and generate a public care network for infants throughout the country with a preventive will, with a willingness to work with families, because the best policies are preventive, not palliative. Palliatives are necessary, but preventives are the key, and we can talk about them. You, all of you, have also been talking about the role and centrality of social services, but the reminder that, with all the criticism that you can make, with all the recognition that we have to make at the local level, because the basic social services have been the gateway to the city and the most vulnerable citizens of this country during the crisis, we would finish the program contract and have invested almost 100_million more euros than we had planned, than we had committed; 100_million more euros. That this program contract for which it will serve is because there are, at the end of 2019, 850 professionals in these basic social services, that this program contract has served because the EAIAs have a hundred more professionals than they had. And you can say, are there any reptes? So much. What else do we want? So much. But of the government's compromise, and especially of the compromise that we have to do more with the locals and in the area of social services, if I may... I think it's unfair – it's unfair – you can criticize, but I think it's unfair to donate because there's no kind of compromise on the part of the government. We could talk about many other things, because the president has placed it. Support actions for families with transport; this is also a policy for children. Mirin, I would also like to focus on another aspect that I think is key and that has not come out very well, but I would like to place it: the actions and support of women who suffer male violence and what it means for their children, such as 2018 were supposed to be 10_million euros and this 2019 we expect an increase of almost 3_million euros for these programs, which end up acting on children and adolescents who are experiencing a difficult situation of vulnerability: that their mother has suffered male violence. I think we could look at many aspects of the best we've ever done, and also of the reptes, and so much. That's why I also wanted to place the rep in protection. All of them have also placed another repte – another repte – and I share the expression that both the Vice-President Vidal Aragonese and the Deputy Marta Ribas have placed: it is not a "low-fly" political environment, it is an area where we cannot hold adolescents and young people accountable, it is an area where we need a joint work of all, and it is the challenge of young and young migrants alone. And here I want to make an answer too. Look, we can criticize and assume any criticism around management, but the emergence, in its sense, is complicated to plan, cannot plan. And we're not an island– we're not an island–; we're looking at other territories of the State, mirin France, mirin Sweden, mirin Italy, mirin Greece. If we do an exercise and review it, we will see that there is a European repte. And then we can be very critical, but the ability to generate more than 2,500 places in the middle of the year is barbarity. Why? Why is this barbarity? Because above all we have made it clear that the protection system will not differ by origin. Above all, we have made this clear. And, likewise, even though you can be critical, we plan; and as long as we plan. And the 25th generation will have the visualization of this planning. I'm telling you: the 25th generation – there will be all the invited groups, just missing – will present the Catalan strategy for the gathering and inclusion, a strategy that has been done and working. Because they have also found that we did not do concertation, that we did not have a social dialogue; therefore, Lords, let us wear tables working day by day, and some of you also know it. I'm surprised who said so, because you have representatives in these work groups. We carry months working with working groups, with municipal associations, with professional colleges, with colleges of educators, with colleges of workers– of educators and workers–, with unions, with entities of childhood, with whom we must work together, designing and having a triple perspective, because we must have this triple perspective. One, as we give response to the emergence, as we are able to continue giving response to any infant the adolescent who comes up to our country, as we ensure the gathering. But, second, even more important – and some of you have placed it –: as we ensure your emancipation, as we ensure that when they come out of the system they are not vulnerable, they are not shut out. And, if I may, I am very grateful – I am very grateful – that some, criticizing us that we forget about them when they are divided years..., and in the governments that have been supporting the State..., these governments have the benefit of post-guardians. There are only two territories that have a benefit for a person who has been protected. Do you know who they are? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Catalonia and the Basque Country. They are the only territories that have this service, that are aware that a solution is to be sought for when they come out of the system, so they are not vulnerable. And this is also another element. And it's an element that we're very concerned about, because, if not, we're not doing our job well. If we're so close to collapsing, but then we're not so close that when they come out of the system, they're not vulnerable, we have a background problem, and this is centrality. And we've also been working together with these agents. I can be critical. I'm sure... I already accept that we sometimes do a very quiet job, a lot out of the rooms, but this job has to be done this way, it has to be done this way, with working groups working effectively, working day by day. And on the 25th generation we'll have the joint work done. And also working with a long look: the one who gave them, checking them out, and I put them in place, we carry all this late making us. And we want to work hand to hand with you. I told the committee, and we'll keep doing it, because this whole whole protection system review job, we need to get on with it. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd just miss it, I'll defend the professionals and the protection system, because they've done a brutal job. Because you – and it's normal – are not aware of how in July, August, September, October, all professionals have made a brutal effort, and have thought about the welfare of these teenagers and young people who arrive. Because this is not a repte of this government; not, sir, this is not a repte of this government; it is a repte of country, much more beyond the government. The government, in the end... Mirin, a country can live with different governments, but a society needs those trunk elements that explain its model, and this is a great challenge for everyone and everyone. And I'll keep working on it. And we look for formulas, and so much, and we innovate. Now we've got a few in foster care. Now, I'll explain it to them: it's that the family collide is not a direct solution, it's that the profiles are a little more complex, it's that the profiles certainly make the family collide and the collide complex, but we're working on it. Just like we're working mentors, just like we're looking for any environment in which we can take over this person. And to place them: the family gathering, for these young people and for any child, for us is central, and will continue to feel central. They also talked about the LDOIA deployment. Look, it's not fully deployed, just like it's partly deployed. And yes, I'm aware that there's this slope. Now, I'm also telling you, it's deployed in a lot of parts. To begin with, the last point that was deployed was the modification of the observer's decree. The credit program was also deployed. And we have other aspects to unfold, and we'll continue to deploy them. The president spoke of the entire unit of sexual abuse. I think you've set it up, and I think we're aware of it. We're generating this pilot program. And for us it's central – it's central. Why? She explained it very well to Mrs. Ribas. He explained it very well: here the key element is to avoid the police-hospital-jutjat-DGAIA circuit, which is a circuit that is vulnerable, and it is in this, in which we are working, to avoid this circuit. It is to use the European model of Barnahus, an integral space where the victim is reached from the first revelation until the treatment of psychological support is completed; it is to reduce assessments and interviews, improve and guarantee the expert, achieve full coordination between the different departments, ensure attention and recovery of victims, generate specialized knowledge. It's this, the repte, and as long as we have it entomized. And we did the pilot test in Tarragona. And we hope that it will be a success so that we can deploy it, because we are no longer talking about vulnerability, of two; it is that there are many vulnerabilities. So much. It's from those things that any citizen removes his stomach, and it's important to work it out. Look, we could talk about a lot of things. I don't want to leave..., they have been placing various aspects around planning – which I have already returned –, around guaranteed income, around autonomous life and emancipation – Mr. Vidal Aragonese –, around the guide... Yes, situating that the family performance guide is up to date in August. And if you want, I'll send you the link, there's no problem. Of the times we have, of how we generate and also work in concert, of how... And that's another aspect that I didn't want to leave, you see? , is important: communication and coordination with local authorities. Either we do it with the locals or we won't get out of it. Now, if I may, the emergence is at the moment. If I may, are you aware that we do not know every day how many teenagers and minors can reach this country? I suppose you are aware that we do not have mountain equipment, and that we are creating equipment. I suppose you're aware that the equipment will have to be in some city or village. And as long as we communicate, we have an internal communication protocol. Now, if I may, if what they want is communication two weeks ago, then I don't know what we're gonna do with the underage for these two weeks. It's the difficulty of managing it. And that's part of our responsibility, and we get out of it. But I guarantee it: there was some time when the protocol didn't work, I'm telling you. I have localized the three cases during this study, where the protocol didn't work. I've got locations, three cases. Now, opening one equipment per week, I can assure you that in many cases it has worked. And, to close, self-criticism, but, if I may, I want to socialize this self-criticism to all – I take that risk. And I want to close with a paragraph from The Little Prince, who socializes a point of self-criticism of the type of debate that we have had. And the next one says: "The great people are pleased with the ciphers. When you talk to them about a new friend, they never ask you for the essentials. Don't ever say, "What's your voice like?" Which games do you prefer? Do you collect? They ask you, "How old are you?" How many Germans are there? How much does it weigh? How much does your father earn? Then they think they know him. If you tell the big people: I've seen a very nice house of pink rays, with geranis in the windows and columns in the roof, you can't imagine the house. You have to tell them: I've seen a house of one hundred thousand francs. Ales then exclaim: How nice! So, part of our speech was this. And I think we should all think about that thought they're doing to The Little Prince. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now, the education counselor. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.60.0	Thank you, President; to close the government's reply. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Deputies, Centrality of Policies for Children and Adolescents of the Government is led by the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, but it is clear that these policies are cross-cutting policies and that there is much to see the actions and responsibility of the Department of Education and the Department of Health, in the name of which – of the two departments – I will do some of the answers to their proposals, their requirements or their comments. This morning the President of the Generalitat said that the struggle against segregation was the pal of the government's educational policies in this legislature. Certainly, the struggle against segregation, which has and will have several steps in the way, which is long, and one of the first will be the signature of the pact against segregation, which has promoted the syndicate and which is predicted for the beginnings of the month of generation. The Government, the Department of Education, has joined the work for the pact a time ago, and its contribution is twofold: first, to provide it with temporary commitments of actions and presupposed commitments of action, and, second, to participate in the signature, and, therefore, to assume its general compliment on what the department has brought and what the pact means. We'll have, I suppose, enough time to talk to him from the moment the syndic, therefore, the present and in summon his signature and the department assume him and can express him in that which touches him. Of the questions that you have not made, there is in the first place, for example, zero-three education. Obviously, we haven't talked much. My first intervention as this government's advisor was already, in the plenary, about zero-three. And it's been repeated... and we understand it perfectly, because it's a concern of everyone. It's true that the government stopped collaborating in the financing of municipal children's homes. That's what everybody knows. It is not certain that during these years he has devoted zero_euros to zero-three, because we often forget on the one hand that it exists, that it is small, but that it exists, that it is forty-two llars of children of the same department, that the support department, that it pays the subs and that it supports the maintenance. And, therefore, these forty-two children have remained in time, have not been locked up. And, therefore, this has been a contribution from the department, I insist, little one, but it's often forgotten. For what it does to the contribution of the department to the important, basic, foundational, public children's homes, which are the municipalities, it is certain that the department has failed to provide its funding. And it is also true that we have undertaken that, from the assumptions of 2019, the department will re-engage in its financing, and it will do so progressively, and it will do so from an agreement that we are still working with the Association of Municipalities and the Federation of Municipalities. And that's what we said, we repeated. The President of the General Council reiterated this and yesterday the Vice-President and Councillor of the Economy again explained it: there is a minimum of 20_million euros already foreseen in the current draft of the assumptions for this return from the department to the financing of the lars of children of municipal title. The second important element of the anti-segregation pact is the application of the inclusive school decree, which is one year old and is certain that it has not yet been implemented. And it didn't apply for two reasons that are obvious: first, because of the absence of a government that applied it until June 1, and, second, because of the presuppositional prorogation, because it is a decree that, for its application, asked for new presuppositions, that when it was presented it is expected to exist and that it did not exist. And it's a decree that will begin to unfold with the assumptions of 2019 as well. And it will begin to unfold with a different amount of action. There are, at these times, 9,500 students with specific educational needs – 9,500. All of these 9,500 require the application of the decree. All of these 9,500 need more human and material resources to be thoroughly addressed. They are very different specific educational needs; therefore, they are very different resources. In general, you haven't mentioned two: children and autistic children on a mealtime. I have already said this, and this has been repeated by the City Group, and every time I have repeated it I have given them the reason: that in the space of eating autistic students have a specific monitoring, it is obvious. Even so, I've told them that monitoring of the fooder's space is often more important than monitoring of the classroom; that of the classroom is important, but that of the fooder's space, for what it does to this student's socialization, which is one of his educational elements, is very important. We're committing ourselves to our assumptions. For what he does to students with deafness, who also repeat it, we have in Catalonia about two thousand students with deafness. From these, a couple of hundred... their families have asked for bilingual teaching in sign language; and from a few thousand - eight hundred, their families have asked for teaching in orality. Orality also has costs for the education service, which we do not assume in its totality and which we have to assume with the application of inclusive school. The signism has some costs for the education system, which we do not assume in its totality and which we will have to assume with the application of inclusive school. When you say a quantity, that is the quantity for one part of these 9,500 students, for two hundred of these 9,500 students. And, besides, it's a small amount, because one of the problems we have, for example, with deaf students is territoriality. In Lleida and Tarragona there is no centre prepared to bring together deaf students with a specific treatment as it is in Barcelona, and this is one of the actions we need to do, because territoriality is important at the time of taking on the rights. So, are the deaf children's families right that they don't have all the service they should have? Yeah. How right are the families of the other 9,300 dictated students with some special educational need. And the government's commitment is that with our assumptions they will begin to meet their demands. That two entities of parents and mothers of deaf students with a will to signify bilingual teaching have gone to court to claim...? They have their right to do so. As they have the right to do all other associations of mothers and fathers; they have their right to do so. What have there been associations that haven't been there? He's right, too. That we are negotiating with some of the immediate application associations of elements that are not of great presupposition? We're doing it. And we are doing it this same week, for example, with the request of groups of couples and seas to find another centre in Barcelona different from the current one for this treatment. We're doing it, and we're doing it. But, I insist, without presupposition, these 9,500 students with dictàmens will not hold the attention that the inclusive school decree asks and that the needy ask. All you have to see with cyberassembly, secure internet, understanding of information 2.0, is, say, the rapes in the centers, the various rapes. I've announced it and we'll compromise again: we'll present a plan for free rape centers, of all kinds of rapes – of all kinds of rapes. And where they point to us today, of two rapes, which are different in their treatment, in their prevention and, when they fall, in their repression– and, when they fall, in their repression–, which are the rape of the major against the minor and the rape of the minor against the minor, which are two different states of violence, and the two can be given and in the two we must act. We have protocols, but we have to reunify them. We have to take a step forward, we have to have nine looks, we have to be more distressed, we have to be even more courageous and we have to be, when it comes down, more repressive – when it comes down, more repressive – internally and collaborating with the police and judicial authorities when the nature of the facts calls for it. We're already doing it, but I need to be a lot more proactive. And we want to be and we want to be. The Councillor for Labour, Social and Family Affairs, told me, and I want to reiterate: the centres of new opportunities, which are diverse in the current situation in the country, which served seven thousand young people and young people, are centres with which we work together the Department of Labour, Social and Family Affairs and the Department of Education. In some cases they are from the SOC, in some cases they are from vocational training centres, in some cases they are from joints with our collaboration, in some cases they are from foundations; it is the same, because this model of collaboration between the two departments, of joints and foundations dedicated to reading or employment, is a good model, and we go further, because seven thousand are still few, seven thousand are still very few. But it is a step forward, innovative, and with which, moreover, we are attentive to all the petitions of the gatherings that are asking us; it is to say, there are many gatherings that are coming and asking us now, and we are listening to them, because we believe that it is a very important tool. The question of the feeding alleys: the spokesman of the CUP commented on it, he is quite right. The current outburst of scholarships, which is 100_per_cent complements some requirements, 50_per_cent complements others, leaves mass people to the mig: leaves mass people that will not reach 100_per_cent, but to whom a 50_per_cent is insufficient. And our proposal for the coming course – if there are assumptions, better, and, if not, we will do the same, because this is not just a presuppositional issue; the presuppositional one will allow us to have more scholarships –..., the one that we will already do the coming course, with assumptions or without, is an 80_per_cent also, so that those families that with 50_per_cent do not have enough to access the school cook, but that their requirements will not reach 100_per_cent, can access it. And, if it is convenient, compact it, because it can compact an 80_per_cent and we can get these families to access the school fooder free of charge and almost every day. There are compaction formulas that in some cases are working. I, for so long here they have our commitment, too. And a couple of final education things before you comment on the Health Department. First – said the advisor of Treball –: of all these smaller migrants alone, the younger than seven years we have to study, because they have right to schooling. The youngest of seven years we are in school, because we have to complete our right to schooling. We have a number of problems with their schooling. The first is what the counselor commented: they arrive without identifying us, they arrive without papers, because the State does not give them papers until the end of the month. But we can't wait for new months to school them, because we'll miss a course, and we can't miss a course. And through the Health Department, with the coordination of the Health Department, we go to school from the number of the health card, which is not normally the way we should go to school, but it's the only way we have to do it. And we do it – and we do it – because we can't wait for new months to school them. And we do so, with the difficulties that we face in our system, because obviously, as the counselor has explained, centres have been set up, and they are centres of thirty, forty minors, half of whom, to set an example, we need to study them. And there are times when they're in villages, let's just say, where they have very limited centers. But we have to, because we have to complete your right. And, finally, the People's Party. His spokesman, who is not there at the moment, said a jifra who once said it was obvious that he was not sure, but I consulted him, because I thought: "If you say it, it may be true, and obviously it was not. He talked about 50 percent of absenteeism. Jo, when he said it, I said: "It can't be, because I thought: 5,465 schools in Catalonia..., maybe in some there is 50_percent of absenteeism. No, no, At 5,465 schools in Catalonia there is a 50_percent absenteeism. In a 1.99_per_cent of these centers, which is not above 2, there is an absenteeism around 25_per_cent. In a 1.99 of these centers there is a absenteeism around 25_per_cent; very worrying. In fact, two things are very troubling: to say a false and the right one, two things are very troubling. There are plans against absenteeism. It is true that very often absenteeism has to do with the social reality of the surroundings or even with the work of families. Normally these larger cases of absenteeism are given in barrels where families have a job that is connected around markets, markets outside the municipality, and circuits of markets and wires, and this produces absenteeism in many of these cases. But it is the same, our obligation is that there is no absenteeism, that this 1.99_per_cent is as close as possible to 0, knowing that 0 is also impossible, but that it is as close as possible to 0. And for what it does to some commentaries on the performance of the Department of Health – and I conclude, Mr President – in the first place, if the concern is the laws, this Parliament voted an important law on health issues and also important for vulnerabilities, which was the Law of Universal Salvation; a universal law of salvation that attacks also the vulnerabilities of infants – also of infants – and which, unfortunately, does not get the vote of all groups in the chamber. For what he does in pediatrics – the president reminded us – we are aware of the lack of pediatricians, but all our infants are cherished either by a pediatrician or by a family doctor who specializes in pediatrics. But this is a temporary solution, because we want everyone to be pediatricians. For what it does to the waiting lists, I confirm that the Government will, at the beginning of the year, present a law of accessibility to improve the management of the waiting lists, and that in this law of accessibility there will also have criteria of vulnerability, and will therefore also have criteria that affect infants and adolescents in a vulnerable situation. For what it does to the addictions and the new technologies, from the Sub-Directorate General of Drugs, the Department of Health together with the Department of Education and also the Department of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, programs are being implemented, projects and preventive and assistance resources directed especially to children and young people and their families. To give two examples: at the care level, we are introducing to the portfolio of care services all the nine additions relating to the new technologies; and, for what it does at the preventive level, we will publish the guide for the prevention of digital events, addressed to all professionals working with adolescent people – educational professionals, health professionals, professionals working with children. And finally, we have room for improvement in child and youth mental health centres. And we need a margin of improvement in child and youth mental health centers to attend to all kinds of disruptions, as well as ADHD and ASD. But for this – for this – because we are conscious and we start to act, of the 70_million euros that have invested in mental health has prioritized mental health centers for infants and adolescents a 26_per_cent, and between 2016 and 2018 we have increased the assumption of the infant and youth mental health network by 40_per_cent. And on this aspect there is, to end, certainly, an example of coordination. At these times – at these times – it is already applying to the region of Osona, from a proposal of the unit of child psychiatry of the Hospital of the Vall d'Hebron, a joint action between the Department of Health, the Department of Education and services of the University of Vic ; a plan to take over the teaching and give it the tools of detection of disruptive ducts and behavioral disorders of the studentship of the centers. Because the Psychiatric Unit of the Valley of Hebron has found that many of the students who present disruptive behaviors in the centers or aggressive behaviors are not diagnosed because the family has not recognized it or because their pediatric correspondent has not recognized it, and, on the other hand, it is the educational environment where it is easier to recognize these attitudes or pathologies. And with this pilot proof that we are doing to all the centers of the region of Osona we hope to establish, from the proposal of the unit of psychiatry of the Vall d'Hebron and of the joint work of Health and Education, a protocol for all centers of Catalonia for this necessary action, which the unit of psychiatry of the Vall d'Hebron calculates that it is for a 20_percent of our population of students; a xifra that can seem high, that it is the usual xifra to the western world, but that it is a xifra that also needs a very concrete attention for the sake of the students and also for the sake of the same system of education. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. As the government's global contribution of interventions has been one hour, we will divide this time between the groups, and therefore, they correspond to each parliamentary group for two minutes of intervention. In the first place I intervened, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.62.0	Thank you, Mr. President. The government impermeable to unreality. Self-criticism zero. I think there has been a small self-criticism exercise on the part of the counselor, which I do not know if he has escaped, but now we will talk about the issue of education, which I think you have been addressing different issues. But, above all, the best thing is that the self-criticism that the counselor has made..., in the end and socialized, will not be that you have to assume the self-criticism yourself. No, no, the self-criticism we socialize here among all of us. No, you must do a very obvious exercise of self-criticism. And I have told you in my speech two or three times that we recognize that many of these issues are not easy to resolve. I think I have been the only speaker in the opposition groups who has made it clear to them that some of the problems we are talking about are complex problems, which are not solved overnight. But you don't deserve that kind of understanding from the opposition. You either deny the problem – « models of success, « a country pride, right? , the colliding system, and now we will talk about the conditions under which some of the people who have arrived in Catalonia are – or it is the fault of others: « de l'Estat, « de l'espoli fiscal... I imagine the families, the professionals, who are suffering from these issues every day, and they see you, and you will fall the sticks of the shadow – yes, yes, a very Castilian expression, you should be familiar with it too. Seeing you, who are in your hands the solutions to these problems, is discouraging, because you care very little. And not because I say it or my group says it. It's just that you said it, you wrote it. You wrote: "I only care about the independence of my country. You've written it, and on top of it, they prove it. They say it, they write it and they prove it with their government action. Neither social policies nor children's policies nor anything other than the process are their priority. They show it with their performance every day. The excuse is always from the others: always the excuse is from the Government of Spain, always the Spaniards steal from us. Always, always, always. Have you not noticed a small detail today? Have you noticed that today all the opposition groups, from the UPC to the PP, through the Socialist Party, we and the Lords of Podemos, agree on many of the issues? Not only that you do not prioritise resources to these policies, that I already think is obvious, but that there are problems of internal coordination by the Government: problems in protocols, management problems, problems in the evaluation of programmes, problems in updating the service portfolio, problems in deploying certain laws and pacts that have been agreed upon and that you have done nothing... Do you not realize that when all the opposition in bloc coincides with something so obvious, it is because we may be right? Perhaps the only ones who are in the opposite direction are you? Haven't you ever thought about it? I insist, complex problems, complicated problems to solve. But you don't prioritize. They don't care about this; they don't do anything. They make neither self-criticism – nor self-criticism. We're talking about education. You can sell it, Mr. Counsellor, as you wish, but at zero to three years the Generalitat of Catalonia in the budgets has given you zero_euros– zero_euros–, and you have found money for a lot of things. For education from zero to three years, zero – zero. Therefore, the excuses – "Well, it's actually that we too... –..., zero_euros. You have not found a single euro for this issue, and it is a fundamental issue. Today we are talking about childhood, but we could talk about reconciling work and working life. We could talk about equality between men and women, with this issue. It is essential: women who stay at home taking care of their children and giving up their professional careers, and the Generalitat allocates zero. The main source of inequality is when women reach the age of motherhood and when they are mothers. The issue of the protection of minors: the problem had collapsed from before. Do not blame yourself for the increase in the arrival of people from other countries. It did not work before, during, or after the tutelage, long before this increase that has certainly occurred in all the autonomous communities. And you cannot say that it is ‘a country pride as it is being managed, because there are people sleeping on the floor of the police stations. And when you... when you, as an autonomous community, as an administration, have boys and girls sleeping on the floor of police stations, you can't go out and say it's a pride, because it's not. Do yourselves, please, self-criticism; face reality. Another of the issues they were saying, the issue of pediatrics: there are no pediatricians in many places in Catalonia. Of course there are family doctors looking after the children, it would just be missing. But one of the demands precisely of professionals is to value primary care, to recognize the work of the specialty of family doctors, because it is a specialty. It seems that you, when you speak... "No, you are family doctors but specialized in... No, no, it is that the specialty exists, as family doctor, and you have to put it in value. They don't have the attention of people who have the specialty of pediatrics. You can sell it whatever you want, but that's the way it is. And territorial inequality in this sense is alarming – alarming. Just a small criticism that I think I have perceived from the education advisor, he says: "From next year, with budgets, the needs of those nine-thousand students who do not have their needs met will begin to be met. How can that be said and said to be a ‘ model of success? ' It's just that both things can't be defended at the same time. If you as a counselor say that at best next year, if there is luck, you will start..., because you have said literally « you will start to meet these needs; can you stop saying that it is a « model d'éxit? It's a model that he does is perpetuate social inequalities. How can they defend one thing and the other? That is why I think you have made self-criticism, but not even consciously, because you have made a total amendment to what you are defending. And if the system goes as it goes and does not go worse it is for the work of professionals and for the support of families, but not because it is « a model of success managed from the Generalitat. By the way, another issue on which I believe we can agree on all parliamentary groups, and even the Government: the issue of improving procedures when there is sexual abuse of minors. We agree, don't we? We agree with what you have explained, for example, in this very enlightening report Save the Children, right? When..., even boys and girls have to declare up to ten times for the same case – the spokesman of the group of commons also explained it. Do you know what law we could have discussed all this more than a year ago? In the law presented by Citizens to combat child abuse, sexual abuse. What did you do? Lock it in. Here they could have come, in the paper many experts, and we could have talked about the Barnahus method, we could have talked about many things. What did you do? Lock it in. Why? Because they weren't interested in this. You, at the time, were with your Transitional Law and stuff. This work could have already been advanced here. And this is not a budget, Mr Torra; this is not 'Madrid steals from us. This is to coordinate us better, to make a better protocol so that the process is much more efficient and much closer and much better for the victims. It is no one else's fault for this than you, in the government and in Parliament, because we are barred from the laws in which we bring this debate here, so that experts, families, entities, professionals can come. But this doesn't matter to you. How long have we lost in this particular case? How long have we lost since you blocked this law? How many interesting debates have we missed in Parliament, which you have wanted to fill with other issues? How many traumas could we have saved? And I am setting an example for you because today we are certainly talking about many issues, because this issue requires it; it is an issue, I insist, that needs to be addressed from a cross-cutting perspective. But not everything is budget. And also, of course, many of the things are money and are budget items and it's how you prioritize, but there are other things where you don't even have the excuse for money: it's better management, better coordination, better regulation, better updating. You do not want to solve the problems, because your only problem..., Mr Torra has said it many times: "The main problem in Catalonia is self-determination. Well, I don't know if this will be the main problem for Catalan families. I don't think so. For you it may be, but for the reality of Catalans it is not. We are going to make proposals, of course. Many, I acknowledge, have already presented them several times in this plenary and you have blocked them. Let's see if we're lucky this time, you've been a little sensitised, you've given yourself a little reality bath, and then..., maybe this time we're lucky and you don't block some of the proposals, but let's talk about proposals in education, proposals in mental health. By the way, the figure you repeat of the 70_million_euros..., only 17,5 are for young people and children, only 17. I'm telling you this because you've repeated the figure of 70_million; that's for the whole population, and we're talking about childhood – we're talking about childhood. And there is an important problem, without being alarmist, with the issue of mental health in children and adolescents, in which the income of parents and the socio-economic level of families greatly influences. But we'll talk about waiting lists, we'll re-present our law against abuse and sexual abuse, see if we're lucky this time. Hey? Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if these gentlemen don't block it this time and we can talk about these very important things. But we'll present more things that we haven't been able to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.63.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.64.0	It's over, Mr. President. Many things that, due to lack of time, like the issue of the fight against LGBTIphobia of children, the issue of abuse, the issue of healthy nutrition... In short, there is so much to do, we are wasting so much time with you at the head of the Generalitat...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.65.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.66.0	... that you have no right to ask an independent country to manage it from the government – as people, yes – as parties from the government, because you do not know how to manage an autonomy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.67.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.68.0	Who doesn't know how to manage autonomy... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the deputy and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.69.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.70.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable President of the Generality, Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament, today we went to dinner and I thought: "The President is sure that this morning's cup has been laid, and has been taken from somewhere. And, indeed, as we do not have time, let us say, among the debate, to prepare our data, I have found the same report that you have drawn from the data that says that Catalonia invests 4.09 of GDP in childhood policies. And he read it, didn't he? – I won't tell you all now, because I have two minutes – just one sentence, which says: « First of all, total spending on children is 9,000_million_of_euros, which is 27.16_per_cent of total expenditure and 4.09 of autonomous GDP. Nine_million_of_euro turns out we spend in childhood – 9,000. I invite you to make a critical reading of the data passed on to you. Nine_ thousand_million_of_euros is, if we invested it in childhood, everything we invested in health, the whole health budget; but it would be even more than we invested in education and social services together. It's impossible. Of course, you speak of transversality. That this of transversality, those of us who are already wearing a few little ones, depends on how, one brings it well and, hey..., "a little bit I take my fleas off, I talk about transversality and all of it. And, of course, if we unite health, education, social services... That means uniting senior residences, for example; do we also count them as childhood policies? Do we count the entire work budget as child policies? Everything? Universities? Do we also count everything as childhood policies? Are the entire health budget child policies? No, no, Therefore, what I invite you to do, in any case, is to adjust that transversality. And I already know that the figure is good for them, but this figure is not correct, and therefore that same UNICEF report, two reports later, quotes what we know, which is 0.8 of GDP in children's policies, which I logically invite you to increase. I will answer some of the things that have been said as well and that you did well to answer. We have tabled ninety-four, ninety-five proposals. That hundred proposals, we calculated that about 600_million would be what it would take to carry them out. Since we spend 9,000, we don't get 600, do we? If we spend 9,000_million_of_euros in childhood, total, 600... Hey, and we're doing everything and we're doing it right now, right? Well, about 600_million_euros. How do you pay them? Man, I can think of one that will come to you, sure: there are 2,200_millions waiting at the door of this Parliament and that you refuse to arrive, 2,200_millions that you refuse to enter this Parliament. And I also ask you: please make a tax reform that allows the Generalitat's own revenues to increase the tax burden to those who have the most, who charge the most. I ask you and, fundamentally, Esquerra Republicana, Mr Aragonès, who is currently not, who is from Esquerra Republicana. And, therefore, the de Esquerra would ask, please, a certain redistribution of wealth. You say to me: "No, there are things we have not been able to do. 155... man, I already missed it, the public wild card. I mean, 155 is the culprit right now that we can't invest much more in childhood in this country. Isn't that right? Of course not, Mr. President. More than anything because a third part of 155 was application of the strict 155; the rest we've been waiting for you to form government. Therefore, if it was so bad for Catalonia – and you know it perfectly and directly – your responsibility would have, in any case, accelerated that process. But, in any case, the 155 as the public's wild card is already something that's a little bit manic. By the way, our proposals are worth 600_million_of_euro, that's what we estimate; what I don't know is what yours are worth, because I haven't heard them, and you're the president of the Generalitat. It is already good that the opposition demands us to say how much our proposals are worth; we estimate it, there is no problem. What about yours? How much are they worth? Then, in the presuppost... 9,000_million_euros too, right? Well, we'll see about that, anyway. There are also some items that I would like to highlight on this morning's debate. One of the things that we have perhaps seen more clearly is that Catalonia has no direction, we don't know where we are going in childhood policies; in fact, we don't know what will happen between now and two months. We're getting out of this debate without being clear. That, by the way, in a debate promoted by the opposition on childhood issues, the government could have come here and said two fonmental and powerful measures, and we got out of here, even all of you, with the headline, and the people, less worried. We don't have these headlines. That opposition groups present concrete examples, situations of everyday life, and, in this case, the deputy of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gallardo, accused us of demagogicizing. Mrs Gallardo, of course, seems to say that citizenry claims pediatricians – pediatricians – is to make demagogic. Pediatricians. There are no pediatricians, President. There are no pediatricians. Go to CAP Gran Sol, for example, in Badalona: there are no pediatricians. And they can't store it with the headmasters, the family midwives. There are no pediatricians. It's that we're at these very basic points of complaint. When we say that there are deaf students without understanding, even though I recognize that the counselor has explained the causes and the will that this change, we are not making magic, we are explaining the realities that happen. When we report that sexual welfare protocols, when we report that this government does not complete the laws of the past nine years or when you tell us that this Parliament has approved increased social spending on its own assumptions up to 2.8_percent of GDP, of course, we are not demagogic. That is to say, you cannot come here to say that we have 4,6_percent of GDP destined for childhood and approve, your parliamentary groups, which give recollection to the Government, that we support infancy investment up to 2,8_per_cent. Something doesn't fit, there's something that doesn't fit. That's demagogic. And, Mrs Gallardo, I, too, am a social educator, with more than two years of experience in working with children and young people, and that doesn't make me any better or worse; even so it doesn't make me or have better analysis than it does or that of another person who is dedicated to this subject. What happens, which here is also shows that, depending on the social sector with which a_has worked, the experience about which are the services or not the services and which is the ease of access or not to the services is absolutely different. Mr Bargalló, and also for the rest of the Members, I will give you other examples... I think this is not demagogic, but perhaps it is a date that has not been said, that is recent, of the State Observatory of Disability. In the last report he compares with the rest of the autonomous communities, and says: "Alumnus with special educational needs enrolled in ordinary centres according to the autonomous communities. We are the last autonomous community with students with special educational needs enrolled in ordinary centres: 62.7 per cent. That's a worrying fact. I'm just saying, why... what's going on? I'm glad you want to reverse this situation, because it's especially hard. Miri, I will give you the example, for example, of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, which I know perfectly well. In Santa Coloma de Gramenet a family with a child with special educational needs, depending on the time he is enrolled..., can not enroll him because there are not enough places because this student, therefore, receive the reunion to class or outside or the accompanying of the professionals of the USEE. What do you have to do? To go, to go to a private center outside the city of Santa Coloma, to get this gathering. There is if it can be paid for, and if it cannot be paid for, it learns and does not answer exactly the same support it needs, well because it has problems, let's say, of attention deficit or speech problems or for what it is. But we have to try to get this microsurgery, which is fundamental to equal opportunities, to everyone. And this is where we have to make every effort to put the money, to put the money in it, and to put the money in it. I demand the President's responsibility in managing it. I demand government action, because you can do things; others have done it at the same time, roughly, government that you carry. For example, the Government of the State announced this morning that the Children's Protection Act will include protocols against rape at the centre, and will also include the duty of any person to communicate indications of crime, for which it will ensure confidentiality and anonymity. And as we do not have this register of abusers, the RUMI, since 2007–2007–, I think it will be better to wait for the announcement made to the Minister of Interior a few weeks ago, with the creation of a single register to know the reality of all the rapes against children, than to ensure that people who have been violently engaged in any type of conduct against minors cannot reconnect with them. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I can't answer Councilman Chakir El Homrani on some of the issues he's made, but communication with the gatherings is very important, Mr. El Homrani. Therefore, direct communication, call the mayor, say: "Listen to me, tomorrow, tomorrow past, they will come to you. It's not always – no, it's not always –, no, because we're being played by the mayors and they say: "What happened here that nobody called me and that I have a problem with my city? Communication, that's all I'm asking. I'm done. Professionals are the ones who have endured their leave in childhood policies in this country. And, therefore, I think all of them should be recognized for their work. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is now the return of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.72.0	Good afternoon. Mirin, in the middle of the morning – dinar, so to speak, huh? – in the middle of this plenary and this debate, I was able to visit a secondary group that was visiting the Parliament of Catalonia and that was doing an activity with the secondary groups when they came, which is a simulation of the functioning of the Parliament, in this case a simulation of the debates of a parliamentary initiative in which the groups, four groups that were there, had to put forward proposals to the table and agree on a Parliament's table and to agree on a government. They were high school students from an institute in Cerdanyola who, when I arrived, had just closed government agreements to invest a woman president, certainly, and agreed on measures that were especially powerful and valuable in guarantees of good public service, free and universal in matters of education and health, with a few more measures, but I was surprised that half of the measures that have included elements of social tariff, redistributive taxes and environmental taxes. What a great awareness, that of these secondary students, who, in order to implement public right-guarantee policies, made it clear that there are sufficient resources to be able to implement them. Why am I saying that? So because some of the examples that the counselors have put forward right now are that, without presuppositional endowments at the back, they're dumb paper. Counselor Bargalló, the topic of the National Pact against School Segregation – certainly, forced for the syndic after two years there was no real bet to attack one of the main problems we have in our education system – without resources behind it is paper mullat. Like the decree, you yourself have said – like the decree – of inclusive school: without assumptions at the back, it will not be implemented. That by no means only 9,500 students with specific educational needs, but the whole education system, who do not have these resources for inclusive school, do not benefit then, affects the teacher, who is overwhelmed, and the rest of the student, who does not have the necessary attention on the part of this teacher. It also passes with guaranteed income of citizenry, Councillor El Homrani. You yourself, the Government, when we were debating the Law on guaranteed citizenship income in this Parliament were the ones who said that, in order to apply the guaranteed citizenship income..., in that case, Constellera Bassa calculated, and said, that 500_millions a year– 500_millions a year. We're not getting 300 million euros right now. The powerpoint that they have made these last few hours respects some of the measures that they claim to include in the assumptions speak of ‘more than EUR 300_million. Do you want to say more than 300 million euros? I don't think so. Do you want to say more than €300 million in total for the coming year for the guaranteed income of citizens? Escotin, no. It does not serve, the guaranteed income of citizenship, if there is not enough presuppositional endowment. We see that. We already carry more than a year of application: it is not useful. We are the ones who – among others, but we have, moreover, made explicit – have left the band behind, put a stop to the demand for the universal benefit per child, understand that it should first apply to income, right? , for families with the most needy. We left it parked, this proposal of the PEUC, which is that proposal that I said to make for children with child ownership that all entities claim from us, that the syndic of us; we left it parked in the last legislature and prioritized that there should be a measure of 100 euros per child in the guaranteed income of citizens. It's not working, counselor; what we're saying is, it's not working. The poor child continues to increase in quantity, overall, in the world of poor children, but also in the gravity of the poor. Therefore, we may have to do different things, and yes, we believe it is up to us to recover the income proposal for infants, because we have no guarantee that the guaranteed income of citizenship you want to apply with courage enough to attack the global poor of our society and specifically the poor child. It passes the same with zero-three: 20_million euros, which is what they have announced in this powerpoint for the financing of the lars of municipal infants know that it is absolutely insufficient. It's half what it takes to complete what they're obligated to, which is a third of the cost of children's playgrounds. It would be 45_million euros, which would heat up, not to create new ones, only to finance existing ones, one_third of the cost of existing ones. These 20_million euros, by the way, expect to be added to resources that the Barcelona City Council has put in the last few years, which has covered the spaces, not to mention another part of the body, to a government of the Generality that was not putting in these resources from its premises. But it turns out that the Barcelona City Council's assumptions for the coming year don't include this game anymore. What makes us think what the share of the municipal schools will be for the coming year, for the coming year, or what will be the responsibility that is borne by the assemblies in order to have to cover what will not now be done by the Government of the Generality or the Barcelona City Council, certainly with local funds. Which is why it makes us think what's going to happen. Therefore, it is not necessary to advertise things without sufficient resources. And respect the unaccompanied children and young people. Listen, we've recognized that a brutal presuppositionary effort had to be made during this year to cover a need that was overflowing, yes. But it's not that it was implacable: since the 1990s we have minors, infants and young people, we haven't accompanied them to Catalonia; since the 99 that there are specific professionals for this theme of attention to the street at the Barcelona City Hall. It is not certain that it was implacable: there were data on how many people there are at the southern border of Spain trying to enter. Certainly, it was not possible to plan the allu..., "allu do not like to say it. It was not possible to plan the overflowing quantities of this summer. Now, the way you managed it wasn't right either: only from DGAIA until this was called for. We said this with a letter to President Torra, we said this with a motion for a resolution that was approved in the General Policy Plenary, and we congratulate ourselves on the fact that we proposed it at that time, that there was an inter-departmental strategy, a strategy of a country, that was being set in motion. One of the proposals we wanted to make in this House precisely was to demand that, from here to a public holiday, we pass on to the Parliament of Catalonia the results of this strategy that are working. So let's just say we're glad there's been a date. Therefore, rest assured that we will have other external proposals that are not complete with that resolution that we have made to the General Policy Plenary on this very issue that we can recover for this Plenary. And I ended up with three concepts. What do we want? We want the government to complete the law, our law, the law of rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence. A good law, sure it's up to date, but it's still a good law, and it's not complete, because it's not fully deployed. But it's just that there's more to it than just some conceptual issues. We want the law to be completed, the Convention on the Rights of Infants to be completed, and I especially highlight to them an essential principle of the Convention on the Rights of Infants: the child's best interest in all public policies. I also said our law: presumably, the best interest of the infant, can not be justified for lack of presumption not being guaranteeing basic rights of childhood – I said our law. Another basic concept: we want the reduction of inequalities to be the main objective of the assumptions and public policies of this government. We want, therefore, sufficient investment, we want return policies, we want forecasting, we want planning, we want priority for what really attacks these inequalities. Certainly, an inequality that we also have in our country is territorial equity, because everything that is left in the hands of the assemblies makes that, depending on the sensitivities of the assemblies, is guaranteed or not guaranteed, such as access to the right to extracurricular or to leave, we can have fantasistic examples like that of Sabadell, where it is facilitating free English and swimming, etc., to families with economic problems, and other cities that are not doing it or cannot do it. They can't be feeding this territorial inequity. And one last concept: we want them to listen to children and adolescents, we want them to draw public policies by listening to those who affect these public policies and, therefore, to their way of seeing public policies, and I refer to the last sentence given by Councillor El Homrani on The Little Príncipe. But we also want you to act as adults and assume your responsibilities. One thing doesn't take away the other, and acting as adults and taking responsibility is not just completing your own laws, but also having assessment, having data, having public policy-related planning. And yes, data is necessary, and on the part of adults we need data to be able to make these assessments, as well as monitoring and control mechanisms, certainly, which also includes the law or includes the Children's Covenant, which is also frozen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed is the turn now of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.74.0	I'm going to be allowed by Councilman El Homrani to grab the thread from the end of his intervention. He was talking to us about The Little Príncipe, the Councillor, and I will continue what The Little Príncipe is, which is an allegory, making another allegory, taking advantage also of the fact that there is not the Councillor of Culture and, therefore, if I am mistaken as a rhetorical figure, then perhaps he will not correct me. Look, with the little prince, I'm not going to talk to him about the little prince, I'm going to talk to him about what the narrator is. The little prince's narrator is the aviator, and the aviator is in a situation where his plane doesn't lose the engine, but his engine doesn't work, and he has to land the Sahara, and he has the problem that he himself has to fix the plane. Exactly this is what some groups in this House were setting up for him: that he would not leave alone those who have found themselves in a situation of the world economy in which the engine does not work, but if someone thinks that they would stay there, at the edge of the Sahara, they would be able to solve the problem, all alone and all alone, we would not find this solution, and therefore that you make clear policies because the one or those who cannot solve it for himself or herself can find a follow-up. We also need to recognize that it is not easy to give answers to the problems that are being raised today with regard to children, and we, with this recognition that it is not easy, we do give who are the three axes. And the first one is a finance line. And for us the second is a public administration. We do not want it to be that, in relation to the management of some of our public services, we have done some recognition from the Catalan Administration once, because we think that it is very public that the management of some businesses and some foundations is not just part of getting benefits, but of an action that is not from the commercial sphere but is certainly from the criminal sphere. And so we ask that the Catalan Administration move forward not only to resolve, but to explain to us what happened there. I the third element: guarantee for workers. It is not possible for us to have global solutions if there is not a proposal for job stability for one band and minimum working conditions for another band. In relation to some questions, from which they have come and from which they have not come... Habitat. We already know what the generality has and what there is not, and we already know, obviously, that there can be other administrations that should also act, but the most fluid communication is needed: we do not say that there is no communication, I don't think anyone says it, but it is more fluid. And concrete measures too. We have a reality: that a family with a minor does it outside their home and forty-eight hours can be on a pension or even after some benefits that are not compatible with the development of a minor. That's what we need to talk about, and we need to give answers. About the toilet seat, which we haven't really talked about. Look, there are some very concrete and easy-to-resolve questions and no presuppositional dedication. What is the double cochlear implant is a decision that we should not be discussing: we should say yes, we should give an answer, and as long as we do not have a whole series of deaf or deaf children who do not find this answer from a point of view not only of a portfolio of services, but also of the cost of the second. Guaranteed income from citizenship. We haven't talked much, with the counselor; we're talking about it from now on. We would not deny that there was better in the situation, but we started from a very small base. And to what is a law, which should serve us perfectly to express the type of country we want, with the eradication of the poor, but while it is not eradicated, concrete alternatives, therefore, seem to be turning into the opposite, because we do not give so much resolution through this performance. I respect the groceries. We are glad, Counselor, that this proposal has been made, but it has fully understood us. We're not setting the 75_per_cent threshold; what we're setting, obviously, is that the criterion for 100_per_cent is not absolutely rigid, that's where we're standing, and that's leaving many families very much in need of no food and that's what you think, that you know better than we do, that's that there's families up to everything that's planted: "I'm going to look for my baby or my baby, because if what I have is this, I'm going to try to do me home, and I'm going to know everything about nutrition that's not appropriate. And to end with a question too – we wanted to deal with the schools in Bressol, but we don't have time and we have already dealt with it – which we haven't made any reference, in our interventions, but it is also fundamental in childhood policies: feminist policies. Feminism does not have to come when they have neither twelve, nor seven, nor divided or twenty-four years; feminist policies have to come from the first moment of our formation to avoid the social frailty that we have in the day-to-day with regard to male violence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.75.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.76.0	Thank you, President. From the escó estant, to make in a short form three – three – considerations. The President of the Generality in his speech today reminded me of that topic that is about policies and how they define policies as those that create problems and then try to solve them. And it made me feel like today's president said, "Listen to me, we're the ones who solve problems, when I think the perception is that it's precisely you who create the problems. And I was going to say, "Listen, we've solved the problem of working people. Home, at least I think it's a bit of a note, don't you think? because, precisely, the problem with the employees arises when this government fails to complete its own commitment to the employees to return the 2013 and 2014 payments. And if there are problems with the doctors, then it's precisely because this government..., or the former government decided not to recover the assumptions of the Health Department, which have already done the total practice of communities in relation to the years of crisis and that situation that it suffered. One_second consideration, in relation to the funding of the school of zero-three years. Counselor, it would only be necessary for the department, therefore, to stop financing the choices of what it holds – it would only be missing – but to remember some figures, right? The year 2010 the funding of the schools of zero-three years was 90_million euros, 2014 had already fallen to 45 and 2015 went to zero. I don't know if there's anything to see... so long as it's gone, it's good, the government's intention, and we value it, huh? , which is recovered a part, small, of the presupposition. We read today that it is 20_million euros from the assumption for the financing of zero-three-year schooling. I don't know if there must have been anything to see the feelings that have been made with regard to Cornellà de Llobregat and the Hospital, precisely, to get this game back. And finally, the third item I wanted to share with you. Look, I didn't have this 50-per-cent date of absenteeism either. I found it – I found it. I'll show you the area – I'll do it in private then I'll show you concretely the barrels and I'll show you concretely the schools, I won't do it publicly –: South Badalona. But, Counselor, what's harder..., of course, Counselor, what's harder is that you deny us when, for example, there's a plan to transform the Southern Badalona consortium that has participated in the same Generality of Catalonia, and here we're talking about 40_percent primary absentee fees and 60_percent secondary absentee fees. So I think it's quite alarming that we're paying attention to it. It's all right. If the fact of having mentioned this cipher served because the counselor was alarmed, asked for respect information, so I think he will see that the information is hard enough to pay more attention to it today if he can pay attention from today to try to correct this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.77.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of the deputy Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.78.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Well, we came here today, we did the debate, we talked everyone, we gave all our points of view, and the truth is that one thing is pretty clear as you see the childhood of each group, huh? But in the first place I have to confess one thing. Mrs. Arrimadas, you've left me quite worried today. Clearly, mother-in-law and you told me about childhood, you spoke about childhood, about teaching, about salvation as worrying enough. Or so, I'm worried because I don't know if my kids are okay at school right now, because while I'm working here, my kids are in a public education center, where they're at the fooder, logically, in a public fooder, and where I trust my kids are well-attended. And here you are, therefore, the truth that has worried me a little enough with your intervention. And besides, respect salvation, you are very concerned about vulnerable infants. You're very concerned, but what I don't understand is how you didn't vote for the universal salvation law for everyone, because you remember – remember – that many infants would stay away when you didn't support this law. Yes, ma'am, they were left – yes, ma'am – the children of the children of immigrants, the children that the parents had lost, let's say, the residence permit, etc. Well, we're not going to go into detail right now, but the truth is, I've been worried enough about you in this sense, because when you get out of here I'm going to be rushing to pick up my kids. Well, Companion Moreno, you said you didn't feel any proposal here. I felt it. Yes, I didn't hear about sexual abuse, the entire sexual abuse unit, which was well explained by Councillor El Homrani; the reform of the protection system, and the Catalan strategy of MENA. These are proposals that the government has made. And respect conciliation, Mrs. Arrimadas, you have told us that, of course, if we don't have public funding to be able to pay for the expense, let's say, of the school Bressol, the issue of conciliation is complicated. I believe that conciliation is not resolved because the Bressol school is financed. It went further, the subject of conciliation; that would be part of it. So you make a realistic proposal, introduce it and we can debate it, and not just headlines. That said, as we said before, childhood for us is important. And the child has to work from a cross-sectional axis. And we said that we are very concerned and we want to focus on childhood and health, and when we say childhood and health we are talking about protection, prevention, early detection and also education in healthy areas, things that are already being done that we can continue to do or provide for others. Childhood and education: we insist a lot and re-emphasize inclusive school. For us, inclusive school is very important, a school that serves as a social ascent, a school that gives equal opportunities to all students. Regardless of our origin, regardless of our barriers, regardless of our social status, we all need to get out with the same guarantees and we need to get in with the same access. Childhood, participation and, I would say, civics. It is very important for us to encourage participation in our children, and we have said so. We want our..., if we want to have a society tomorrow with a critical ability to participate, to be able to exercise participation and be civic, we need to start at the first child and continue at the different stages of childhood. Childhood and equality, because we want to break with gender stereotypes. We want our children to be able to understand that it is their genera, that they must all have this prospect of genera already from very young, and that is why we need to promote strategies, which are what they are doing in this line. Counselor El Homrani, you're right: it's hard to plan the arrival of minors not accompanied, but, of course, we also need data, and that's not up to us, and we've said it many times. We need data that will facilitate the Spanish State to know how many children have not been accompanied to Andalusia and that they will already inform Andalusia that they want to come to Catalonia, and this information we do not have. And we also want to keep it so that we can plan for the gathering, rearrangement and acquiescence of these minors in our territories. We have previously said that we are concerned, and so has Councillor El Homrani, because the youngest is new without a residence permit. Worrying– worrying. What's more, the problem is that they don't have residence permits, not above them, but we can't have a work permit either, and if we've done some activity with these minors and we've drifted them to an occupational center so that they can acquire an office, they can't work because they don't have a residence permit. And in the different years we find that the State Administration has not responded, which this minor is already an adult and becomes vulnerable. But that's not..., or so on, it's a concern that concerns us all. And you, Mrs. Arrimadas, since you have enough presence at the Congress of Deputies, the Congress of Deputies, why don't you ask Mr. Sánchez to expedite these proceedings? If you ask them and agile them, maybe we wouldn't be talking about this difficulty we have, and maybe, so, we wouldn't have so many less vulnerable ones, because surely their documentation would already have it. Finally, I'm a person who believes in basic social services, I think they do an impressive job, but I also think we need to help them, we need to help them because basic social services are the closest to the city. And respect for childhood, often – often – as structured, they have no resources to be able to attend to the child's need in all its complexity. That is why we asked, Mr. Councillor El Homrani, that in the contract program it is possible to extend the assumption destined to the assemblies in order to be able to contract personnel that can sail for the needs of the children, especially in those municipalities that there is a presence of minors not accompanied, and we need street educators who also want to work with the remaining minors. I would also like to say that in the case of my assembly, we have rejected the call from the council to warn that the minors are arriving, and to other assemblies as well. Well, fellas, I think it's time we put all our folds to value all the proposals and look at what's best or who's the best proposals for our infants. And in this we have to let go of the partisan theme, let's say, of each game, and we have to go to the bottom of the question, which is the good of childhood and the protection of childhood. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.79.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of MP Imma Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.80.0	Thank you very much, President. President Torra, advisors, deputies and deputies, public that today accompany us and Parliament staff... Arrived at this point of the debate, where all groups have already positioned and we have been able to defend the issues, only briefly highlight a few points. First of all, on important issues such as childhood, and today we have seen, we have coincided with almost all groups, not everyone, that childhood is the future, and that we should put infants at the centre of social policies. The demagogic thing that he does is to make it impossible for good public policies to happen to children and any other policy. And yes, Mr Moreno, when I was talking about demagogic I didn't mean to point out faults and make criticisms, no; demagogic is to attribute a devastating diagnosis around childhood and link it to political struggle to get a proper state. In any case, I did not accuse anyone in concrete terms; who had felt questioned, therefore, that I reviewed why. Anyway, I'm glad we're in the profession, because we'll certainly have points of coincidence and we'll be able to work a lot better. Secondly, I think that I should listen much more to the professionals, who are the great connoisseurs of the weak, but also to the strengths of our system. Even so, we could agree that surely we need more planning, more evaluation, and we can certainly move much further forward in the cross-sectionality and coordination between the different departments involved in the comprehensive care of childhood – so we are asked for from different collections. But we also need to keep moving forward in the reflections of which city we want tomorrow. And I come back to claim it: the children are people, lower at times of their life, but people, and we have to treat them as such. Thirdly, we need more funding, which we have seen clearly. Not only does efficiency and effectiveness depend on resources, but also on how it works, but it's not the 2,200_millions that are expected, it's the 16,000_millions that go and don't come back, and with that you could do a lot of childhood care policies. Fourthly, despite the fact that the whole government is doing a good job, as the councillors have just said, and this morning the president himself, I think that a very special recognition must be given to the professionals and the entities, which are also doing it, this good job. Personally, I also add that I think that I can preserve much more the territorial balance, because the children and their families have the same needs, visquina to Llavorsí, to the High Pirinius, or to the EMD of Jesus, to the Lands of the Ebro; to Castelló d'Empúries, to Girona, or to Castellví de la Marca, to the districts of Barcelona. And, finally, we can't reverse our school model, here we totally disagree. The Catalan school is a model of success, better, as always in life, but success, where the children, when they finish the formative stage, speak two or three languages, or more, no problem. And that's good for his training. In short, with the will to work and negotiate the motions for resolutions. But I have to say that it is hard for me, that I actually hoped that the group proposing the debate had not commented on any, but in any case, we hope that, as is happening in the committees, we can understand 'if we reach agreement between the different parliamentary groups that allow us to move forward in order to improve the lives of our children and young people, also with the motions for resolutions that we will make the different groups in this monoGRAPHic plenary. And finally, a phrase from Maria Montessori who I think needs to clearly mark the way we have to go on when we talk about childhood: « The best you can do to help me is to leave me a driver for myself. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.81.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. This debate has ended, and in agreement with the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokesmen, the processing of the subsequent motions for resolutions will follow this debate: the deadline for submitting these motions for resolutions is until two-quarters tomorrow morning; the qualification and communication to the parliamentary groups and sub-groups of the proposals admitted to the Bureau will be fifteen minutes after that deadline, and finally to say that, for the purposes of the compromise proposals, the deadline will be said to the middle twelve, which is the request made for parliamentary groups. The record, tanmateix, that this term is improbable, as it was set up and agreed to the Board of Spokespersons. The communication to the groups and subgroups on the proposals admitted to the months of transaction is will do the same said at 12.30 pm – two-quarters of one in the middle. And the presentation and voting of these motions for resolutions will be the same as you said, presumably by three o'clock in the afternoon. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the status of squadron and bomber body seedlings]] [[302-00041/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The next point is the motion following the question to the Government on the situation of the seedlings of the squadron and bomber bodies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Posão. You have the word to expose it to Mr. Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.82.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies and deputies, make an effort to make a change now a little radical of the theme we were working on to talk about another. Look, when politics gets tough and warm, like this week, the week of the 21st of September, sometimes it takes a little break, it takes a reflection because I let us look at each other and find those points in which we agree, those points of finding that allow us to reflect the point of pedagogy that you require. And we're on a tough week. This diver's squad moss will again be in the spotlight of the country's public opinion. They and they have to do their job, they have to do their job well so that you can all sell and all can enjoy your rights and your freedoms. Therefore, this young man has the intention of being this: a point of finding. It was a dialog with the counselor we held last week, a dialog that is still alive, because some of the demands that I hope today we can approve are still not a reality. But this dialog and this negotiation that the government, the squadron unions and the fire unions are realizing we expect soon to be a reality. We'll try with this guy to make a contribution. I want to thank the dialogue that I have maintained with most parliamentary groups, some to the Government, or that they support the Government, others to the opposition, because it really shows that in matters of security policies and Emergencies policies we can agree. It is an obligation, I would say, that we agree: it is good for the country, it is good for the Mosso and it is good for the Bombers. And if you're sure here, that they're not here today, I'm sure that's what we would ask ourselves: that we agree to respect their political situation and respect their demands for work. That's why the motion deals with three things. First of all, a political point, a point that perhaps should not be said, but which should be said at these complex moments, that is that the Government of Catalonia is responsible and that it has competence over citizen security in our country. And that's how I'm supposed to keep feeling. And that the Squadre Mossos are professional, professional of public security and, therefore, under their control there is the public order of this country, "public order that I want to remind you that it does not have to be seen as a word linked to repression, it does not have to be so, because in a democratic police and in a democratic country the public order is the guarantee of the exercise of the phonenal rights by all citizens. And it's what we want you to go through, that all of our citizens, all without exception, can develop their fundamental rights. Second, it's work. Six years Bombers and Mosses have seen their plants frozen and have accumulated detail that you know. Therefore, we need to be consistent and we need to generate more seedlings, more squadron moves: we ask 750 already in these assumptions and 250 bombers. We also need to generate better wages, organization and timetables, early retirement, etc., for these plants, and we need to generate those material benefits – we are talking about installations, vehicles, equipment, uniforms, theft, footwear, etc. – that the Mossos and Bombers need. Therefore, I hope that this young man is able to approve and remain in front of the Mossos and of the Bombers a positive message: here is a parliament that respects them and that dignifiedly treats these professionals, Mossos and Bombers of the Generality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.84.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. This movement of the companies of In Comú, of Nuet, we believe is very well maintained, has achieved collaboration and contributions practically everyone. And also, he has already said, we believe that he is also very good at collation with the situation we have today. I saw it, and I said it, as a supplement to the next one, didn't I? They have focused on more general issues to show the way with great questions, and then I think concretely with specific points of the questions. With the situation in which we have relations with the plants of the Squad and the Generality Fireworks, with the attack, with the col·lapse, I believe that there were things that needed to be done today through concrete proposals. In this case, I believe that the fact of defending the skills of the Squad Movements and ratifying them as the full police on behalf of this Parliament is a very good thing to do. Defending, as it cannot be otherwise, the professionalism of all the moves and the moves of Catalonia and the bombers and the firefighters. I've got express support for the two bodies. I also support or say expressly that they have suffered from retailing that have ended up affecting even at a few moments their work quite worryingly. And, therefore, to gather and support a staff increase, to have a social dialogue with the social share of Bombers and Mossos, and naturally to increase, therefore, the material benefits as much of Mossos as of the Bomber Cos. Therefore, we appreciate this motion and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mr Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.86.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies. Well, first of all to thank the group proposing a young man who, as the Socialist Party's partner has already said, falls just in the critical week. Like he said, it's a week when we see the Squad's Mosses Cos in a weaver before the 21st. Obviously we will also be very loving to this Conselho of the Police, which will be tomorrow, the 19th, if we do not only talk about many of the problems that already arise from this motion and the proposals that it incorporates, but also of those who must also be those orders, those devices, those operatives, those effects that we must have on the road on the 21st before they get there. That said, a young man who also wanted to complete..., and to give thanks also to the proposing group, which has had to accept the four papers that we have presented since the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, four papers that also enclave us, as we see at point 1 – at point 1 – when we talk about leaving the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra that are great professionals, which is who they are; leaving the police that have been prepared to be professional and the police that do their work. I don't know yet, and I don't have any priors that there's ever been, since a councillor, someone who's been through police training, and sometimes since the councillors, we have to be on top of what the professional tells us. We don't want to politicize a thing like the Mossos d'Esquadra, which, as has been said, we need to put in value. Security is a good price that we only find missing when we're missing, counselor. And that was something that from the tops, too, politicizations in many cases... that we have seen, as we saw on other dates, also being caps of, in many cases, disobeying. Listen to me, I had never seen that there were orders that led to disobeying resolutions, in this case, or judicial requirements, requirements, as we saw, warnings that were not to be produced, and we saw alien permissions that would allow that. It's a body that has suffered from an enveloping, that we need to make prediction policies. Many times we talk about those policies of foresight, which are the ones that bring us solutions before the problem comes to us. Forecast policies that we have not seen in different governments or in the present. Policies also of a body that has had a template, as I said, wrapped up; we have all the great distance from the second activity, many folds pending also from a council: I could tell you about the law of the second activity, the great struggle that we are also working for that retirement. We know that there are proposals, we know that they have already started talking and there are proposals, but what we want to see is reality in this sense. Miri, when we talk about forecasting too, make forecasting policies, make policies that bring us solutions, the risk situation... Miri, will allow me to subtract a point: the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, the police environment must be in front of many times of the mess that many groups or governments can hold to the head. I'll let the Squad Mosses Cos work, I'll let the professionals do their job. You don't want to become cops sometimes, sometimes paralyzing the performances, huh? Because when we see that the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Let it work, but it's fine, too. The councillor, too, who began to work to adapt a thing that deserves it, a thing that we have to put in value. Look, I've also brought other items, and I'll be very brief, to schedule..., just to make sure that what comes from this young man is a compliment on the part of the government – on the part of the government. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't tell me completely, counselor, because I can tell you that everything that's been able..., the last legislature isn't an exhibition: listen to me, everything that's been approved in plenary and in committee..., I'll tell you the percentage: it was a percentage that went up from 70_per_cent, everything that's fallen. Why? Because we didn't have, power, a government doing the work that was close to him under the responsibility of governing, which is not small, is very much. But if they take it, they're the fan. And if you don't, leave the bench and make it another, that you can make it better. And in this sense, the last thing was to be very vigilant, too. Look, we'll be vigilant, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving, we'll be loving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.87.0	Thank you, Mr. Castle. Next, to fix his position, has the word, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party, Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.88.0	Thank you, President. Let us move forward to position ourselves on the motion that we are debating from Catalonia to Comú Pode, but we will also do so in relation to the next one, from the Socialist Group and Unites pour Avançar, and we will do so in this unique way. In the first place, say Catalonia's spokesman in Comú We can: "This young man..., I would say that the two motions have basically three points. The Socialist Group's is much more extensive, it's much more concrete, but basically there are three elements that are fundamental to these two motions. A first, which is parallel: the defense of the generality's competences in the field of social security and the defense of the professionalism of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, to which we will enthusiastically support. We are absolutely in agreement with the defence of the competence of citizen security on the part of the Government of Catalonia. And so, as we agree, and we want this to be complete and we want this to be so, what we do more is to warn the councilman and warn the President of the General that if this has been at risk at some point, it is precisely the result of his actions and his statements. When the councillor casts doubt on the performance of the Mossos, when the president of the Generality gives instructions because the Mossos act in a certain sense, when two days after we see that it is carved for fifteen hours a highway without defending the rights of the citizens who want to circulate freely on this highway is - is - when the doubts arise that the direction of the thing is due with due diligence and with the necessary professionalism. Therefore, if the competence of the Generality in matters of citizen security is at risk, it is because of the performance of the Councillor and the President of the Generality. Two more elements that appear in this young man. First: plant-stocking, and here I already include parallel not only Squad Mosses Cos but also firefighters. Obviously after years of freezing of the seedlings resulting from the concrete circumstances of the crisis and the need to adjust the Generality's expenses to the available entries, there was this freezing of seedlings: the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra until last year, which does not extend the template with fifty effect. And, therefore, it is essential to continue the program that had been in place a few years ago in order to complete the deployment of the Squadron Mosses with all its effectiveness. And also with regard to the Bombers, and as these days are badly seen with the outbound wave that is taking place, with the hours of the effects that have been available there is not enough to cover the totality of the service. And, therefore, it is also absolutely essential to complete the bombardment. And a third element, a third element that there are some that are a lot of common sense and that we should not be debating, because it would have been possible to solve, such as the outfitting, the outfitting, both for the Mossos Cos and for the bombers, right? And that in a young man it is necessary to do, in addition, the emphasis on the climate zone in which they develop their functions in order to adapt the clothing to the temperatures of those areas, man, I think it should be above, but it is not. It is not because we know that, in this sense, there are actually deficiencies and some of them are important. Therefore, we will also support all of this group of measures, which, in addition to the renewal, I would like to make an inventory of – I believe that the Socialist Group's motion also makes this clear – the renewal of the mobile park, especially the Bombers Cos, in order to ensure, on one hand, the security in the exercise of its own functions, but also in order to guarantee the efficiency of the service to which they are intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.89.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Then, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, the French deputy Viaplana has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.90.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, counselors, deputies and deputies... Today is my first intervention from this Faristol; therefore, allow me to support my first words to political prisoners, exiles and reprisals, as well as to denounce the Spanish State for this injustice and its lack of democracy. For what it does to the young man that we're debating..., and you go for it that our group will give support to its totality. The first point, in which the defence of the generality's competences is called for, respects the citizen's safety and the professionalism of the Squadron Mosses Cos in its task of controlling public order, as well as the second point, in which the support for the Squadron Mosses Cos and the Bombers Cos is manifested, might seem to be a few transit points in another situation. But when we hear these two points, they are as important as the rest, because, as you yourself said to your question, "The Squad and the Generality Bombers are a foundational structure and are in the spotlight. And that's exactly why it's so fundamental that from the Parliament, its sovereignty of all the people of Catalonia, we show support for our security. Referring to the third point, which is where this support is detailed. The Government has announced its intention to shortly convene a new 750-moment promotion and 250 firefighters to deal with the downsizing that has taken place in the past few years. The negotiation with the trade union representatives of the Mossos and Bombers is moving forward in the right direction, but it is not closed. And that's why I think we need to be curious and not because of the parliamentary intervention that goes wrong. For what he does to Bombers, the proposal of agreement presented for the Department of Interior to the negotiating group, and which are pending response, starts from the recognition of the faults of the body; tanmateix, as it could not be otherwise. And it has as its objective the normalization of the situation of the Bomber Cos by the year 2022 measuring the revenue of a thousand new effect, as well as the implementation of other better organizational and work paths, as well as the renovation of the wardrobe, the equipment, the mobile park and the infrastructure. We understand that this proposal is the result of the joint work of all the negotiators, both of the representatives of the Interior Department and of the trade union organizations of the Bombers, with the shared will to overcome a complex management stage and recover quality standards in the installations and equipment, which together with human resources are the essential elements to be able to exercise the task that the body has to develop. For what he does to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, last September the trade union representatives proposed a joint proposal with fifteen demands. When we follow the negotiations we see that it has advanced in most of these, since twelve of the fifteen points are already resolved or are in lives of resolution. There are three points, participation in the General Bureau of the Public Service, the recovery of the social welfare funds and the recovery of the eating valleys, which do not depend directly on the Interior and which is waiting for the negotiations that the unions make to the General Bureau of the Public Service. Moreover, last week the trade union representatives incorporated a new point to demand the equipping of the working conditions with the functional Bomber Cos, and the department expressed its willingness to work to achieve this objective in all those conditions that are homologable between the bodies of firefighters and movers. Mirin, I'm a new deputy. In these months of the legislature I carry after a lot of all of you, since I think you can always learn from everyone. Deputy Nuet, as much today as last week's inquiry, is what they appreciate, for their sake and the way to defend their arguments. Now, with my short parliamentary experience, let me share a reflection. When I was a little boy, I learned that to water the camps, I needed to make a good management, that it translates into the camp, that it means clean and keep the reef so that it reaches the full extent possible, and then respect the hours of water that each one has assigned, since if all the stufflers are opened at the same time, the stream is left and the ones that are further down are left without water. This story of how to water in public management can be equated with good planning and execution of a premise. For this reason I think it would be a good practice for the motions to be accompanied by a presuppositional proposal, i.e., to specify where the resources are coming from. You said last week that the government is making an extra effort to solve the problem we are discussing, and I share this demand, but at the same time I also want to increase the resources for education, for sanitation, for access to telecommunications from all the peoples of the country, because everyone can get home without playing their life on a municipal road, because the mountain page can continue its activity, etc. That is to say, I wish we could approve a premise so that we can give solutions to as many problems as we have in our country. And to do that, I'm sure we'll all act responsibly. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.91.0	Thank you, Mr. Viaplana. Finally, it's the turn of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and deputy Jordi Munell has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.92.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, public that follows us, good late. Well, we have already announced that we will vote in favour of this proposal by the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. In fact, as a parliamentary group that supports the Government, we also have the intervention and announcement made by the Honourable Councillor Buch in the question of the past Ple. Since last June, when the councillor and the government..., it has formalized, therefore, the government's hold, it has continued the negotiations that have already begun, both with the security and emergency collections, the Generality's Squadron and Bombers, negotiations that..., I would like to say that in the context of its parliament it has not gone too far than we are in a situation of normality, neither of government nor of parliamentary normality: they are negotiations that are produced and they have occurred in a context that I would say in an exceptional political situation. Mr. Nuet was talking to us about hot week or hot policy. More than week, we carry more than a year of warm politics, with a situation that is not normal, with a situation of state of exception. It is not possible to remember the economic intervention of the Generality, the application of 155, the dismissal of the legitimate government, among them the Councillor of Interior, Joaquim Forn, to whom from here we send an impeccable record, which is unjustly undertaken, but we also pass... [[Greetings.]] But we have also passed, since more than a year ago, to mourn the action of the security bodies – Mossos d'Esquadra, in the case of August – to criminalize them on October 2017, and, therefore, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, for the sake of someone, has also been in the eye, in the eye of politics and in the eye of an evilly fair and highly politicized justice. This, moreover, in a context, as has already been reiterated with my predecessors, of the presupposition 2018 extended, as before, of economic intervention, but more so with a few years of crisis, and all the worse with what is already repeated: the permanent fiscal deficit of the State towards Catalonia. In fact, today we are talking about the case of safety and emergency, but before we talked about it because of childhood and youth, but also about education and sanitation. Still wrong there, still wrong in the lack of sufficient resources to be able to cope with everything that is needed, and all these areas – all – are needed, security and emergencies too. Therefore, effectively, it is a heated policy, a policy that faces a need to deal with many aspects of Catalonia's social life with very few resources or with insufficient resources that are lacking in it from a central state. I have mentioned Councillor Forn, I would also like to mention the rest of political prisoners, the rest of political exiles, and especially those companies that are in the middle of fame to denounce the flagrant violation of rights, of human rights, on behalf of the Constitutional Court of the Kingdom of Spain. In this context, Counsellor Buch announced the dam of negotiations. He also announced to us the Government's firm intention to incorporate 250 firefighters in a first phase, and to reach up to 1,000, and 1,000 squadron moves, too, immediately. Counselor Buch also announced the immediate continuation of negotiations with these collections. In fact, he announced that with the Mossos d'Esquadra there had been the order of thirty-seven meetings, already, with different participants to advance in all those points that they want to improve, and especially with that proposal of fifteen points that the Mossos collection had arrived. As my predecessor has also said, of these fifteen points in these times around twelve can be considered, so already in lives of solution and three are also in these moments in lives of negotiation. Therefore, in this sense there is the firm will of the Government. In the case of the Bombers, he spoke and explained: more than said work meetings with the Bombers collection to also seek solutions to the different claims, always with the will and the recognition of the Government of the heavy shortcomings that both of us suffer from before I have exposed. Specifically, in the case of the Bombers, the advisor already explained to us that since June, and this late especially, and despite this economic situation, has allocated 5.3_millions to improve equipment. Specifically, he spoke, therefore, of the acquisition of mascares, thermographic cameras, handles, campaign costumes, caps and renovation, as well as of urban rescue equipment and water rescue equipment. And also that in the next few months there was already the bidding of up to a hundred, two heavy-weight rural bomb trucks and other vehicles, as well as discharge material, equipment of air ampoules, thermal chambers, etc. Therefore, specific government will. And in the case of the Mossos d'Esquadra equally, in the forecast of the presuppost 2019...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.93.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.94.0	...there's a specific match to equip this thing, for the faults that are recognizable. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.95.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to pronounce on the papers, it's Mr. Joan Josep Nuet's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.96.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, I think we've been talking to parliamentary groups that support the government. We have incorporated an item from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and we have traded four items from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We agreed, and so I think it's time to press the green button. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.97.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling for a vote... yes, ma'am Sirvent, I'm asking for the word for...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.98.0	To ask for the vote separate from point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.99.0	Tell me, what's the point?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.100.0	Number one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.101.0	One, all right. Any more separate voting petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] [[Long break.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on this motion. A separate vote has been requested on point 1. We will vote first on this point and then on the rest of the motion. So, let's start the vote, let's start the vote on point 1. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 119 votes to 3, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 119 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of squadron and bomber movers]] [[302-00042/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the situation of squadrons and bombers, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. [[Widow's remorse.]] To expose it has the word of Congressman Carles Castillo. And to the rest of the deputies and deputies they ask that if they have to abandon the hemicicle, they do so with silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.102.0	Good afternoon, everybody's back. Allow me to begin by saying that I will move a little language so that I do not break the right roll that has been made so far in the other youth in this of the twelve measures of fifteen of MosSOS approved, basically because at half an hour or three-quarters, counselor, to say this in your parliament, the representation of the Generality was rising from the table of negotiation of MosSOS. I'm not going in there anymore – I'm not going in there anymore. I'll just say that Mr. Rodriguez was right in his statement. « Sad times, when it is necessary to fight for the obvious, said Dürrenmatt, Swiss-Germany, eternal aspirant to the Nobel. And so it is – so it is – because it has come to an extreme situation in which we have two bodies, the Squadron Cushion and the Bomber Cushion, on the edge, absolutely, of the structural col·lapse. Continued retailing to Mossos: external payments, foreign hours – let the people know that the extra hour of a move is 2,9_euros, 2,9_euros the extra hour–, I am from the agreements of 2008, the days of props, dispossessions, retailing... Certainly, the police word has presumption of innocence in a jutjat, but not for the Generality. Lack of respect, or that which Mossos considers disrespectful; early retirement, which is already to be looked at – local police already have it – ; problems with the material media; steals – it has been said here: it is incredible that we have to talk about that there is no theft in cold winter areas or that there is no change in the theft – ; accumulated problems of lack of staffing, everyone knows it, with problems of security in the street; complaints to many municipalities by many mayors and many mayors, problems with tourism, and we are at a level 4_on_5, councillor. What does the squadron's staff say, too? "We can't guarantee security at the level of advanced European democracies, "the worst moment that the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is living in its history, "we have to shield the police from all intents of politics. They're asking us all, including us. And, as for Bombers, so, well, this, as Raimon says, is not the world's theme, the theme of Bombers: closed parks, such as Calonge, Ascó, Ulldecona – which, by the way, Ulldecona dona serve the Senia, Godall, Galera, Freginals and Ports –; Calaf also closed; reducing the minimum number of parks to all the rest of the bomber parks, it is like, like not reaching the minimum number of parks, which is reducing all the minimum number of parks to all the parks in Catalonia: through a circular and an order, changing another order that was made by the generation of 2008. I'll just explain, too, how things work in a fire. When there's a fire in a house, two firefighters, two people, go into the fire, while two firefighters or firefighters plus, two other companies, stay out, one with the bomb and one with the bomb. Clearly, they're saying it's a multiple of four. If we pass, in some parks from four to three, or from eight to seven, then you can hear how the boundary situation is. This unites with the twenty-three times that the mask tape that goes with the helmet jumps, which implies that... the mask ensures that the firefighters, when they enter the fire, do not become intoxicated from a fire. The vehicles: a few days ago the wheel of a truck went off. There is a really worrying danger situation, personal danger, because they are even failing all agreements at the level of safety and health at work. And what we want to ask is: if you unfortunately passed something, counselor, who will get involved? Who's going to take over? The plants are really desperate, exhausted, unmotivated, some anxious, depressed and down, because they are people who take it with vocation, they believe their work very much. With this young man, company and company, deputy and deputy, we have tried to make a gesture of the hands of as many groups as possible, even all the groups that support the government, so that it is a pressure that is an authentic pot to burst, so as to raise morale and so as to try to deepen the general situation that we have encountered. And in this sense, therefore, we have tried to put into practice questions that were very important for the Bombers and the Squad Mousses. In the first place, that the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is not instrumental by any one, that it is acting among the margins that the law, that the democratic legal order previews in its conjunction. And then there is a series of measures to recover, so, a whole series of rights that have been damaged and that somehow we consider to affect in a direct or indirect way the public service of citizen security. We've tried to be as building as possible, we've tried to accept as many items as possible and as much participation as possible, and I think we've done enough, we've done enough. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return, now, to defend the papers presented by parliamentary groups. And in the first place there is the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Montserrat Fornells.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.104.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. We find ourselves, again, with a debate of a new young lady about moves and bombers, the second of this late. Therefore, many of the arguments that have been put forward in the debate of the past Member would also serve, would be valid for the debate of this Member. First of all, from our group we would like to make a reassessment of the task of completing the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the Cos de Bombers, and its professionalism. They have been difficult years, complicated by two things, with a lack of effect and with the best that are needed in materials, vehicle parks and firefighter parks. I would like to appreciate the willingness to negotiate and to reach the agreements of the proposed deputy, the deputy Castillo. We thank him, on behalf of our group, for having accepted the papers we have submitted to him. The government's, the department's and our group's will is to reverse the complicated situation and always with the will to reach agreements and negotiate with the different unions without giving up the board. In fact, for what he does to Mossos, he has reached agreement, we have seen, of solution, in twelve of the fifteen labor demands after thirty-seven meetings. And he came to terms with the forecast to summon seven hundred nine squadron moves, the best in materials, or the payment, among others, of the Àgora device. And, for what he does to the Bombers, he has come to the proposal of agreement to implement the Project Bombers 2025 to develop those concrete actions of the Pla stratègique de Bombers, as has been granted the proposal to summon a thousand nine places of bombers for the next four years, and also the best in material, clothing and mobile park among other themes, after the dissension meetings. For all this, it is very important to approve the presupposition of 2019, in order to have the necessary resources to deal with and carry out these agreements, and to be able to implement them. Both the motion of Catalonia in Comú Pode, which we have approved, like this, are motions that seek what all parliamentary groups, the government and the department want, that is to achieve better to have a high-quality, model and efficient Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squads. With regard to this concrete motion, from our group we will approve most of the twenty-and-a-half points of this, some of which we cannot support. Obviously, with the time I have I can't get into the detail of these twenty-one points. We are in favour, for example, of rejecting any instrumentalization of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra by some unionist parties, which question their neutrality and push for constant disdain. We will vote in favour of some points because they are already a reality, because they have already been elaborated or because they are already due to end, such as for example to draw up a plan of rock of the Mossos d'Esquadra and Bombers, pending their implementation when the presuppost 2019 is approved, or for example to have a professional career plan. We will also vote in favour of other points because we agree, for example, on the issue of ensuring that our wear complements the climatic needs of both genders' places and physical characteristics, and also on the issue of implementing the agreements already signed to recover the rights and conditions of work. There's a few points we can't give support to. As for example the point dissected, because we understand that it is not the competence of this Parliament to enter into the detail of the internal procedures of organization and action of the units of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. Nor can we give support to point 14, since the functions of the professional and voluntary firefighters are already regulated, and approving this point could assume controversy between the two collections. Nor can we give support to point 21, since medals or decorations always comply with strictly operational and command criteria, and so as to recognize meritorious actions or actions that have been completed during the year. And unfortunately, we can't also give support to point number 3, since as was initially proposed our group gave support to it, but with the transaction to which the PSC has arrived with Ciutadans unfortunately we can't give support. As I said before, most of the points of this young man will be voted for, so they can thrive. And, finally, let's hope that among all of us, we work to improve the conditions of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and of the Bombers, that they are a basic and essential public service, a key country structure, to guarantee the security and the emergencies of our country, and that we all want them to have the effects and the tools needed to follow a model of reference and exemplary, as it is. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.105.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.106.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs... you started, Mr. Castillo, talking about the good work that had been done in negotiating this issue, and referring to the language being moved. I also thank him very much, I thank him for all that he has had here and all that he has had during the negotiation of this issue, and for the ability we have all had to prepare a motion that puts black on white many of the things that are already being done by the department and others that can't or will not be done in future assumptions, because there is no presupposition available. That's to say that this young man you're presenting to us refers to many of the commitments to which Councilman Buch in the interrogations he held last week, both from Mr Nuet and his own, was compromised, huh? In fact, as this circumstance passes, we will vote in favour of fifteen of the twenty-one points, almost, almost three-quarters of the points. We were about to vote on the third point, my partner has already said, but finally, in front of the deal with other political groups, we can't vote on it. In which we are absolutely in agreement is in the first point of his motion: the rebuilding of the instrumentation of the Squadron Mosses. We are absolutely – absolutely, absolutely – in agreement. Union parties pass by in the morning, late and late denouncing and questioning the neutrality of the Squad Mosos. They come to you as a political police, when you're talking about an absolutely democratic police, and a police force that has exemplary behavior, that would already want for all the police operating around us. It is an institution that, moreover, the citizenry has well understood. In many opinions it is the second most valued institution in the country. He was telling us about the overtime price, Mr. Castillo, and he told us that there were 2 euros and I'm calling. 2016 daylight hours were paid at 16.31, and the nights of the base move, at 19.55, and after the bid, it's still different. He talks to us about a platoon of rock, a platoon of rock that is in force. The Àgora provision, the main part, the November same name, was paid, as provided for by Councillor Buch in the plenary last week, EUR 3.5_million; the last tranche of the salary equipment pending from the agreement of 2008, EUR 6.7_million that will be paid in the coming year because they have been incorporated in the premise, or the Q5 quadrant of the body, so demanded, which is already in force in transit. We're talking about inversions. My company told them about the investments that had been made: 5,3_million in Bombers. The year you see will be auctioned assumptions to buy trucks, to buy gloves, to buy boats, to buy assisted breathing equipment, etc. In summary: there are twenty-one points that contain the main demands of the unions of the movements and of the bombers, known claims and agreements for the Department of Interior, announced in their parliament for the councillor Buch, as well as the circumstances of exception that saw the department. This department has the legitimate councillor hired and in the name of Lledoners [[applause]] , hired and out of the blue like our companies Rull, Counsellor Turull or the president of my parliamentary group, in Jordi Sánchez, difficult circumstances for the country, constantly threatened for unionist parties that show day by day that they do not understand what this is about democracy. In democracy, the people have a sort of government, and it takes some proper elections to get this government out and put another one, if the people seem to change the government. It cannot be that we are continually threatened with the application of what kind of sacrosanct rule that allows governments to be suspended, parliaments to be suspended because they have done what the citizen asked of them: put up ballot boxes and let them vote. [[Greetings.]] Circumstances and threats to be carried out in the Squadre Mosso Cos, the value of which has been demonstrated on repeated occasions, and which is continuously instrumentalized for the Unionist parties. It doesn't help people in your pocket and it puts everyone's freedom in danger. Gentlemen of the PP and lords of Ciutadans, let the Mossos do his work, in this way they will guarantee our freedom and it will make a better country because its citizens will live there better. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mr Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.108.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... well, there are no MPs... MPs... no, I'm sorry, there are advisors; counselors, advisors... [[Widow's remorse.]] In the first place, thank Mr Carlos Castillo, deputy of the PSC, for the proposal he brings us, for this motion. Obviously, someone here has said that I include, power, all that are the demands of two bodies, that if they demand it and demand it, it must be because they lack it, and in this we fully agree, even though there are many who do not yet understand it. I would also say, to some who have spoken at this late turn, that democracy is much more than a word, and it is more complex than what we have heard here explain. I mean, we'd have a whole monogram, time is what it is and I won't go in. It seems to me that we haven't done it several times before, but it's different points in this sense. Look, we've been able to deal, and we appreciate the group proposing to have all of those transactions and items that come together in the right direction, improve and bring light – and bring light – and compromise. As I said before, also, to the councillor, it is not only what we do from the legislative power, but there has to be an execution in the canton, an execution power that does its work, which is of responsibility, because if not all this work that we do here in a plenary or in a commission would not serve as a king. Look, we've introduced papers, as well as... like when we were talking about the rock platter. Both in the field of Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. Look, when work is done, when there are no faults, the collectors don't ask for it either. I will give you an example, power, of the unrealized work, of those policies of prediction that have had different governments that have neither worked nor made any effort. Miri, in the province of Girona: Torroella, Calonge, Santa Coloma, tanks, firefighters' parks closed for staff absence. There's a demand and a job that's not done. Parks that are below the threshold. I could also have the councillor's eye under these parks, which are in power in a pre-existing situation they've already closed down. Parks that are below minimums: Olot, Figueres, Girona, Lloret de Mar. I can make a list of all those who have closed, too: Torelló, Ulldecona, Ascó, Vandellòs, Hospitallet de l'Infant, Cardona... Do you want to follow? When things go well, when here you go and there is this talk that seems to be going well, from a government and from groups that give you shelter, to be able to do the job that is not done... Listen to me, with words... we want done. We are tired, after six years, almost seven years, of words, of non-politics, of seeing all that work that we carry to an end both in a plenary, as I said in the other intervention, as in the same commissions, and what we want are results. A proposal that also... Fixi's, someone here said they couldn't accept point 3, when we talked about it being a minimum – a minimum – the extra hour push between 30 and 35_per_cent. It is worth saying – it is to say – that in these negotiations that are held from the council with the unions it seems that there was a proposal from the council that spoke of a 32. Is that a lot of trouble? Was it so hard to approve that point? We understand that he did not volunteer, and where he did not volunteer, we see neither work nor end. Like I told you one day, who's going on, years old. But do you know what's going on? That after we have collections that suffer from it, suffer from the mismanagement of a councillor, suffer from the mismanagement of many years, of other governments too, not only the fault of the present government, we have come from this warning. And, look, the most difficult of all: sometimes, when you see that when you look at the cosos de mossos d'Esquadra doing its work, the door ends with responsibility and decorum, then you see persecutions, or you see signs, or you see a department of internal matters that you can have arbitrariness. How come we don't all go through the same disciplinary rule as the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad I, look, it could be longer. I won't be there, the man is what he is. As I said, thanking the group for all the ideas it has accepted, they understand that we were on the line of working, improving and adapting...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.109.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.110.0	...two things they deserve this day and we're in their corner. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.111.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to fix his position, he has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.112.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies... a few days ago here in Parliament, they came to see us Mossos and Bombers. We had meetings with each other and with each other. On the part of Mossos, there were all the unions – all of them – and also a group of organized team moves because they're a little bit full of retail accumulation and they're, we might say, an independent group that's showing up the past few weeks. And the Bombers also took action in front of Parliament, forceful action, and we were also able to talk to some of their union representatives. I got out worried about these meetings; it's not the first time I've talked to movement and fire unions, but I got out especially worried about them because I saw them all the way out of patience, with an already extreme degree of situation that really deserved a parliamentary response. And, therefore, the Mossos and the Bombers also know today that those meetings and the help they asked the parliamentary groups for have answers, and that parliamentary diplomacy is a good thing that at this time that they are running down, but it would be good if we could get it back, because parliamentary diplomacy is a lot, especially when the government does not have an absolute parliamentary majority. Deputy Castillo is a good example of parliamentary diplomacy. He's a working deputy, with whom he can talk, with whom he can come to terms. And, therefore, I would like to congratulate him on the motion he has put forward, because he is a well-traveled, well-worked and, yes, it is good news for the trade union of Mossos and the trade union of Bombers. And, therefore, I believe that he has spoken, too, with us has done so. And we will give full support to all points: on the political side, which concerns us, on the labour side, on the part of resources and on all the parts of this good young man who presents us today, and that parliamentary diplomacy, at least for one day, has a victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.113.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of the deputy Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.114.0	Well, good afternoon. This proposal submitted by the PSC and the one submitted by Catalonia in Comú are part of many other points which are also being presented in this plenary and which relate to public services. These proposals highlight the policy that has led the Generality's successor governments. We are talking about a policy that has consisted of, and will also consist of, while there is no change in political will and there is no overcoming of the constraints of the financial markets by dismantling the public sector and favouring the private sector at the cost of containing expenditure on austerity policies that are a provocation for the popular classes. And there are things that are minimal. In the case of the Bombers, we have seen a lot of different unions agree on their claims, and this means that we have reached the limit. These public expenditure content policies have very bad consequences, but they do not only have consequences that affect public service workers, but also affect the working class, a working class that does not only have to work much more to collect even less at the end of each month, but also more alive at first hand a precariousness of public services that has posed no matter what we know, or what we know, as the welfare state. If we follow this path of support of an unsustainable system, we will never get out of the situation that today we are patenting. What they call structural changes, what they call solutions that are urgent and that are transgressors, they call these situations before a situation that we do not resolve with this motion or with thousands of pre-press motions. We place the workers who defend the collective rights to continue mobilising because the declared commitments arising from these motions, in this case, must never represent a burden on collective demands. Bearing in mind that this proposal speaks of the Squadron Mosses, we did not want to lose the chance to talk about the safety model. The prevailing security model is a reactive model and is a model contrary to human rights. It is the model of security that has decided to develop this government and that is based on a concept of security that precisely serves this system that systematically violates the collective rights. And Mr. Roquer, fighting fascism, defending people before the possibility of a denunciation is also defending democracy, as we did October 1. We find ourselves in front of security policies that form part of a way of conceiving politics and are subject to this conception. And if they're somehow instrumentalizing the Squad Mosos, it's to defend a system that promotes injustice and inequality. It may well be that more police is not the solution. 85_percent of criminal offences, according to data from the same squad mosses, are property crimes and not against people, crimes related to poverty and poverty. It is easy to see how the differential factor in relation to the security of the barrels was closely related to the per capita income. And so, above all, above all that it takes to provide the right and the need of the people, things as simple as pa, strenght and work. So I'm sure we'll improve the safety model. The previous proposal of Catalonia in Comú also praised the professionalism of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, its precise task of controlling the public order, and we cannot disagree more. In the streets we have experienced a very different reality, a reality of which all people who fight against the tyranny of established power are well aware. We're living broken rape, an act that's attack and that's non-containment. Do you remember the bomber on the ground handcuffed in this Parliament? We are experiencing a systemic violation of human rights, of the principles of proportionality and opportunity, technologically unnecessary actions, violation of protocols, unidentified shotguns, bangs of the waist up, a way to act concretely and premeditated on the basis of very concrete objectives. And we're not talking about winged parties, we're talking about a systematic way of acting and a way that responds to a very concrete police model: monitoring, tracking social movements, identifications, arbitrary and random arrests, criminal attestations. All folded on the basis of a rape report that the current government is the main responsible and protagonist, a model that has very concrete consequences for our companies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.115.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.116.0	...for our comings– agreed, Mr. President, I ended– and for our friends who organize themselves to try to overcome all forms of oppression. Neither with fucking shots, nor with violence, nor with repression, will all those we have longed for justice and freedom against the regression of rights and freedoms that we are living.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.117.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the papers has the word, again, the deputy Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.118.0	Following the line begun for the company Nuet, I would like to thank all the Members and all the Members who participated in this debate, all of them, but especially, if I may, Ferran Roquer, of Junts per Catalunya ; Montse Fornells, d'Esquerra Republicana ; Jean Castel, de Ciutadans, and compañero Joan Josep Nuet, d'En Comú. They all defend their positions, naturally, defend what they think, but they always think above all of the common good, of the citizenry. And I want to thank them especially. And Laura Méndez, too, if I may, and I apologize for not warning her, that it's parliamentary relations, that even from a serious point of view, the debate with the council is easier. In the big, big companies, in the more essential, we've been able to get along and get enough of our hands on security issues. I thank them all. We have shown that, if we want, there are essential fears in which we are able to agree. Today, such important issues as concrete questions of citizen security. I think it's a message of some hope to the citizenry. Thank you all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.119.0	Mrs. Fornells, why ask me the word? Separate vote?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.120.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote on points 3, 4, 14, 15, 17, 17 bis and 21, which can be voted in block.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.121.0	All right. Let's go back, please, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.122.0	The 3, 4, 14, 15, 17, 17 bis and 21, and they can vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.123.0	All right. Any more separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? So we will vote first on this bloc that the Member has asked for, that is, points 3, 4, 14, 15, 17, 17 bis and 21, yes? [[Pause.]] All right, so let's start voting... [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Yes, say, Mrs. Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.124.0	Yes, in order to ask for a separate vote from point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.125.0	Point one?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.126.0	Number one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.127.0	All right. So, we'll vote first on point 1, then on the block that Congresswoman Fornells asked for, and then we'll vote on the rest of the points in the motion. So let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1 was approved by 120 votes to three, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on the block of points 3, 4, 14, 15, 17, 17 bis and 21. The vote begins. These points were approved by 61 votes to 59, with 3 abstentions. Let's move on, now, to vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was adopted by 120 votes to none, with 3 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the adoption of schools]] [[302-00043/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the adoption of schools, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and, to expose it, has the word Mrs Sonia Sierra. [[Widow's remorse.]] He asks them that if they have to abandon the hemicicle, they vagnate it in silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.128.0	Good afternoon. MPs, MPs, members of the government, parliamentary staff, late in the day, I spent a lot of time listening to the information that came to me about indoctrination. It's a kind of situation that generates a lot of grief, but it's also very distressing for people who report, and always, always, the same petition: "Please, don't make my name out, because I don't want my son to be appointed. Because this is Catalonia today. Who is going to speak against the current model of education, what they say is that it is a model of success, it is appointed and it is established, as it has passed to the families who have asked for the most hours of Spanish, as it has passed to the Losada Year, President of the Assembly for a bilingual school, which has been the same department that has filtered its ID, its address and mobile phone, and which is already receiving unwanted tricks. And that's what happened this morning at the Autonomous University, when the brave young men of S'End have rejected death threats. [[Greetings.]] All my support. All my support for Ana Losada, all my support for those brave families who are fighting for a better education and all my support for the young people of S'ha Finat. And a very clear message to the fascists: "They won't shut us up. [[Greetings.]] Now, one year after that late, when I said that I had spent so much time listening to tricks, indoctrination messages, a report of more than three hundred pages has come out on, systemically and with very clear methodology, there are more than five hundred cases of indoctrination. Let me give you some examples. In Catalonia there are websites of educational centres with manifesto, with political proclamations; there are school centres with party symbolism; there are directors of centres who make an act to give the keys to which the councilwoman was then to give, so that they can open the school centres to make an illegal reference, and there is AMPA that is coordinated with separatist commands to fill the schools of creatures so that they can open them to make an illegal reference. But do you know what you've done to Catalonia? But do you know where we got to Catalonia? In Catalonia, children have been used to do an illegal act and in Catalonia, in a public university, students are threatened with death. In this they have converted their revolution of the sobries. You will smile among yourselves, for what you do is threaten us with death. And another of the themes behind this report is the subject of text books. And in Catalonia – and whatever I've got a textbook you know – it's about the Catalan-Aragonese Crown, even though it never existed; it's about Catalonia as if it were a country equivalent to Germany or France, in terms of explaining that it's an autonomous community. Spain does not exist and, when it speaks of Spain, it is like a different reality and, normally, facing Catalonia. And, on the other hand, they're text books where the presence of the woman is very scarce and it doesn't match the files we've got at the length of the story. And they're text books where there's never another relationship that's not straight and that hides homosexuality, even in cases like Lorca and Cernuda, that's essential to being able to hear their trajectory. What we want are texts that have scientific and terminological rigour, and with an adequate presence of the woman. And what answers have we received after a year in denouncing such things? The only answer we have received from the trade unions, the FAPAC and the other parties is that we want to ban debate in the classroom. Of course, this is absurd, we've never said anything like it. In classrooms, debate can be encouraged. What you can't do in the classroom is humiliate the sons of the cops. In the classrooms, debate can be encouraged, and political slogans cannot be launched. And the debate can be encouraged, and what cannot be done is to fill it with yellow bonds. Therefore, we present this motion, which we ask for something as revolutionary as the law of the book to be complied with, to be books with strict terminology and with an adequate presence of the woman. Very revolutionary everything. And, well, as we already know each other and know what they're going to say when they come here, so I'm already taking advantage of it and I'm lying. This is not about going against teachers and teachers, who, by the way, I am a teacher; this is not about ending the debate in the classroom. And, surprise, it's not about going against Catalan or Catalonia, because we're Catalans. I know it's hard for them to understand, but we're Catalans. The families who report indoctrination are Catalan, the families who ask for more hours of Spanish in the classroom are Catalan. [[Greetings.]] And the more than 1_million Catalans who voted Citizens for our proposals also in education...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.129.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.130.0	... they are also Catalans – yes, I finish, President –, no matter how much President Torra tries to call us "the taradian beasts", whether Mrs Forcadell says that we are not the people of Catalonia or that separatist deputies deny us humanity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.131.0	Congresswoman, time's up. To position herself on the issues, she has the word, now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.132.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Councillor, councillor, deputies and deputies. Go ahead and condemn our firm to any advice from children, from adolescents who may have felt humiliated, have suffered seriously, or disturbed by comments that may have been heard in the classroom, for their origin, for their social condition, for reasons of gender, for ideological reasons and, obviously, also for the profession of their peers. Whatever the reason is, we condemn any notice. But we also condemn any teacher's advice. And here you will agree with me, Mrs. Sierra, that the leader of your party, Mr. Albert Rivera, when he published and disseminated to the social media the photographs, names and surnames of many teachers, seems to us that it did not, precisely, contribute to finding a solution or coexistence; that was a highly reckless, irresponsible act that the only one that he did was to feed the conflict and the crisis. And, therefore, we also condemn this type of assignment to teachers. [[Greetings.]] But let's go back to saying one more time, what we are asking is to preserve the school of political conflict, not to contribute to putting living together in educational centres at risk. We want to work for this coexistence, also at schools and institutes, and for this reason we reject any kind of political instrumentation of the school. We hope that the government will do educational policies, work to improve educational success, educational equity, but that they will not, neither the government nor any political party, politics with the schools; it seems to me that it would be very irresponsible. We believe that education is a fundamental tool for the construction of a fully democratic, socially cohesive society, and from here it is necessary to guarantee the right to education with respect to everyone, with independence from their ideas, without discrimination of any kind. And it's obvious that school isn't neutral, no one is neutral, neither are the teachers, and surely they don't have to be neutral. The school must be respectful of the plurality of its own educational community, it must be participatory, it must consolidate the values propitious to a democratic society, it must exculpate any indoctrination and it must guarantee respect for coexistence. And these are precisely some of the guiding principles of Catalonia's Education Law and we also want to put them in value. We also want to reiterate our confidence in the education administration, in the professional, the teachers of this country, but we believe that the department must certainly further promote confidence in the education system. That is why it is important that where complaints have been made, where complaints are made, the appropriate explanations are always given on the basis of reports prepared by the Educational Inspectorate or by the same educational centres, and, in this way, we encourage the resolution of conflicts, which obviously, as in all cases, does not exist, in the lives and procedures provided for by the same Educational Administration. In this case, Ciutadans barricades different questions. This is what we have been talking about, and here I also want to thank Mrs Sonia Sierra for having accepted three of our five papers on this line, which seems to us to improve much the content of the original proposal, and with which, therefore, we will vote in favour, but it also introduces other topics that we share; for example, the desirability of vetting for the adequacy of textbooks or teaching materials to the ages of the student and to the curriculum. It seems logical to us. And that, we understand, means no ex-ante control of the materials, nor is it incompatible with the possibility of debate that the teaching team considers to be adents, nor is it incompatible with competition work. We also share the need to introduce changes in the teaching materials, precisely to make visible what Congresswoman Sierra said, right? , these contributions of many women to history, to philosophy, to science, which have gone unnoticed. It seems to us that it is a work pending, that it is of justice and that it can also contribute to advancing in the matter of co-education, and, therefore, also highlight female referents in very different disciplines, right? And for all this, so we will vote mostly on the joint motion, with the exception of two points, point 4 and point 9, in which we will abstain. And here I take advantage, President, of asking for the separate vote, but I hope that the different political forces, all of us, are fully responsible for preserving the school of political conflict. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.133.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Bernat Sole's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.134.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, say that in politics there are three values that can never be lost: the value of truth, the value of coherence and the value of dignity. These three concepts mark the red line through which no political argument should ever cross. But I didn't feel sorry, Mrs. Sierra, I don't think I'm closing in on your claim that I've accused you of missing these three values, I don't think I'm closing in on you because I won't be the one to judge you. We have an educational community that has enough criteria to value their arguments. Well, more than arguments, continuing attacks on a model of Catalan school that represents, in a sense of doubt, the reality of a different country and compromises with all the causes that each one considers appropriate. An educational community to which you would want silent, silent, immersed in this false neutrality that you defend and behind which there is, in doubt, your indoctrination objective. Yes, Mrs. Sierra, I'm back to say it, and I'm going to do it as many times as I am, your indoctrination spirit, because silence is also doctrine; the elimination of criteria, the cancellation of opinion, and the disappearance of dialogue and debate are also doctrines. And it is precisely this doctrine that interests you, the doctrine of silence and the doctrine of repression. And they do it without any scruples, putting people with names and surnames at the centre of the target, professional teachers with names and surnames, and educational centres with a long way to go that, day after day, work doors to provide an education based on the personal commitment of all the teacher collection and on a robust and two-pillar-based education model, the formation of a critical and committed citizen with the values of pau, democracy, equality, freedom and justice, and a_second pillar, education as a social transformer that guarantees equal opportunities to all centres, to all our students, especially to those who, by social, cultural or economic reasons, do not leave so many. Another time, you present a motion in which, behind this curtain of defense of human and universal values, of the preservation of children's rights, of the balanced presence of men and women in educational books and contents, or of the presence of different affective realities and sexual options, you preserve the hope that long-standing movement, the experience of fracture and division of the educational community. And we're not going in there. We have never entered it or entered it today, because who are you to stand up as great defenders of these universal values? Or do they doubt that our education system does not guarantee them? Haven't you had enough of the fact that the same councillor did to you in the committee to expose those alleged crimes of incitement and indoctrination? Are they in memory? They don't remember the mural they attributed to a school and that it turned out to be painted on an attached track of athletics? Or is the stellate at a municipal school that's been shut down for three years? Don't you remember that? [[Greetings.]] Therefore, I inform you that we will abstain from the points that refer to the preservation of the rights of respect and diversity of all students and families, because we do not want to whiten a motion based on continued lying. And we would vote in favour of a summons of inspectors' objections, but we would abstain from it. We will abstain because we want inspectors to value and review our education system, and you will not function if you designate centres and teachers for what they say and for what language they use. Twenty-two years ago, in the middle of the Republic, the mayor and governors of the assembly of my municipality, with the aim of ensuring that no child was left without schooling, decided to build a public school that gave a response to this need. Two years later, and before it could be used, the stars of the war led it into disuse and part of the material was used to build an air raid shelter to protect the population from the bombings. Just after the war was over, the school reopened, and looked to put on the dark of the franchise and to put on the truth what generations of children were under. Years later, the school became the centre of reference for all new families as much of the Spanish State as, later, other countries. Their jails were space to find. The school named Escola Macia-Companys, in record and memory of two of the presidents of this country, one of which, fusellat. Today's school is seventy-five years since its opening, and after seventy-five years, I want its students to know this story, know who was Francesc Macia and Lluís Companies. I also want families who bring their children to Agramunt to record their arrival, and who do so in català, in castle or in the language that they feel the most, but that this school, that any school in this country, follow what it has always been. They don't want to change the story. History is not written by you; history is written by the facts. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of Mr Xavier Quinquilla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.136.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, we are another time before a Macedonian youth, in which the first three points have nothing to do with the subject being raised. That is why we would vote in favour of it under normal conditions, but in this context we will abstain, together with desire, from whitewashing a young man who has no other objective than to continue the false report of addoctrination to our schools. It is for this reason, that of denying the major, that I want to focus on the title of the motion itself and on what seems to me to be especially reprehensible, such as the inappropriate use of the concept, which we cannot banalize or normalize. Because I understand, Mrs. Sierra, I will explain what it means to indoctrinate. Indoctrination does not simply consist in expressing a point of view or occasionally making a judgment of value. The doctrine, religious confession, political conception or ideology can be inculcated through ad hoc action, but from the systematic and continuous work, using three basic tools: taxation, dogmatism and disinformation. Indoctrination implies imposing on the place of education, using repression, such as punishments, punishments or threats. Indoctrination implies the use of dogmatism to instill ideas without providing reasons or evidence that may be object of proof, criticism and discussion. Indoctrination involves disinforming, exclouring the contract options to the company or that they could enter into competition. Do you really believe that our schools are encouraged by repression, dogmatism, misinformation or the promotion of the artistic sense? You know perfectly well that this own reality of the Franco school of Florido Pensil is in the antepods of the reality of our schools. They know that and, despite the damage that entails an accusation as hard as unfounded, they maintain a fictitious relationship based on partial information and not contrasts to make it a dogma on which to justify their obsession with the Catalan school model, and what is still harder, exerting an unjustifiable repression and coercion on the teachers. And I ask myself, shouldn't it be that those who accuse of indoctrination aren't actually indoctrinators? Do you remember the three main tools of indoctrination? The imposition, the dogmatism and the misinformation? Who justifies the imposition by means of violence of arms, robes, imprisonment and exile? Who defends the dogmatism of an untouchable constitution based on the sacred indivisibility of the State? Who uses misinformation to support false accounts or to demonize all those who think differently? Who's indoctrining who? I fully understand that a school that fosters critical thinking from the values of freedom, democracy, diversity, dialogue and tolerance is a problem for those who want to impose a uniformizing vision based on one's thinking. If you teach good doctrine, for example, to educate in love in indivisible Spain, you are educating; but if you water in the classroom the ideological and opinion diversity, what you do is to indoctrinate. This is the paradox on which you claim to support a report and accusations as false as irresponsible. Despite all this, a large majority of Catalan society expressed in a broad and cross-cutting way in this Parliament is very clear that with the Catalan school there is no play, that it is not possible to frivolitize or deny a model that is a guarantee of cohesion, fairness and progress. Francesc Ferrer and Gardia, a pedagogical referent and founder of the modern school, conceived more than a hundred years ago an educational model in which rationality was to be the protagonist and the objective, to enable students to question everything, even the whole order established. This is the school that some do to us, the model of Catalan school, a school where they learn to think, to think and to disagree. A school, like Ferrer and Gardia defended, where all the students can question everything, even all the order established. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.137.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to fix her position, she has the word, in the first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.138.0	Thank you very much. Members, Members, Members of the Bureau, I don't know, I think you don't have to do even two months that we held here the Plethora of coexistence, where we talked about the contradictions of Ciutadans when they talk about one thing and they absolutely do the counter. They speak of coexistence and present motions that go against coexistence; they speak of respect for the rights of students, children, and children, and present motions that exactly what they do is put them in question and go against it, and this is the same day that we are making the Pleth of debate on the rights of childhood. What this young man is doing is instrumentalizing childhood according to the political and electoral objectives of Ciutadans, and we have already told them. But I have bad news for you: attacking the Catalan school does not give votes, and they will also prove it. [[Greetings.]] This is like one of those Nadal menus, isn't it? , that you start with a light appetizer and say: "Mmm, what good. Well, look, it looks like this time it did go to education, and to rights and respect. Then come the others, which is that heavy and indigest stew, that there is no way to digest it, and that you spend a week remembering why I ate that stew. So no, we won't eat it. We will vote in favour of the appetizer and even superficial, taking into account what he sees later, but we will vote against everything that, in reality, is nothing more than to instigate the educational community and disrespect children, children, teachers, school members and parents. Because parents and mothers aren't big enough, and we don't take our children to places where they adopt them. Parents and mothers take our children and girls to places where they teach them to analyze, to be critical and to have an opinion and to think close, not to point out those who think differently. You were already left alone at the Congress of Deputies with a motion on indoctrination in Catalan classrooms. Already in his moment our congressman, Joan Mena, fucked up a stroke that was made viral not only in Catalonia, it was made viral throughout the Spanish State. This time they were trying to avoid this, and then they have included these little things, and yes, they have managed that in the points that really speak of gender equality to text books, of the presence of affective relationships and of different sexual options, there will be our support; but it is also very curious that, when this morning we heard them speak of inequality, the reminders that you voted against the removal of public subsidies to the choices that secrete by sex, which implies an education that you have very little to see with gender equality, and that you endorsed to keep the funding to the choices of Opus via 155, that while the 80_per_cent of the assumption of the 0-3 year grades, the choices of the 31st anniversary pass. Is that equal? Is this gender equality, segregation to education? They also claim to withdraw private grants to entities from other parts of the State and, in change, do not care to donate money to Opus Dei, which if one thing is not missing they are precisely money. They won't find us in their criminalization and in their Croatian anti-Catalan school. We're sorry, we're not. We defend couples, seas, educational community, children, children and teachers. We will not endorse the application of biting law against the Catalan school that you also tried at the Congress. They're falling apart. Maybe now in a few votes at a few places they won't be so alone, because maybe they'll have Vox on the side, giving them support in these statements that go against the Catalan public school. But the Catalan public school is one of the great consensuses of this country. It's one of the consensus that, after all, the PP didn't even dare question it the way you do it. Why? Because you think that's what women vote for. It's not like that. I no longer pose partisan interests over the interests of the community and Catalan education. We talk, if they want, about segregation, we talk about barracks, we talk about raties, we talk about free and universal public school – not Opus – we talk about groceries... When they want to talk about all this, they'll find us, and we'll talk about it, and we'll probably do a lot of things together; but when they talk about this and only about this. If you really want to get old for teaching and for letting and stopping the instrumentation, start for yourself. Make it true: to promote coexistence, to promote empathy, to stop saying one thing and to do the contract, and, please, once more, to leave the Catalan public school in peace. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.139.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it's Mr. Carles Riera's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.140.0	Thank you, President. From now on, to communicate that our parliamentary group will not participate in the vote on this motion, and this today is our way of expressing our opposition and our rebuff to this type of motion, in concrete terms to this motion. We no longer want to continue to whitewash these types of policies which, under aspects that include the motion, which, even in some exceptional cases, we could consider reasonable and acceptable, what they claim, as I said before, is to whitewash the criminalization of the Catalan school, the Catalan public school, and whitewash the criminalization of our educational community. We will not continue to participate in this game; we will not whiten this type of motion; we will not whiten the underlying motives of the proposing group, which is nothing more than to keep and bind the fire of conflict, fragmentation and confrontation in our school. We will continue to defend the Catalan school, a free school, a critic and a free experimenter, where we can discuss everything with free, plural and diverse criteria; we will defend all the components of our educational community; we will continue to defend linguistic immersion as the foundational instrument of cohesion and so that the català remains a vehicle and communitarian language in our classrooms, and we will continue to defend, above all, the school space as a democratic space and critically open to our social reality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.142.0	Thank you, President. With the permission of Mrs. Segovia, I will stand in representation of the People's Party, won't I? And in this sense, we will do it in a way that is in favor of this young man. I'm sorry to disappoint you, but we'll do it in a positive way for this young man. Mirin, obviously at school you have to be able to talk about politics, it's obvious, and you have to be able to talk about politics, it's obvious. What you can't do at school is political. Politics, anyway, we're here. Therefore, let us know, those who say that the Catalan school is not touched, that as many times as we need to put in question the Catalan school, always, not in doubt, with the hope of improving all those aspects that we may consider to be better. And so, we'll do it, and we'll do where we have to do it, which is here. Now, classrooms aren't political. And precisely, if this young man has felt it is because, unfortunately, in some cases, not in a general way, the classrooms have been political. And it's important that we make it clear that precisely at school, where everyone is, I repeat, all Catalans take infants to school, if it's an area of impartiality, of pluralism, if it's the reflection of society's pluralism. And I point out the definition of 'pluralism'. "Pluralism does not mean independence of the left and independence of the right; "pluralism means of the right, of the left, of the left, of the left or of the left. And, therefore, any action that is done to the classrooms in one sense or another is and will be critical, whether in the pupils, advising us, in one sense or in another, is equal, or the teachers, in one sense or in another, will be critical, reprehensible, denounce it, defend impartiality and plurality, and vote on the motions that are needed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. To position herself on the exams, has the new word the deputy Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.144.0	Thank you, Mr. President. You see, Mrs. Niubó, Albert Rivera, what he did was he shared a news story explaining that there were some teachers who had some legal problems. I took him away and I met the teacher, I didn't feel appointed. Where's the problem? What do they want, to ban news that they don't like? Do you want to ban anyone from sharing a news they don't like on Twitter? Or do I also sign teachers why did I have him cut off? Then, Mr. Sole spoke of the truth as one of the bases for politics. What was it like? Independence in _Methods? What was it like? That Mr. Rufian was at the Congress divided and not one more day? Because that's the truth, isn't it? Then, the only one who's quiet, because I said... the truth is that they're repayable, huh? Because they always do what I say they do, they never fail me, so I have to recognize them. I said: "Now they will say that what we want is to end the debate. No, look, do you know who's quiet? Silence the assemblies of Esquerra Republicana and Juntes per Catalunya when they forbid us to perform acts in their municipalities. Do you know where silence is? That prevents a prize-recognised cervantist from making a conference at a university. That's silence. And the thing that's quiet, the thing that's going on, it's not the one who shares an article on Twitter, it's the one who leaks a person's personal data because it's done something as terrible as asking for the language projects at the center, which I've been told since spring that they're stuck and lied to. And to Mr. Quinquillà, man, many thanks to explain to us what the word "indoctrination" means. With the sound of Ciutadans, we didn't know. As we are beasts with human form, we do not know what it means to indoctrinate. As soon as we have together for Catalonia, these supreme beings, these superior beings who illuminate us, and now we know thanks to you what the word "indoctrinate" is. Thank you very much. On the other hand, Mr Ferrer and Guàrdia... ai, Mr Quinquillà [[relays]] , you spoke of the modern school of Ferrer and Gardia, which defended that the only possible language in teaching was the castle. Maybe I should sort out another model.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.145.0	Mrs. Sierra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.146.0	Yeah, I'm done. And, Mrs. Segovia, look, do you know what it means for you to live together? Be quiet, be the cross of separatism. Then there's no problem with living together. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] With us we don't count, we won't shut up. I, man, Mrs. Segovia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.147.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.148.0	Madam Segovia, you believe [[Funnel veils]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.149.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.150.0	Madam Segovia, you really think you can give it to her. [[Funnel veils]] ...? Ah, if Mr. David Cid is capable of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.151.0	One moment, one moment, Mrs. Sierra, one moment, please. Mr. Cid, I'll call you to order. Go on, Mrs. Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.152.0	Mrs Segovia, after the results in Catalonia and after the results in Andalusia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.153.0	Time's up, huh? That's why, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.154.0	... your party has to tell City what to do to win and not win votes? Maybe not. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.155.0	We called for a vote. There was a petition for separate votes. Mrs Niubó, I'm sorry, did you ask me for a separate vote on Point 4? [[Pause.]] I 9, 4 and 9. All right. Can they vote together? [[Pause]] Yeah? Mrs. Segovia, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.156.0	Yeah, sorry, we'd ask for a separate vote from all the points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.157.0	All right. All right, then. So we're going to vote separately for all the points of this young man. Let's start voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 61 votes in favour, against, 59 abstentions and 3 Members who have not voted. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. This point, number 2, is approved by 61 votes in favour, against, 59 abstentions and 3 Members who have not voted. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. This point was approved by 61 votes in favour, against, 59 abstentions and 3 non-voting Members. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 66 against, 18 abstentions and 3 Members who have not voted. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 53 votes to 67, with no abstentions and three Members who did not vote. Let's now vote point number 5a. The vote begins. Point 5a was approved by 61 votes to 59, with no abstentions and 3 non-voting Members. Let's move on to point number six. The vote begins. The sixth point was rejected by 53 votes in favour, 67 against, with no abstentions and 3 Members who did not vote. Let's now vote point number seven. The vote begins. The seven-point was rejected by 53 votes in favour, 59 against, 8 abstentions and 3 non-voting Members. Let's go now and vote on the 8th. The vote begins. The eighth point was rejected by 53 votes in favour, 67 against, with no abstentions and 3 Members who did not vote. Let's go now and vote on the new point. The vote begins. The new point was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 67 against, 17 abstentions and 3 non-voting Members. Let's go now and vote on the point you want. The vote begins. The vote was approved by 61 votes in favour, against 59 abstentions and 3 non-voting Members. There are no more points to vote on this young man. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the 78th Regime and the need for full sovereignty to build a country nationally and socially liberated]] [[302-00046/12]] Let us therefore turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the 78th Regime and the need for full sovereignty in order to build a country that is nationally and socially liberated. [[remorse of the voice]] - No, no, no, Quiet, please, if you have to leave the hemicicle. Motion submitted for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose it, has the word Mr Vidal Aragonese deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.158.0	With this young man we wanted, in the first place, to fight the myths of the Transition and, in a very special way, the significance of the Spanish Constitution. It is a constitution that denies the right to self-determination; that the head of state is designated by Franco, or in the form, better said, that he sorted Franco; the high judicial institutions, continuations of the Franco, and the Constitutional Court, guarantor of the status quo; army, Civil Guard, National Police without democratization processes, and the economic oligarchies that had grown in the shadow of the Franco with the ability to control strategic sectors of the economy. It's all about that, which means the 78th rule, and because we're a nation, that we want full sovereignty. I « full sovereignty for us what it means is democratic exercise, that the people of Catalonia can sort out the type of society in which they want to live. For us too in a very special way would come from the hand to reject what the 78's rule means and not to accept the policies of the troika. The Republic can be formalized after a self-determination reference, it can be formalized with a declaration in an institution such as this Parliament of Catalonia, but the construction of the Republic is not a formal process; it is the ability because we have a people willing to defend it in such a way that the repression of the Spanish State cannot act. That is why, obviously, we must have a republic that pays the penalty. And the republic is also, and above all, a process of building rights, of winning rights, not as a final goal, but as the way of building a republic. Right, which is the goal of this young man's sovereignty, for the majority of the people, for the majority. And, therefore, the content of the second part of our motion has been proposed for the majority of the country, not to say for the totality of the country, in education, sanitation, housing, working conditions, equal pay for women and men, fair taxation and democratic and guaranteed public security. Who have our concrete proposals been? The first, a minimum wage of EUR 1 000 for all those activities which, if held by the Catalan Administration, are managed in a direct way, and we would understand that everyone in this room, obviously, will be in favour of this, a very small issue. Also ensure that everyone who wants to go to public education can go to public education and we guarantee their funding. From the hand, too, of another proposal, that is a drop in university taxes in a 30_per_cent, petition that, moreover, is practically consensus in the conjunct of the university community. That our sanitation, the public, can be of public management, and a reduction of the waiting lists of 50_per_cent. They see that we're not even laying down deletion of the waiting lists, but a 50_per_cent reduction proposal of the waiting lists. The problem of housing. Expropriation of the bank's empty habitats and creation of a public logger park at about 30_percent of the average salary. Or change the law of equality between men and women so that we have an effective reality of equality between the wages of men and women, not only a formal equality, but an effective equality. And creation of an observer of control, denunciation and transparency about the violation of human rights that can commit the body of Mossos d'Esquadra. And, at the same time, in relation to these developments, and with which some, in the majority, can have a certain economic impact, we also plant alternatives because this can be guaranteed. Alternatives that go through a new tax system, redistributive and progressive; rather than a new tax system, some tax model measures that mean increasing the IRPF or IRPF's trams for those who enter less than €60_000 a year, or modify the inheritance tax so that you can have a much more progressive natural. Also, in order to guarantee this, to boost the Catalan public bank, through the transformation of the Catalan Institute of Finance, and that this can be translated into a bill that is done in the first half of 2019. And we didn't want to forget in this movement of those and those who today are found to be engaged or engaged, or exiled, for a democratic exercise or to defend the self-determination reference. We wanted it to be moved, or that we can vote to move the maximum respect and, at the same time, all our support, as well as support for all those mobilizations that can be given the very 21st of December divender and those that should be given with the iniciator to the Supreme Court, in Madrid, of the macro-cause against the people of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.159.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word, in first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.160.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs... There's a transition report that we don't share, and we don't share the explanation that explains it, that transition can be summed up in a pact between great men of state locked in a palau, and that it was little more than a teledirected process for the political and economic elites of Francoism. We believe that this reading installs us in defeatism and installs us in political immobilism. And we believe, moreover, that there is another reading that is more honest with those who have left life and freedom for democracy, the one that reminds me that, especially since the sixties, popular movement, labor and vein prevented the continuity of the dictatorship, and that it is our place to recognize that the anti-flash resistance is probably the most heroic arrival of our country, that, if it is certain that the dictator died on the bed, the dictatorship died on the road, and that the transition is explained by a correlation of weaknesses in which the Francoism, which had all the power of the State but did not have legitimacy to continue, was incapable of continuing the dictatorship, and that the democratic movements, which had all the legitimacy to build a new country, did not have the power to do so. And it must be said today that the pact between the Francos and the Democrats did not break it, either in Catalonia; those who occupied the spaces of power precisely broke it. And this fracture is especially evident in three key elements of the Transition. The first, the break-up of the social pact, which followed a frontal attack upon the arrival of our opinions and which put the state of the knee-deep welfare at European austerity via 135, and broke the pact between capital and work through two labor reforms. The second, the breakdown of the national pact, which broke a central element of the Transition that explains the recognition of Adolfo Suárez of President Tarradellas as legitimate President of the Generalitat, and, therefore, the Generalitat of Catalonia as a republican institution prior to 1978. And we firmly believe that the feeling of the Statute and the application of 155 to the Catalan institutions has broken the constitutional box of Catalonia. And a third element, the breakdown of the institutionality arising from the pact of 78, systemic corruption in our institutions and the use of the high judiciary of the State for political purposes have broken the institutional pact to the Spanish state. As the role of the Royal House in the conflict in Catalonia has also been played, and which causes 70 percent of Spanish citizens to consider the king to be either straight or extreme right. The king's speech to call for his 23-F from Catalonia broke his position of neutrality and today's situation as an obstacle to the construction of a plurinational country and to the necessary democratic regeneration. And before the recognition that the Transition was a pact between Francos and Democrats and that the constitutional pact is broken in our country, we believe that the honest question that we need to ask ourselves today is whether it is possible for a pact between Democrats to jointly lead a _second transition, or whether the Spanish right will call for a retreat before the change and to rebuild the transition's bunker and the king's defense. I'm 20 years old. I did not participate, as you must understand, in the previous transition, but I honestly believe that today we have the challenge of leading a pact between democrats, of leading a second transition that I built agreements, especially in two directions. The first, before those who demand the dissolution of the Catalan institutions day and day, and defend a reading and a narrow vision of Spain in which there are no nations that make up it. Before this right, I want to cooperate because I fully recognize that the Government of Catalonia is a republican institution and that this Parliament is a national parliament. And before they defend submission to austerity policies and the continuity of corruption as a form of government, we also need to cooperate to regenerate our institutions and rebuild a welfare state from the south of Europe. We will vote that yes to his wife in the first three points. And there's a fourth point where we won't vote, and I'd like to make it clear that we don't vote for it, not for solidarity with political prisoners and exiles, we've said it and we'll always say it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.161.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.162.0	I'm done, Mr. President. The relations between Catalonia and Spain cannot be built from the assumption of prisoners and exiles, but from the construction of a common front for rights and freedoms in our country, but we will abstain precisely because we do not want to make 21 December a self-fulfilling profession. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.163.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the turn of the deputy Irene Fornos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.164.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies. As he says in his book Joan-Lluís Lluís, Franco was not killed, but the franchise did not die. "The transition we have made between all of us will avoid making the power structures clean. Only maintain the impunity of the dictator and his. Nor have they held the dignity of Xile, Argentina, Uruguay or Guatemala, when at least they ended up judging torturers and murderers. Here they will only end up judicious democratic politicians, compromised with pacifism, for the one crime of organizing a referendum. Because the 78's rule and the previous one is a rule that doesn't forgive critics, but very generous with their friends. Sixty-six thousand to the bank; four thousand to the energetics; the Botín doctrine to guarantee impunity respects the tax evasion aided by recurrent amnesty to corrupt, and the most corrupt of all, a monarchy imposed by the dictator, never referred for the popular vote, that has made personal wealth, through corruptiles and arms trafficking with rules like Saudi Arabia, its currency. In change, neither recovers the 116,000 disappeared nor ends with the Valley of the Fallen, which with the dictator inside or outside end up feeling a shame of a state that is democratic in the Europe of the xxi century. But the Transition only forgave those who rebelled against the democratic order in force and imposed oblivion on their victims. A transition that, far from being peaceful, ended with five hundred and seven hundred dead. Hundreds at the hands of the ultrathreat and the Spanish security bodies. Left Republican of Catalonia, like hereus of the republican legitimacy of Macia and Companies, we were already against the 78-rule before they said "78-rule". And here, to dismantle it, they'll always find us. But it is also time for those who gave their support at the time of the 78th rule to see a possibility of democratization, also at the national and territorial levels, to begin to recognize their weakness. Left up today with threats of illegality, with his president in prison and his general secretary in exile. A rule that did not dare to do the franchise, undertake the president of one of the most important social and cross-cutting entities in the country such as Cultural Heritage. The Constitution that we have today is an article 2 on the military guarantee of the unit of Spain passes through any other article, and climbs without shame civil and political rights. The General Council of the Judiciary recognizes that the unit of Spain is the main computer of the Spanish legal system, but other constitutional requirements are ignored when necessary. We are in a state that, despite defining itself as a layman, still maintained a pre-constitutional agreement with the Vatican. As my people are told, "things from before must go to the museum. And the 78_rule has to go to the museum and a human rights court, which is where this democratic farce will end. If we were a full democracy, would there be people in prison and exile to hold a vote? Would there be a president of a parliamentary group, two deputies and an elected member of this Parliament in prison, in a place of fame, to report their rights being violated? That the Constitutional Court admits to them the remedies to keep them in a dungeon? The 78th Regime, the one that "we gave ourselves among all, no longer the flight to Catalonia". According to the Ara opinion poll, only 20 per cent of Catalans would vote in favour of the Constitution; only 15.5 per cent would vote in favour of the monarchy in a referendum. According to the last barometer of the CEO, only a 17.14 would vote in favor of the Constitution, and from this 17.14, up to 46 percent consider that the franchise was positive or had positive things. An example of how the promise of democratic regeneration that some see in the 78's ended with a 155 on the right of what Fraga was proposing and with what now Married, Rivera and Sánchez threaten discretion. That is why we will vote in favour of point 1, point 2 and point 4 of the motion for a resolution submitted to the CUP. But we cannot vote in favour of point 3, where we find a whole bar of sectoral proposals, with some of which we can be very much in favour, others against, but which, in any case, deserve a specific and richer discussion than we could have had when we did not go in and accept or deal with our papers. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.165.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of the Frenchman of Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.166.0	MPs and MPs, the repression does not stop, and we have just heard an arrest warrant against Tomàs Sayes, of the National Secretariat of the Assembly. All our support and all our solidarity. [[Greetings.]] The repression does not stop and, today, it divides days of fame. A wave of fame that is a cry for independence, not for reference, is a cry for justice. I, when justice is claimed, means that we live in injustice. And I, Members and Members, appeal to your humanity, to your political responsibility as legislators; you have company from this hemicicle in exile and in prison, four of them in a place of fame. It's a democratic situation that's unbearable. MPs and MPs, you don't allow it. [[Greetings.]] About the young man. CUP companies, we agree– we agree. We will vote in favour of points 1, 2 and 4, and against point 3. And why do I say we agree? Because political analysis is coincidental: our problem is a Spanish parliamentary monarchy directly inherited from Francoism; the problem we have with the 78 rule, with the non-transition. Want to know an example of what happened to the Spanish Transition in a day? A fourth of the 77's: three decrees Ilei. With one, the Frankish Court of Public Order is dissolved, with the second is created the National Audience, and with the third is passed the competitions from one to the other. The same robes, the same buildings, the same magistrates, the same political misery, the same repression: Express transition. And this also felt with another day – this previous one –: July 22, 69. The Borbo is named successor to General Franco. He says: "You are my heir. And you know when you're the hero you have a will. And the dictator's political will wrote this: "For the love I feel for our homeland I ask you to preserve unity and to surround the future king of Spain with the same affection and loyalty that you have given me. Unionists have done so in a very effective way: "Affected, loyal and preserve unity. They embroidered it. And it is from this historical perspective that we understand the brutal and pre-democratic repression of '1 October, which was only lacking to be grey; the speech of the King of 3 October, crowning 'the one for them, and the brutal and systemic repression, unjust, against all forms of political dissent – protesters, pallassos, writers, artists, singers–, and 80 percent of our mayors – eight out of every god–; 80 percent of our mayors immersed in an authentic general cause of which the maximum expression will be the trial against political prisoners that will begin now. We agree – we agree – but we look at our responsibilities. All this destructive force of Spanish institutions needs the division of independence. And that's why we tell you that our diverse political perceptions can't weaken us, they can't divide us; on the contrary, they must make us stronger than ever. We do not want an ideologically preconceived republic, we do not want an ideologically conditioned republic. We want a republic that deserves this name because every moment the Catalan citizenry decides who governs it and how it governs it. If you say democracy. And how do we anticipate that now? So, we make effective the republic of this Parliament. And here, CUP companies and companies – and I'm referring to you because the place is yours, and I'm telling you with all my esteem – I'm not enough. This group has never – it will not – criticized any defence strategy of the CUP's head member – ever. We won't. Respect absolutely. I can't stand it. Because we know that the unit against repression is equal to the unit for the republic, and we know that divisions in repression is equal to the impossibility of establishing the republic. Personally – you know – I share many of your political postulates, and at the same time – you also know – dissension of many of your political postulates; but we agree with how they will be, or not, politically effective, and it is through the full recognition of the sovereignty of this chamber, from the independence of Catalonia. And that's why we don't understand – and it still resonates – that when President Torra in his investiture offers you his hand, say that you automatically go to opposition. And we don't understand, and still in mourning, your "not in Jordi Turull, consensus candidate for the two republican political forces, also, of this Parliament, the numbers or of which are President Carles Puigdemont, in exile, and Oriol Junqueras, in prison – in mourning, still. We don't want to be the purest prisoners, we want to be the most free people living in the most democratic republic, and that's why ours, and we are sure to take your words from our esteemed and dearest Felicia Fuster: "Because I'm trapped I'm getting angry. I'm done. This vote already knows how it's going to end. There are four deputies from Junts per Catalunya who will not be able to exercise their vote, and one from Esquerra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.167.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.168.0	...that you won't be able to exercise it. We have started with reprisals, and we continue with reprisals. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.169.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.170.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen of the House, this young man presents himself as a task to the totality of the Transition and to the forty years of force of the Constitution; an inconsistent task, worthy of the speeches that make us wrong and right the separatists, the populists and the populists separatists. Look, ladies and gentlemen, to all of Spain, from forty years ago, the full guarantee of the democratic and social rights of the nation, of the free and equal assembly of citizens in rights and dues that we conform to the Spanish nation, all of us inclusive, is the Constitution and the laws that we have given each other. And that's it, manifest what the group proposing and, of course, the majority of scandals, that neither social nor vote, separatist nor populist of this Parliament are manifesting. The full force of the Constitution and of our democratic order is the guarantee that the attempts to violate the fundamental rights, such as those produced in this Parliament on the 6th and 7th of September 2017, will be followed by the capture of Mr. Torra, his Government and the groups who, with more or less enthusiasm, support him, and will have more consequences than those who left for his leaders. A few days in which, as I recall, the group that proposed to us this young man, who called for a liquidation process that left behind our shared history, actively participated in the attack on democracy, with a capital, that wanted to repeal, in fact – with a majority of escons, that neither social nor popular support to the ballot box – the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. The Constitution; "the 78 rule, they say; democracy, ladies and gentlemen; full democracy that recognizes us The Economist Intelligence Unit, in its democracy index – full democracy. Since 1978, now forty years ago, Spain has been a social and democratic state of law that defends, like values superior to our legal order, freedom, justice, equality and political pluralism; values that I share; values that Ciutadans Parliamentary Group shares. I am proud, very proud of my generation, of which the generation before my generation and many millions of Spaniards have been able to build folds for the past forty years. A pride shared by my parliamentary group, which shares Ciutadans, my party; this party, born of a civic platform, which entered this Parliament in November 2006 with three Members, and which now, twelve years later, we won the elections with more than 1.1 million Catalan votes. A party that defends the values that the constitutional nation, which makes us free, equal before the law and politically plural, has given itself with the Spanish Constitution of 1978. A Constitution that has brought us forty years of living together in poverty, of social and economic growth, that has brought us the state of welfare that our parents can not even imagine. Today, it is also a day to be proud of those who integrated the constitutional posence and the members of the Corts General, the result of the first free elections after the long night of the Franco dictatorship. As a result of their willingness to reconcile and live together in peace, we enjoy a model constitution that some see as a danger to their separatist day. You, those who support this government, want to repeal it. Many think it can get better; of course it can. They can improve it, but it has to be a reform in the Constitution, in accordance with the legally provided reform procedures. I would especially like to recall a man of the left, a communist wrestler, a member of the PSUC and Minister of the Government of Spain with President González, in Jordi Solé Tura. He also made it clear that he had not opened up to democracy, and he did so like all those who participated in this transition process that has been modelled on, despite repeated attacks by those who see the guarantee of the Constitution's rights as a danger to his purpose of breaking down coexistence. Despite the distorted interest of some groups in this Parliament, the Constitution is the true source of the full democracy we enjoy. This is the reality of the country, and the truth that history will remember for centuries. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.171.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.172.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, well, forty years ago the approval of the Spanish Constitution, and this has been the longest period that has existed in this country, in the first term, of pau, and, in the second term, of political, economic and social instability, from the economic instability that exists in the cycles of a capitalist economy. The truth is that the social, technological, economic evolution goes for a band, and advances linearly, and the evolution of institutions, because of their own desire to stabilize, so it advances further to baptisms. That is to say, there are periods when it has been misadjusted, social and institutional developments have been disrupted. And, therefore, that is why it is necessary to introduce reforms in institutions, and that is why it is necessary, from time to time, to review even the basic institutional norm that is the Constitution. And we're partisans, that's what we know. We would like a reform of the Constitution in order to make Spain a fully and consequently federal state, which assumes its internal plurality, its national plurality, in the best way that we can hide ourselves, which is with federalism, and also to adapt these technological, social and economic changes to our concept of democracy, is to say, to introduce, surely, more elements of direct democracy, together with those of..., let us say, the deliberate elements and the represented elements, and to shield their social character. Now, you're making a criticism of this motion, let's say it's really succinct – I understand that by surprise, by name – to the Transition and the Constitution, because they actually dedicate a paragraph to the criticism of the Transition, and then, to the Constitution, they basically dedicate some qualifications to it, right? Qualifiers we can't share. I mean, we could share some elements of the criticism, but we don't buy the package because you want us, let's say, to talk about what the Transition, the Constitution, and the current political situation meant, this attempt to draw a Spanish as a state, let's say, protoauthoritarian, or authoritarian directly, without freedom, etc. We don't share it at all. Do you have democratic deficiencies, our state? Obviously. Like the French, like the Portuguese, like the German, like the Italian, and each with its specificities, and each with its historical problems, inherited, in many cases, from the same process of formation of the state. But you do make a series of characterizations of the Constitution, which call it anti-democratic and anti-social. I, in fact, do not have time to extend'men qualified on the Law of Transition that the majority of Parliament tried to push in the previous legislature, but, making a paragraph of a well-known phrase of Pi and Margall, his proto- or pseudo-Constitution taught the ears of an authoritarian rule; yes, with a frigid cap, eh? , but taught the ears of an authoritarian regime; in no case democratic nor republic on its premises. Well, and therefore, here we sweep, in this criticism, a series of questions that in comparative constitutional law we might find in advanced social democracies of our environment without any problem, with others who deserve criticism, such as the first, or more, but who deserve these qualifications as you say. And they are surprised that the commons, which are heretic claims of the tradition of the PSU, and through their PCE, join this disqualification. And more after I hear the speech of Congressman Ferro, which I can share in great measure. Then, too, I count a distance, this young man, who is actually a whole tour about questions of social and economic policies, which we assume are used to prepare the land in his position on the assumptions, but that they are, let's say, absolutely out of time, do not take place here. But, in addition, this young man came up on a special day, with the same title you painted them that we found in a fortnight of our own. You belong to a conglomerate of organizations, which in this conglomerate is said to be independent left, apparently, let's say, appreciation of the oximoron, but in this conglomerate there is Arran. Arran has had the opportunity to sign all and every one of these paintings and, in some cases, some threats. I ask them to take advantage of the occasion to recommend, to those who think they follow their instructions and their slogans, that they do not do things like these, that they do not contribute absolutely to the appearance of democracy all that you come to defend here. Because, look, they don't intimidate us, they don't make us for it. If they do anything, it's to refer to our convictions. As much as they send us the squadrons or squadrons from the esprai...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.173.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.174.0	...we don't get intimidated or intimidated, do we? And, therefore, we will continue to participate in all the debates, trying to reason our arguments and confront them with theirs, and sometimes, if I may...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.175.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.176.0	... come to terms, but in the end, we will tolerate threats. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.177.0	It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.178.0	Thank you very much, President. I have only two minutes and a half; for a reason of this nature, I would really like to have more. But in any case, I start quickly. It has been said here, there is a thought to the totality of the Spanish Constitution and the Transition, and they forget that the Constitution was ratified in Catalonia for more than 90 percent of Catalans; it is the autonomous community that collected it the most. Certainly, the reform mechanism too. It must be very presumptuous to think that you are more than the Catalans who decided there. Who did you think of to undermine the reform mechanism left behind by the Catalans of that generation? What do they think is superior to those Catalans? So they're not. We will have to eat this mechanism, because we must be able to respect previous generations. Two. The regulation of the Spanish Crown, inclusive of the Spanish Constitution, is of Scandinavian textual inspiration, has nothing to do with, for example, that of the Kingdom Unit, which, for a tradition of the Commonwealth, therefore, is more intense in political participation. So, no, what you're criticizing is a falsehood, it's a lie, it's a Scandinavian inspiration – Sweden, Norway, Denmark. Three. The attributions of the Armed Forces, included in the Spanish Constitution, are of French inspiration. I don't think it's a dictatorship, France. It's exactly the same. Another lie they say; I don't know if you are harmed or out of ignorance or through a barrage of two things. Four. The relationship between England and the State... you must bear one thing in mind. Mirin, twenty-eight states of the European Union; there are five confessionals: Regne Unit, which in March; Denmark, Finland, which are declared Lutherans explicitly; Greece, Orthodox; Malta, Catholics; then, there is only one layman, France. That you have all the right of the world to say that you want Spain to be secular, it would just be missing, but it turns out that the two of you are like us: confessional. To say that we are in a dictatorial state... no, we are almost, practically, the whole of the European Union. Finally, you have a point, the third, which is a point of aggravation, because it is a precise catalogue of policies that have led to the misery of humanity and that, fortunately, have been corrected, and that, obviously, we would vote against, except for three matters from the very long young man with regard to equality of men and women, free of some servants and waiting lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.179.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now, finally, to stand up to the considerations, is the return, again, of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.180.0	By order of intervention. In the first place, with regard to a joint response that took place as intervention– Together for Catalonia and the Republican Group. You're talking to us every time we leave the themes of a republic model for a future, and sometimes we're talking about that we're already doing an ideologically preconceived exercise. So, look, today's reality is that you impose the neoliberal model on us: you serve partially privatized publics, tribute that you do not bet excessively on redistribution and a police that would seem sacred in their treatment. So you, on a day-to-day basis, impose a model on us and say that we have a preconceived model. And the second question, the second answer we give them. Miri, for us, the construction of the republic is going to do yes or yes in conquering rights. If anyone thinks that we first have the republic and then the rights are already arriving, they are not reading what is being completed in the country. And our proposals, although someone wants to talk about that they are socialists, in depth they are merely social democrats: a minimum wage of 1,200 euros, equal pay for men and women, a social housing park or a guarantee of public education. In relation to the commons, we do not share a part of his analysis for which he refers to what the Transition was like. There was a first pact between the Francos, and a second; that you speak of weak and we also speak of renunciations; surely, this is where we must see the differences. But we're transferring them, because we're still discussing how this breakup is actually going. And for us, the construction of the Catalan Republic is an element of rupture. I would also like to refer to the intervention of Citizens, who talk about guaranteeing rights. Let them also tell our Spanish Germans how sanitation, housing, work or proper food is guaranteed. And lastly, to the Socialist Group, with all due respect: you have hinted that we have sent them slips. Do you know the only party that has members that have sent slips? Yours, through the LAG, and it's going to cause assassinations. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.181.0	We called for a vote. Yes, Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.182.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.183.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.184.0	The band that gives me the feeling that I don't know if the criteria have just been met meets the disqualifications with this later intervention, but what I just said is an absolute historical falsehood. In change, Arran – Arran – does belong to the conglomerate of the independent left, signs all and every one of the paintings, and sabotages and threats, like the Terrassa bridge, for example, where there are penjades simulating that someone is scanning, and, moreover, tweets claiming these actions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.185.0	Mr. Aragonese, why ask me the word? [[Perlongats applause.]] Why ask me the word, Mr. Aragonès?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.186.0	He explained that we have not made a statement that it is correct, and we want, in any case, to be able to have this right to reply on two questions. Look at the intervention they are making and seeing as they clearly suggest that we have been the ones who sent them out – the first. And it's not a CUP invention, I'm sorry: Mr. Vera and Mr. Barrionuevo, who were members of his party and who were in jail less than our political prisoners and prisoners.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.187.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Quiet. Quiet. Is there a separate petition vote? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yeah? Mrs. Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.188.0	Vote separate from point 3, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.189.0	All right. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.190.0	Yeah. Vote separate from point 4, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-18-2202.191.0	We shall vote, therefore, first on point 3; point 4, and the rest of the motion. The vote on Point 3 begins. Point 3 was rejected by 10 votes to 113, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. Point 4 was adopted by 62 votes to 53, with 8 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was adopted by 71 votes to 52, with no abstentions. There's no point in dealing today. We suspend the session until tomorrow... [[Widow's remorse.]] If they don't call, they won't know when they start tomorrow. [[Rialles.]] Until tomorrow morning, the gods of the morning. Thank you.
