ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.1.0	Good morning. The session begins. I am sure that the list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the plenary file, and in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules, and as agreed to by the Board of Spokesmen, they will be substantiated tomorrow, you said, to the gods of the morning, as in the order of the day of this plenary session. Therefore, the control session is not going to be today, as usual, but tomorrow morning. Thus, the record that, according to Rule 95 of the Rules, the voting delegations presented are those of the deputies Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva and Najat Driuech, who have delegated their vote to Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and of Mr Carles Puigdemont, Mr Jordi Turull, Mr Josep Rull, Mr Jordi Sánchez, who have delegated their vote to Mr Albert Batet, spokesman of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Let's move on, then, to the first point of the order of the day... yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.2.0	Yes; on a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.3.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.4.0	A call to the observance of the Rules..., in particular to the observance of rule 95, on the delegation of vote. This parliamentary group is opposed to being able to exercise the delegation of the vote, or the vote, those to which you have referred. We all know that on 27 June it was known through the media that these people are suspended in their capacity as deputy by decision of the Supreme Court which has become firm. And we, on the same date, on 27 June, submitted a letter to the Secretariat-General asking for clarification of the consequences in terms of voting and economic rights. This was the 27th; today is the 4th. It is a notorious fact; although the Bureau has not been officially notified, we all know, all journalists, all citizens, all deputies know that these persons have been automatically suspended under section 384 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act. Judicial decisions are enforced, too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.5.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.6.0	...for the legislature. Mr President, if you will allow me... because I too believe that we must rely on your rule 39 authority, which you have an obligation to comply with and enforce the Rules of Procedure. When there is a final court decision, that links all public authorities, including the legislature. Parliament cannot therefore put to the vote either for discussion or for deliberation if the judicial decisions are complied with or not complied with. That is why we ask that we not accept that delegation of vote which you have just made at this time, and with the consequences, if the President does not agree to that compliance with the Rules, which I will have to make later, if his decision is to maintain this delegation of vote, which we believe is absolutely illegal and violates the provisions of Article 384a of the Criminal Procedure Act, as, on the other hand, they cannot ignore the Members affected by this resolution, who are doing so, calling for a delegation of vote against a judicial resolution which has been issued and notified to them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.7.0	Mr Carrizosa, as you well know, or should know, this Parliament has not rejected any notification of suspension of the deputy. Therefore, it has not rejected any formal and official notification. And this Parliament is based, not on press releases, but on official notifications. And anyway, as you also know..., and since I appeal to the observance of the Rules, I will also, of course, do so, because it is the one that surrounds me, and I will tell you that this Parliament is self-regulating and has its own procedures to act in cases of this type. And, therefore, if a notification is answered – which, I insist, at this time has not been refused – it will be analysed as to how to proceed in these cases, taking into account, once again, the appropriate internal procedures of this chamber. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.8.0	In that case, by a new call for compliance with the Rules of Procedure, and this time, under Rule 41 of the Rules of Procedure, we ask this parliamentary group to all the secretaries of the Bureau to comply with Rule 41 of the Rules of Procedure, which obliges them to assist the President in ensuring that the votes are corrected. Every time the president reads the votes, I understand that the secretaries must state that there are six votes whose delegation has been accepted by the president who is not accepted by a parliamentary group, with the relevance that this may have in the event of future challenge of the votes or access to the Constitutional Court because it considers that the rights of the other deputies of this chamber have been violated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.9.0	All right. [[Question to the Government on the occupation of immovable property for the duration of illegal activities]] [[300-00017/12]] We follow the order of the day; let's start with the interrogations. The first question to the Government is about the occupation of immovables for the duration of illegal activities. It is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans; the question was put by Mr Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.10.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies..., counselor, mirrors, today we have a real problem that affects many citizens, many lives, that has been denounced by active and passive, and we have the starting point in Barcelona, in the Barri del Raval, but I will show it during the intervention that it is extrapolated to the four Catalan provinces. In our own community we also have to take responsibility for those policies that must be foresight, and when a problem we don't have to fix we have to start working to get to the goal. The other day, you opened the door so that you could interact with parliamentary groups, and wherever we brought them, we would look for the right solutions. Before this reference..., I refer to the "growing scourge of organized crime..., for a band, favored and practiced through legal occupation. Miri, the illegal occupation of immovables where they are carrying out drug trafficking, sexual exploitation..., and in some cases we have seen that they have become the macromagazem of the top manta. I mean, we've got the top blanket located, they always say we're gonna have to go get the origin, that it's gonna be the naves that run the top blanket, and now it looks like the naves are already unloading on occupied floors. Miri, from Ciutadans, and under the responsibility of being the parliamentary group that won the elections in Catalonia, by responsibility, obligation and due before many citizens, see, that they will be feeling at this time, we must bring this inquiry to this plenary; an inquiry that seeks solutions..., which have caused deterioration and degradation in many cases of urban areas. We've seen the real estate speculation that came as a result of it. We've also seen an expulsion, which is the most flagrant of all... when situations that the institution doesn't fix end up expelling veins from its area, from its barrier. Miri, mafia war where we see that Catalonia is becoming a struggle by zones, by barrels, by these organized bands; where we have seen sad videos, that we have seen all, greed, people with white weapons, with matter, with canons, counselor. Before that, we have to start thinking about what the solution is and how and how we can fix it among all of us. It's a lot longer where you'll have the opportunity, in the next place, to see the ratings and introductions that we'll bring you, too, in search of this, of what you called the other day, this interaction. You'll get the first chance, I think, in your own place. I look, before, in short, a great situation of insecurity that sees a lot of veins, if it allows me, we already start to focus on it in which Barcelona suffers, in which it was that first detection, the year 2013, of some water that has already been shown to exist, but we also want to carry a lot of cases..., I'm not talking about public space, I'm not talking about the galaxy one sees an imaginary republic, I'm talking unfortunately about the consequence of inaction, the lack of policies. When we are talking about a problem since the year 2013, here before we have two lives: the one we have had, a government that has not been for what it was to be, or we have had an inaccessible government to solve solutions. The invitation, from your entrance to the council, to take these solutions. This parliamentary group, as I told the committee the other day, will have it in the canton to find them. And the problem that we have seen introduced in an exponential way to the four Catalan provinces. [[The orator shows a full.]] Look, this is a little..., and there's not all of them, but because you can see the province of Barcelona; we have a lot of locations in the areas. We also have it in different provinces, like Lleida. We should start thinking about what action and what territorial operations, at the level of our autonomy, of the four provinces, we will start to carry out. Girona, counselor, Girona – it's not a problem in Barcelona, it's a problem in Catalonia – and Tarragona. That's a few of them. What we want is solutions. As I said, it is not a problem excluded from Barcelona, and what we must also provoke..., after a year without government, after almost a year without advice..., where we have seen a government, from the entrance of the senora Colau to the government of the Barcelona Assembly, also from the permissiveness that is sometimes dangerous; sometimes, it is dangerous. But I'll say it too, being able to have a mayor also missed a canton counselor or a general direction that started taking the right solutions. Miri, before different factors, lack of coordination... that have provoked, as I said, permissiveness, altering the situation. The lack of resources and effect. Here we would talk again about the assumption, but look, the time, today, of the inquiry is what it is; I think that the other day I have already made it come true, and we will have the opportunity, in committee, also to value what must be the future assumption of this advice in order to solve solutions, not to put pieces and to remain as small as this last time. As I said, the lack of resources, the traffic of routes... Esconti'm, d'Algeciras we have a land route that is for different cities, up to Catalonia, to our autonomous community, and passes to the country see, which is France. When we have this, we can put in operations, we can put in solutions. Miri, in Madrid, there was something similar to Vallecas's barrio, and it came out... and we were glad to see the news, forty-four hours ago, which seemed to be work and work have solved problems. We're asking for action and work. Miri, after the lack of resources as she said and this traffic that we have clearly, another control and another cooperation that we have to have, and a lot of intercommunication, is with the sub-delegated, with the new, Mrs. Cunillera, sub-delegated from the Government to Catalonia. We must have seats and communication. Miri, I will give you an example, the port of Barcelona: at the port of Barcelona, on the 29th of the XI of 2017, 331 kilos of heroin; port of Barcelona, 12 of the III of 2018, 1,200 kilos of cocaine; port of Barcelona – I put three examples –, 10 of generation of 2017, 500 kilos of cocaine. We also need to have this cooperation and we need to have this communication with the Sub-Delegation of the Government. I will also tell you about the lack of legal instruments that lead us not to be able to fight against illegal occupation; shared responsibility between joint bodies and the Generality and between institutions; what is less? , a shared problem has to have, sometimes, shared solutions, counselor. I'll also say, the police reinforcement and this intercommunication that I gave you when we talked about the port of Barcelona we also have to have with the Deputy Delegate of the Government when we talk about the National Police – the National Police – which never loses..., and you have complete and extensive competence in the field of drug trafficking. Listen to me, if we have a 4,500-moment ratio, more or less, which is what we're dealing with... – we'll also have a process of seeing how we just got in the body at what was being asked of the committee the other day, right? , how many expedients, power, that would involve expulsions, also, of the body, we would end – but if we have a 4,500-mos ratio, counselor, on the bottom, that less to collect... A competition derived from the State to an autonomous community. The State never loses control. Control, do you know what it is? In order to achieve the objective, which is to guarantee to all Catalans to have security... These vehicles that call, these vehicles that have had to be mobilised – plataforms, associations – there is no right that the institution allows the same vehicles to be used to defend what is a waste: that solutions, our institution. Miri, the tourism association gangs are already pointing to an exponential increase in thefts, thefts, tourists who are already denouncing this fact. Counselor, in this first round, I will like to finish saying it: zero tolerance in this aspect, solutions, responsibility and co-responsibility from the council. We have a big problem: the lack of effect, the petty ones. And, in the second place, we can talk about what the solution project is supposed to be. Miri, sometimes when we talk about how much effect we have, we have..., sometimes we see devices, like what we can hold at the house of a lord, who is an expression of the Generality, Mr Puigdemont, with eleven effects in a house where the president is not there. I say, let's start rationalizing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.11.0	Mr. Castel...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.12.0	... with common sense... – I finish, President – and I believe that among all of us we can begin to find solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. Counselor of Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.14.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, very good morning. I will clear the comment you have made now from the President's office, because I understand that you want to complete the law and, therefore, as we have to complete the law, you have to guarantee the services that the law guarantees to an expression. I thank him for his concern, I thank him for the extended hand he has offered me. The question I ask myself is: during these eight months that we haven't had a counselor or director general, has the concern been expressed by anyone else? Because during these eight months the absolute power over the security of this country requires over the Government of the Spanish State. You had a political influence on the Government of the Spanish State and, therefore, I don't know if you have. Publicly, I didn't know how to find you, so... demonstrating this patience that you have for as many people as you said. That it's a patience we share, huh? But we have set ourselves up to work, because until now, therefore, the Government of the Spanish State, with 155, with the wrong name" 155, has prohibited us from acting politically on many matters, not only what it has commented, but on many other matters that we have. He talked about... he came to say that if he was suspicious of other cops, he came to make a speech like that. I've already told the... – or that I didn't want to count on them –, I've already told the committee that professionally the police work together to resolve the cases we have between hands, right? And in any case, what we have to do is strengthen, that, for example, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is, as approved at the Security Board of Catalonia, in a series of prisons, in a series of security meetings in which it has approved itself. But the Government of the Spanish State does not allow us to be in these security cells or in international organizations. He told me about the lack of effect, and I agree. I've already said, there must be calls. It is also true that the 800_million euros that the Government of the Spanish State has now given us in the matter of Squadron Mosses prevents us from pulling forward more calls to hold the number approved for the Catalan Security Board, which is concretely of some divided_thousands, a little bit about the division_thousands of agents of the Squadron Mosses of Catalonia. He talked about different people in Catalonia. As I have heard before the spokesman of his training that was based on journalistic criteria, I would like to know whether these data you provide are also journalistic criteria, or are criteria, let's say, officials, donated for some type of security, etc. And I'd appreciate it if you would now, at the tornado, so I could share it with me, even though we know it's a..., the problem of narcopies is a problem that is concretely located in the city of Barcelona, but it does have this capacity to extend's. Specifically, for what he does to the narco, I can inform him, because it's long-term work they've been carrying. You know that it's been four weeks since we've been..., I, as an Interior Advisor, and the Director General, so, three weeks since we've been in the front row, so there's a lot of work ahead of us, a lot of months, and I'd like to give you a series of data, right? That is that, concretely, this year 2018 has taken place forty-three actions in the homes; fifty-eight people have been detained, five of whom are in prison. And, for what it does to the narcopies, concretely, that there are also the ciphers that I gave him, I can tell him that police disarticulation at the moment has involved thirty-five sealed floors, or narcopies, sealed; cessation of activity, four; denunciations, civil or criminal means, three, and expedients of health, one, no? So the thirty-five are very much above the others, and so the police performance is very well known here, that it is working seriously and that it achieves it. Yes, that's true, because he mentioned it earlier, he talked about the mayor... you know how he is at the Security Board, it was one of the themes we were talking about at the Security Board in Barcelona. And there, then, it's obvious that this is one of the problems of the city of Barcelona, isn't it? And we agreed, all pleas, to give thanks and to continue working with the police collaboration that now have the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Barcelona Urban Guard, which work together in this phenomenon, in others, as well, but also in this phenomenon. The Squadron Mosses have a unit dedicated only to this and the Urban Guard also has a unit dedicated to the phenomenon of narcopies, which work together. But there's a third pot here, and we've asked the mayor and a servant to work for this pot, which is also the court pot, to hear us, isn't it? Why, sometimes, we also have to go with each other, don't we? Because agents, security guards, they do a series of tasks, and sometimes they don't go along with the judicial penalties they're supposed to be, do they? And, as we are talking about the phenomenon of narcopies, and therefore, it is an absolutely different phenomenon from what we have dealt with so far with the issue of drugs, and it is not to confiscate large quantities, but to confiscate small quantities. From here on out, sometimes, there's some sort of judgment that you don't think it's enough... that you don't think it's big enough, so, to act. So, then, you will act that we are also working with the third pot of justice, an object that is no longer just going into a piss, but also, let's say, to be able to shut it down absolutely, right? And so, we have to work together. It's a new phenomenon, let's just say police and security have adapted to this new phenomenon. Now we also need justice to adapt, and to work all folds to avoid this phenomenon that exists in Barcelona, to other places, but that basically focuses on the city of Barcelona. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the return, now, of Deputy Castel. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.16.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, his beginning seemed to me to be passing the same as the commission and already running away from study. It seems that what has passed so far and what may have passed between an Interior Councillor's office..., even though you, I recognize it, at that time was not a councillor, but responsibility and co-responsibility, as I said in the first intervention, is not to run away from study, to assume that councillor's office, to see also the shortcomings, the measures of prevention, the operations and the devices we need. And to start thinking that you can do that job that you didn't do in a moment, it's up to you to assume it from today. And, as I said before, so he'll keep us in his corner to work before any situation that's going to improve the situation they've suffered a lot of times. Look, while some..., in a process that also led us to institutional swing, while some of us saw that they were dedicated to hanging deep loops, as we have seen and as I said not in public spaces... [[the orator shows a photograph to the camera]] At the Raval's bar, they were dedicated to hanging red sheets, making a campaign similar to what other cities have done. When the people who are engaged in drug trafficking hang a sheet to find out where to go to buy the drug addict, so, hanging around red sheets we lose them a little bit. Listen to me, do you know what the big lac of this is? The great scourge of this is that the citizenry must assume the responsibility of the institution and the government itself. When in the City of Justice, the building, the Kent Victory... [[The orator shows a photograph to the chamber.]] Listen to me, in this building there are floors of housing, public housing, councillor. What are we doing in this building with the entire occupied area, could you also explain it to me? What action has been taken since the council? Listen to me, as you said, "It seems that 155 stopped us from doing and defiing. Listen to me, you've told us about thirty-one exchequers, haven't you? He told us that they were carrying out actions, as he told us, entering homes, actions... And I'm also telling him that in the last half of 155, too, it was happening. I mean, 155 doesn't have to be the symptomatic excuse to cover it all up. The other day at the committee I asked her if she could look her face in a congresswoman's office, Susana Beltrán, and when she came out that day, I asked her if she could look her in the face and tell her that you hadn't come to talk about it. Today you ask him to look at the face not only the veins of the Raval, the veins of Barcelona, the veins of Girona, Tarragona and Lleida, the veins of our autonomous community that are patenting the chakra of which an institution has been unable for now, and I want it to be for now, to solve, to advise. I also say that the political leaders we have seen in front of the Council of the Interior... – that perhaps the task of the Council and of the same Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra was not carried in the most appropriate way –, it produces me sad also when I see that unions must begin to divide into pasquin idioms, municipal police unions [[the clock shows a few fulls to the chamber]] "Barcelona is not a safe city. The thefts and violence are increasing; there are not enough police officers... I could continue and, if I want, I will facilitate it, more than I do because I put an eye there... Because I think that, sometimes, before the union reports, citizens, we also have the ability to see who the solutions are. Sometimes, it's applying the common sense and responsibility. Look, as I said, I'd like you to look at the eyes and see them today and the next man can start to see the light on his problem. They can begin to see that justice, police bodies, intercommunication, here they have no identity, but they have to have responsibility. And before that, as I said before, he will keep us in the song at all times; he will keep us in the song, never before desirous, always in the song of work. Workers can provide solutions. And, lastly, let me, I think the operation, the solution to this whole sacra doesn't just go through your counseling. I believe it must be a shared task between the Interior Councillor of the area of police and operational security and the area of salvation. The Health Council also when we talk about narcosals, when we talk about venipuncture salts, about all the problems we have with control, but also that venopunction salts have cooperation and direct communication with CAPs also for the follow-up of that person, of the control, of the help we can provide and that they are not only dedicated to covering the ballot and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.17.0	Mr. Congressman, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.18.0	It's over, President. And to assume that that is a reality. Counselor, lastly, solutions, will always keep us in the canton. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.19.0	For the reply, it is the return, again, of the Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.20.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, tell me that you are not running away from study. Well, don't run away from your study! I asked him long ago what they've done and he hasn't answered me. Or else, they've been worried about the narcopies all the time when the government of the Catalonian Government has already returned, right? I can't say he's back because the counselor he's supposed to be here right now is Councilman Forn and not a server of all of you, but they've been worried about the narcopies– or giving me the feeling– from now on. Welcome back, listen to me! There's a police thing, there's a lot of people who've been working with narcopies for many months, and one of the dates is 18, but I can give you 17-18 data that doubles the numbers I gave them. So it's been a long time since you've worked very hard and professionally with no policies. Why did you have a moment when you came to say, "You can look them in the face and from the motion of the week you go and... As if to say the week you are already able to solve the problem? No, no, If you solve the problem, frankly, I'll tell you, huh? , we can help and work together on the political side, but if the problem is solved, basically, also, it is for the professionalism of agents, men and women who are dedicated every day to working for the safety of our lives, not just in the narcopies camp, but in many other camps. He said: 155, to cover it all, that I use it. No, I'm making a reality out of it. You've been here six months, and you haven't had the Government of the Generality, because someone decided. They were the ones who decided to throw in front of 155. Say if I can look at the face, the eyes. Yes, and I can tell them: "There are a lot of people who are constantly working to solve this problem. Others, who today teach signs and say, "Listen to me, here's where you have to go to buy the drugs – I didn't do it, did you, eh? –, "because there's a red sheet, maybe they can't look them in the face. I don't know what you can do. I can tell him that I'll look him in the face and say, "Listen, there's a lot of people working, and I'll put the glue on it, to solve this problem that we have. He talked about the local police unions. Listen to me, I'm fine with you telling me things, but I recommend that your co-director of Barcelona go to the mayor, who's next to this..., because I can't talk to her about the local police unions. But I'm telling you one thing, I'm going to say it again: surely, if the Spanish State pays what you don't give us at all, but in the chapter awarded, signed and approved for the Security Board of 800_million euros in the matter of Mossos d'Esquadra, this country would have more agents and would be able to devote much more work. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't tell me you don't. Home, with 800_million, will we have more agents or not? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. You... listen to me, you, who want to take the problem away...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.21.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.22.0	...do it and tell it and deceive yourself; the one you want. The Board of Internal Affairs, basically, in which it has a larger share is of Chapter I, "Staff costs. If these 800_millions that the Spanish State gives to us in the matter of Mossos..., surely we will have much more moves, we will have much more tool, we will have much more advantages or servants than we can have in the face of the citizen. I, respect what you have said about public housing, so yes, it is very likely that there will also be public housing, okay? From here on out, it's true that the government is working or was already working, okay? , also to look at how legally, therefore, can act in these cases. You know that a narcopis, when it's someone's property, so that someone has to ask that it's unallocated, that it's unoccupied, etc. So the same thing, we work equally with the Public Administration. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, basically, that's all. I, in fact, if you, the week that you see or from here to fifteen days, present a motion that will help us or help us fix the problem, I, listen to me, welcome continue. Here we all have to work together on the subject that I work day by day or have been commissioned by the President of the Generality; but here I say, with the aim of helping more agents to do their job, and not with the aim of seeking political prominence with one of the problems that are very real and that many people have suffered. And here, they won't find me. I told you, they'll find me in the political camp, not in the political camp. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about energy transition]] [[300-00011/12]] The next question, on the energy transition, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The honourable Member Jordi Terrades explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.24.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, advisors, deputies, mirin, the starting point of the energy transition is the unappealable consideration that the current energy model of Spain and Catalonia is unsustainable. In fact, an energy model based on coal, oil, nuclear power plants, is a model suitable for the 20th century, inadequate and harmful to the needs of the 21st century society. In fact, the European Union has made the fight against climate change one of its signs of identity: it has formulated a full route of the decarbonisation of the economy in 2050 and accompanied it with strategies in the field of energy, transport, efficiency, renewable energies, technological development, and innovation. Most of the great European economies, those with which I believe our country should be aspiring to compare, have already put its own energy transition processes on the market. In a recent opinion study conducted at thirty-eight countries for the Pew Research Center, the main threats identified for the international social majority were Gihadist terrorism, a 67_per_cent, and climate change, a 66_per_cent, this last especially majority in the under thirty-five years. In the study, 89_percent of the Spanish population – therefore, also Catalan – considered climate change to be a major threat to the country. These sociological data express, in our view, an important message: the Spanish and Catalan society is hoping for a clear political leadership, a bold political leadership, at the height of the challenges it perceives about climate and energy, a leadership that presents it with a vision and a project of the future. The importance that I believe the Union of Europe gives to these policies is due to the consideration that it is one of the critical problems to define our generations. The perception of citizenship is a positive perception for what it does to the use of renewable energies, because it represents an opportunity to generate jobs, needed also in Catalonia, and above all for the modernization of our economy. Moreover, a large part of the society is aware that during the decade 2004-2011 Spain was placed, together with Denmark and Germany, among the most advanced nations in the world in renewable energies and has seen, with a certain disappointment, that this important act of the country is not only diluted in recent years with the Government of the People's Party, but also experienced a considerable setback. But not only in Spain, but also in Catalonia, she advises. Catalonia has never, precisely, stood out in its recollection of renewable energies, even though we have a lot of potential. Also the setback, Spain continues to feel the second producer of Europe's wind energy and, by the year 2015, it was the fourth country in the world in installed wind power, and the potential for photovoltaics is also enormous. Realizing this potential needs to formulate a long-term vision and develop a country strategy – when I'm talking about the country I'm talking about Catalonia. Joaquín Estefanía, the current Deputy Director of El País, in an article he recently published, saying « Moloch is the climate change, wrote: « The transition to a renewable, distributed and participatory energy system, with democratic control, will become the main factor of modernity of economies all over the world, I say I subscribe. In the next few years and decades, the pau, security and prosperity of countries and societies include as a condition necessary to preserve the climate shields that have made possible the development of our civilization. The Paris Accord meant or implied a game change for the global energy system, despite the fact that now the agreement has been withdrawn – I think at the moment – the United States. Systematic and deep decarbonization of the global energy system is no longer just a utopia or a theoretical consideration, but it is a reality and a political horizon to achieve the length of this century. Unlike the European Union and the countries of reference that commented on them earlier – Germany, France, Great Britain and Italy – the Spanish and Catalan economies have not yet managed to decouple, in absolute terms, the growth of the economy of greenhouse gas emissions. In fact, the year 2017 in Spain the increase of emissions was a 4.46_per_cent and in Catalonia we already carry three years followed by pushes, coinciding with the recovery of economic activity, and so that now many companies are much more efficient; in fact, Catalonia represents the 13_per_cent of the set of emissions of the State. It will be hot to introduce, therefore, advise – and we will have time to talk about it in the future – we processes and measures. The year 2020 we should have reduced to a 20_per_cent respect the year base, which was the year 1990, despite the debates that the previous legislature, with the Climate Change Law, we held, that the government was resisting to assume this date of the year 1990 as the year base. And you know why? So why should we have reduced a 20_per_cent over base year and it turns out that reality tells us that we are a 17_per_cent over 1990 emissions. We have an important problem here. You know that most emissions of greenhouse gases produce or originate the energy system, in the double face of transport and electricity generation. We observe that every day – and we observe it with concern – we have more vehicles in our streets and lanes, without facing a real transformation of the engines of these to cleaner or directly electrical systems. And here the Government of the Generalitat is not an example either: last year we renewed 318 vehicles and there were only 12 electric or hybrid motors, a little more than two years ago, which were renewed by 960, if I don't recall it badly, and there were only two electrics, huh? We have to set an example with the administration. Moreover, in Catalonia, the production of renewable energy is stagnating, especially since the year 2013, we are in very low numbers, and, if we continue to do so, it will be very difficult to get the year 2050 to reach the cent_per_cent of renewable energy, especially in the electricity sector, if the government does not make a radical change in its strategy. In fact, the year 2017 nuclear energy was the main energy source for electricity production in Catalonia: a 53,5_per_cent. And together, I repeat, the production of renewable electricity is stagnated to a 16_per_cent, bearing in mind that here there is a very important contribution of hydropower, approximately an 8_per_cent, which is maintained stable from many years ago; as is also maintained stable the rest, the wind and the photovoltaics in these last five years. Miri, in fact, yesterday analyzed a data from the Electric Network that said that the access and connection permits, the expected generation, huh? , of renewable energies– a 15_percent of gigawatts were windy and a 14_per_cent, a little more photovoltaic–..., in Catalonia, this was insignificant, practically nothing. We have a problem, counselor, with this topic, huh? We are therefore concerned that this little action, to be kind to the government, has made it difficult for us in the future to reach the sundial target. You assume and say – we just have to look at the government's web page – that you have promoted a national pact for energy transition. It is true, the former councillor came here, presented a powerpoint, but after no one had the political will to lead this debate. And a national pact for energy transition, counsel, despite the contradictions that I understand that exist in the governing partners, needs to go beyond the governing partners, needs to call on the rest of the country's political formations to reach consensus in this matter. I therefore ask whether you intend to push the political debate to reach a genuine national energy transition pact that allows us to face a debate of a law of these characteristics; which policies you intend to push to reach as a minimum the forecasts defined for the European Union in energy and emission reductions – agreement of fifteen days ago – and, taking advantage of the fact that Spain now has a government of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, which has made, as one of its signs of identity, an important factor in the economic transition, as it intends to address the relationship with the Government of the State in these policies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.25.0	Reply to the Business and Coneixement Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.26.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, Counsellor, Counsellor, Members, Deputies, effectively, Catalonia has a very low percentage of participation of renewable energies, with only an 8_per_cent. Be aware of this challenge, so I think it's the first step forward in the right direction. At the standard level, make reference to this pact that was approved for the energy transition of 2017. Many of the principles, many of the actions are also reflected in the Climate Change Law, in Article 19, additional provisions 3rd, 4th and 6th of this Climate Change Law; the much back of the content of this pact that, obviously, therefore – now I will talk about it – must continue to advance. And I said that it's true, we have a repte, we're not absolved, so the levels expected and we don't approach the European renewables participation targets of 2020, of 20_per_cent, and of 2030 of 32_per_cent. And this is due to various causes, one of them – and they are distributed – is the interruption of adequate remuneration for renewable energies and the legal uncertainty that has existed on the part of the Spanish State; but it is also true, there are normal fears pending in the Government of Catalonia. And I said: it's true and we admit that it's a Catalan standard_mark because the current one has remained a bit obsolete, and also because the future modification of the Wind and Photovoltaic Energy Decree is one of the pending assignments that we need to work on in this legislature. We are working with different departments; it has very transversal contents, but, yes, yes, it is one of the deures we have. Who are the policies or what is the strategy that some government want to promote in terms of renewable energy? So they are..., I would include it in three blocks: the empowerment of the citizenry; the second, the electrification of the economy, and the third, the involvement of all actors. When we talk about taking over citizenship, the government will eventually take the necessary actions to place the city at the centre of the energy model, with equal treatment and no discrimination, ensuring that citizens and businesses can develop as active energy consumers, that is, that they can consume and at the same time generate, store, share or sell their own energy, either directly or through aggregators – a figure to develop – without being subject to procedures that are disproportionately costly or likely not to reflect their costs, providing them with the capacity to decide whether to provide the energy they consume and tools to manage energy consumption efficiently and responsibly. At present, there are a number of responses to provide the necessary flexibility for renewable energies. We find them on the basis of the National Energy Transition Pact, and they are: the setting up of policies that reinforce the role of demand management in dealing with the challenge of intermittence; distributed generation technologies, including solar sutures, batteries, electric vehicles and recycling infrastructure, and the aggregate interaction of these technologies, which opens the door to us and innovative models of energy-related business as well as the role of the consumer, said, has a strategic role. Therefore, the citizens of Catalonia must become principal agents of the energy market. The Administration does not have to focus solely on demanding more economic prices for consumers – which it does – but it also has to promote the development of distributed renewable energies and the management of flexible demand to achieve a change in the energy paradigm and thus the citizens of Catalonia have lower energy prices. It's about electrical mobility. Deploying electric mobility by road is essential for energy transition. The transport of people and goods by road supposes about 82_percent of the energy consumption of the transport, while this sector supposes more than 40_percent of the energy consumed in Catalonia. For this, a good part of the budget of the Institut Català d'Energia d'enguany will be used to continue to deploy electric vehicle refueling infrastructure. Initially a major effort was planned to achieve a much more ambitious development, which obviously could not be achieved. But we'll insist on that point. The other aspect, from the grip of the citizenry, is the photovoltaic self-consumption. Shared, interconnected and interoperable photovoltaic self-consumption in the network, which is a phonetic axis on the way to Catalonia's energy transition. In addition to allowing the impulse of renewable energies, solar photovoltaic sutures allow citizens to sit in the center of the energy model and can decide on energy, it is time to generate it, manage it or consume it. And that is why the Government of Catalonia is working to establish the conditions to become a country attractive to this practice, both for the citizen and for the development of the different models of related negotiations. Since the year 2017, the Català Institute of Energy has been coordinating the Impuls Taula at Autoconsum Fotovoltaic in Catalonia. Finally, at this first point in the takeover of the city, there are the virtual plants of generation. In 2017, the Generalitat de Catalunya held a pioneering grant call to the State – pioneer to the State – for the installation of electrical energy storage batteries associated with photovoltaic installations. At these times it is working in a _second call to reach the thousand residential solar sustras, and on this line, together with the Department of Action, it will continue to work for the development of a new player in the electric market that is the energy market aggregate. The second point: the electrification of the economy. We are going to an electrification of the economy, and we want to do so on the basis of a distributed, renewable and participatory model. We are clear that this is viable, possible and necessary. Even though technology has matured a lot, it has become much safer and that the prices have dropped in a very important way, Catalonia has only an installed power of 1,260 megawatts of wind, and about 3,000 megawatts of solar photovoltaics. However, it should be borne in mind that Catalonia has a very high potential in the generation of renewable energy sources. It has been said that solar energy – and that we have a lot of exit and a lot of positive respect for other countries – should be enhanced. It is therefore necessary to identify and propose urgent solutions to these regulatory and territorial barriers, in order to promote the implementation of wind and solar photovoltaic energy in a priority way, in the form of projects of less power, easier to integrate into the territory, taking advantage, if possible, of existing infrastructure corridors, with the collaborative participation of citizens, joint ventures and/ or local enterprises that are owners of the technology. Therefore, we have it, on the table, and we will push forward a proposal for a law of urgent measures for the deployment of solar and wind energy distributed and participated in Catalonia. The third point, I said, involved all actors in these energy transition policies. The Generalitat de Catalunya..., you thought: "Practice with the example. And with the aim of promoting energy efficiency and the introduction of renewable energy into our buildings and equipment, it will happen... because investments are consistent with these policies, and action will be taken to promote them. It will also be necessary to exploit new forms of aggregate purchase, such as the Power Purchase Agreement, which allows the Government of Catalonia to base its energy consumption on renewable energies from nine installations located in our country. The municipalities. The Government established the Autoconsumm Photovoltaic Impuls Table on March 3rd, formed by different actors, engineers, distributors, commercialists, professional colleges, etc., to promote it. The business sector. More than two years ago, the creation of the Clúster de l'Energia Efficient de Catalunya was also promoted – so they celebrated this year's day – with the aim of enhancing the joint work between companies to develop teams and serve in this area. The search; do not forget the search. The government is also committed to developing new energy technologies linked to research and innovation. In this sense, the Institute of Energy Research of Catalonia, the IRC, is also one of the actors to take into account. You were wondering if he'd have to discuss it, if he'd have to interact. I believe that with everything I have just commented on, it is obvious that we need it, which will be there. And we want them also in the impact of all these legislative measures and initiatives that we intend to promote, therefore, in order to really establish the objectives, in order to finally achieve the objectives that we have in the matter of renewables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the return of Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.28.0	His intervention was predictable, Counselor. I listened to it from: « We will..., or we can summarize it in: « We will, we will, we will... And I ask you, can we start doing something already, Catalonia? Because I want to remind him that the year 2020, to this 20-20-20 objective, will not come by chance, in the heads of the three vectors; nor by chance. I repeat to insist that a national pact goes beyond the Juntes accord for Catalonia and the Republican Left, and circumstantially with the CUP, or with interest groups, which I believe you have promoted in the past. A national pact for energy transition requires the broad consensus of the whole chamber. Because the rest of us also represent visions, different, surely, from what you can represent. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Progress Units are prepared, in this debate, to reach agreement with the Government, because in this matter we play many things, the country plays many things. I was asking him, and I didn't get an answer, what do you think we have to do or what do you think the government has to do with the nuclear power plants we have in Catalonia, those that report 53 percent of the electricity to us. I know that competence is not of the Government of the Generality, that it is of the Government of the State, but does the Government of the Generality have anything to say about whether the operation of the power stations must be forty years old or must they renew their claims? Because I believe that this was one of the themes that made this cross-cutting debate of the national pact impossible, because there were discrepancies, as there were also discrepancies with respect to how we located renewable generation plants; I am referring to wind and photovoltaics. Do they intend to activate any reindustrialisation plan for nuclear power stations if, in the end, when they reach forty years of service is tanked? Which energy policies and efficiency do you intend to propose with the objective of reducing the final energy consumption to reach, as a minimum, the 27_per_cent that sets the Climate Change Law, the year 2030? And I'm already telling him that Europe's targets are beyond the Climate Change Act, and they're talking to us about 32 and a half. As the government intends to do, to find renewable energies and reach the 32_per_cent quota indicated now fifteen days ago for the European Union? There's twelve years left and we're very, very, very tired. Calen of the order of four_ thousand megawatts of renewables us to be able to reach these objectives. Does the government plan to speed up the process for the installation of wind farms? Yes or no? Because the last plague we've planted in our country has lasted no more than a few years. And, so, you'll agree with me that we're not moving forward and we're not doing well, right? Do you think the government would be able to develop an urban master plan on small-power photovoltaic and wind infrastructure up to a hundred kilowatts in photovoltaics and one megawatts in wind to speed up processing? Do you think of exploring the possibility of making own regulations, as in Generalitat, to regulate low-power photovoltaic energy installations? Because here we have competitions, and we still have blisters at these times, and I'd like to speed this up. He told me again that the government believes in transport electrification. I say to you: do you consider that we are in the right line and that we are making the right move? We are critical of what is being done or has been done so far in this camp. It's not just because the government hasn't set an example, just because we're slow. In fact, does the government intend to do anything to limit the crossings that at these times the Endesa company is putting at various assemblies respecting the connection of points of rapid recharging? I repeat it again, she advises: we believe that we should seek synergies with the new Government of Spain – she has not contested me – because we believe that the energy transition requires, therefore, to repeat the political leadership of the Government. And at these times – I know it's hard to say it there – we don't just perceive this leadership from the Government of Catalonia; not from you, because it takes a little time in the running, but in the past few years, it does respect these policies. And, I say again, take advantage of the fact that there is now a government in Spain that has made the economic economic transition one of its central vectors, to reach agreement and to unravel some of the problems that we continue to have in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.30.0	Thank you, President. MP, as you rightly say... – I said that my intervention was predictable – as you say, we have just arrived, we are taking this government down. I believe that we have manifested very, very clearly the objectives and challenges that we pose in front of us. I hope that I'll leave us a little margin to value all these elements that you've proven; then you'll judge when we move from words to action... because I assure you that we will. National Pact. This national pact..., the foundations of this pact were approved, and then many of them were included in the Climate Change Act. I said it before – I say it again –: we will talk; these issues are for the economy of our country. We'll talk, we'll discuss it with all the groups, obviously. The answer, therefore: yes. Nuclear power stations. The position of this government – and I answer it very clearly – is that there are no nuclear power stations in 2050. Therefore, the answer is: there will be no centres. No, no, We will not encourage enlargement or the creation of new nuclear power stations. No, no, With regard to whether there will be reindustrialisation policies in areas where nuclear power plants were previously in existence, it is obvious, just as we are in other territories and other conditions where the industry has been clearly altered or there have been exceptional circumstances, because that is what we are already doing in many areas. Promotion of estalvi policies, climate change law, promotion of photovoltaic parks. I've also mentioned it before, in my intervention, but I repeat it: I let go of the action, because I think it's walking where we'll find them. Therefore, to your question of whether we will create dialects, if we speak, if we take up these themes, I have already answered it several times, yes. With regard to relations with the Spanish State, as with the rest of the states, as..., it is obvious, in a global environment, the most direct relationship we have to have..., and we will obviously benefit, if there are interlocutors to the other band receiving the policies, and, in many, sure we can come to terms, from which we want to promote our country, Catalonia. Of course we'll talk about it. We don't pretend to be out of the world; we don't want to be out of the way. It's more, we also think we'll have to talk to other countries where they're more advanced than we are and take reference models. It's these countries, too, where many times we inspire each other. Therefore, if your question..., "will there be an argument in these broad themes? Let's hope so, that there may be. And I was also wondering: wind farms. I've commented. We need to develop – we are aware – this regulation in wind and photovoltaic parks. I have already said to the beginning of my intervention: admit that we are not where we should be, it is the first of the points to start moving forward in this sense. We have admitted, as we are aware, and I have also said that part of this situation is due to the fact that there is a certain legal vacuum or lack of the impulse of regulation, so that we encourage these renewables in these two areas. We'll do it. Therefore, let us allow ourselves some time to work and, obviously, to celebrate that together we can address and direct renewable energy policies in our country jointly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about tourism]] [[300-00016/12]] Let's move on to the next question, which is about tourism. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the question was raised by Mrs Laura Vílchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.32.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, guests. Spanish is a great country. And I don't say it, which I also think, but the World Tourism Organization said it in its last run, which places our country as the second world tourist power, the year 2017, only surpassed for France. Catalonia, as well as this power, enjoys one of the most important touristic offers of the whole State ; an important economic activity that represents approximately 12_percent of GDP and generates approximately 13_percent of the jobs, with data from 2017. For these very dates, but from the past year, we discussed here all that the government could and did not do in tourism. But, despite that, the sector was calm because it trusted in the hopes that it would predict a year of remembering figures. But it came in September. We were touched, after living the terrible storms that struck the cities of Barcelona and Cambrils. And, as soon as you wanted to get to work to start a new course hard, you made the worst mistake a ruler could fall into: skip the laws, climb the rights of more than half the Catalan population, and announce that October would be a lot worse. Well, this year, when the high season of the year is well under way, you will be back at the starting point: without plan, without strategy, without the necessary structure prepared to reverse the situation that only you and your partners have provoked, with the help of those who govern the City of Barcelona, touristically speaking, which is Barcelona. I'll give you objective data. According to the National Institute of Statistics, the month of May 2018 gives a download respect to the same month of the year passed from 2.64_per_cent on behalf of tourists who come to Catalonia as their main destination. The Community of Madrid, however, pushes a 5.35_per_cent. And these data ratify them the Idescat, too. A fact that is obviously not good, but that you must know that it is that we come from a_month of October 2017 where the download of this indicator was in a 4.67 negatiu, when the Community of Madrid bid a 7.16, or the Valencian Community a 6.56_per_cent. Twelve points of difference. And that, Counselor, is not my opinion, they are objective contrasts with the professional sectors of the Catalan tourism sector. And not only in the number of visitors, but the most worrying is that, for example, in November 2017, the tourist's average spending dropped by 4.2_per_cent, while the rest of Spain posted a 10.3. And you know what this data means? So, it's crisis for the sector, and therefore, instability and patience for families that depend on tourism. And that makes the offer suffer a degradation in price, quality, and work places are precarious. All the agents agree on one thing: that all this is given by the political insecurity that is perceived, both national and international; that it affects, as it will also understand, an important sector of the tourist who sees Barcelona, as is the tourist of conventions and conventions. And, as far as you're aware, you know that the effects of this segment we still have to deal with in our own years, given that this type of client is, perhaps, the client who plans and contracts more beforehand, approximately two years ago. So, it's not just displacing businesses, it's also displacing business, with everything that this entails. And in this coincidence that everyone in the sector shares, that it's nothing other than the bad image and the speeches that issue messages that are denied, they have a lot to see their governing partners. Because, if we already knew the totality of the CUP, of which we have seen attacks on tourist buses of Barcelona, or punching wheels of bicycles of lloger, or attacks directly to hotels of the city of Barcelona, we now have to see how it is added to the Republican Left party. Madam Councillor, your governing partners are sending negative messages against tourism, rebuffing tourism, which clearly do a lot of harm to the image and to Barcelona's capacity to gather. Condemn you, Counselor, these attitudes? Do you plan to take action on respect? Do you think that the families that make up their lives with activities related to tourism have to hold up this campaign of tourism that makes their jobs as much as their businesses, especially in the city of Barcelona? I don't know what you're going to answer, Counselor, but I'm afraid you won't have any strong answers for my questions, because your governments are used to inaction in this matter. But you think you don't just have to answer to me – do this exercise – you have to answer to the companies and workers in the sector who are patenting this tourist uncertainty that you have generated. Or maybe he'll tell them the very same thing that you gave to the companies that had to leave Catalonia because of the government's fatal decisions, that you would tell them if they were to give a prize. What do we do, counsel? Who do we give the prize to? Do we give it to you and your predecessors, who have caused more than four thousand marsin businesses in Catalonia? No, Counselor, you can't rule for a few. And neither can those who suffer from their decisions. I do not say anything again if I say that this government in the field of tourism finds, as I said, asleep, quickly believe, as it benefits from inertia; it contrasts, in fact, with the country of the sector, that it is dynamic, very sensitive to geopolitical events and with tourists every time more demanding. Do you know, counsel, what various and many agents of the sector answer when they ask what the Administration of the Generality does in the field of tourism? So answer that nothing – answer that nothing. And I believe that, because, as I was commenting on the principle, with all the data that I have facilitated, we have to add that we do not have a strategic plan since 2016– since then it has lapsed– the Tourism Table must be reactivated urgently – that it duplicates, in fact, functions with which it already exists in the State, by the way – we have an inter-departmental tourism commission of which there are no news, we have a tourism fund, which we do not know what to do with the tourist tax refund. Maybe it'd be hot if he were to wake up. And we're talking about promotion, the promotion that's in charge of the Catalan Tourist Agency. Do you think, counsel, that the promotion that is being made by this agency is designed to reverse the image that is being given to the world and the consequences of all folded? Honestly, don't you think that he could be doing or that he could be doing something else, with what he's doing and what he's falling for? And what about the ghost decree, the famous Catalonia Tourism Decree? Can you tell us when they'll keep it? Because this decree has already passed through the hands of four different advisors. Have you agreed with the sector on such urgent issues as the regulation of tourist apartments? I hope in this matter I can answer, Counselor. Has your department thought of any specific activities for family tourism, for tourism adapted to people with disabilities? Have you met, for example, with collectors who held Barcelona as a world referent, such as the LGTBI collection, to listen to their requests in the field of tourism, for example? As you see, counselor, there are many questions, there are many questions. It is not only the strategy that needs to be reconsidered, which at these times is non-existent, but the model needs to be reoriented. We want to know what his tourist model is, since we have the feeling that he improvises it, and about not reacting when he needs it. We want a more innovative, sustainable, digital and quality offer, as quality must be their place of work. Demostri, therefore, will advise, that what really matters to him are the enterprises of the sector and the more than 450,000 workers that fall from it, and that it will not allow the criminalization of the sector in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.33.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, you have the word "adviser."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.34.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, well, it was very predictable, wasn't it? That the trial is to blame for all the evils. Talk. Let's talk about chives, too. A sector that..., we are very and very aware of its importance. It is a sector that generates 11_percent of GDP in Catalonia, 13_percent of the jobs in Catalonia, and it is a sector..., and already the context of entry and first: I do not subscribe to attacks on tourists. We did defend a certain model of tourism – and now we'll talk about it – but I don't subscribe to it... I asked a question and I answer it, very directly. Last year, if we talk about 2017 data, 19,7_million tourists from all over the year, which is 3,4_per_cent more than the year 2016. True, last quarter there were 3.6_million visitors, a 3.3_per_cent less than last year. And it's also true that this quarter fell to the rest of the Spanish state. You were telling us that this fall is all about the instability or... the atmosphere of political instability that was there. I would say that it is because of the environment of instability caused by the images, the terrible images of the police discharges of October 1st, and obviously, also..., and we did not see the storm of August 17th of last year. I believe that these elements, these images do strike and transmit an image of social insecurity, at the level of social alert, of Catalonia. These catastrophic prognosticisms that then erupted with 30_percent cash invoicing, etc., as it later passed, with themes of industrial GDP, so they did not complement each other, and I said before: an increase of 3,4_per_cent in the number of visitors. Mes ciphers of the year 2017. We have ciphers remembering dinosaurs of tourists who made an expenditure of 19,182_million euros. The most uplifting element is that it grew much higher, at the entrance level. Tickets– not the name of tourists, tickets– grow in a 9.2_per_cent, and before the name of visitors. Therefore, very important not only the quantity, but the level of entrances that the tourists leave in our territory. In 2017, the tourism sector in Catalonia has concentrated 13.8_percent of the total number of jobs in Catalonia, as in the past, with 458,000 people, both working on their own and on their own. From October to April 2018, we have already reached the xifra of 7,973_million billing, a 3.7_per_cent more increase, and in the generation period to April 2018, an increase of 7,4_per_cent. Therefore, the negative figures were in a very concrete period; and, I repeat, I referred to before what can be the elements that cause it. Regarding the specific follow-up of the Spanish market, gener-maig, and hotel nights. We wanted to make a specific follow-up of the Spanish market, the resident, and also a comparison with other peninsular destinations; for example, the Valencia Country, Andalusia and Murcia, to set an example, not to speak only of the figures relating to Catalonia. We cannot pay too much attention to the behavior of the months of March and April, because they have just had a behavior of communicating vessels, but if we fix attention to the generation, fever and more to Catalonia and the Valencia Country, they have a behavior to the bass in all these three_months; in Andalusia, only the fever, and in the case of Múrcia, the month of May. In addition, if we also incorporate the foreigners into the analysis, we see that, in the period of gener-maig, we have reached the low Lands of Ebro, Costa Daurada, Costa de Barcelona, Costa de la Luz, Costa Blanca, Costa del Azahar and Cadis; other destinations. We have found the Costa d'Almeria – Tropical – and the Costa Brava, falling very much into detail. With regard to the activities at the Catalan airports from October to May 2018, Barcelona has had a dynamic activity markedly upwards at the Barcelona airport joint, Reus and Girona, and the month joint that we have always had a higher behavior than in the previous year. In Barcelona, in these eight_months, there was a movement of 29 million passengers, an increase of 6,18_per_cent; Girona, an increase of 5,92_per_cent, and Reus, of 10,76_per_cent. During this period, we have also seen companies announce new routes or expansion of their activity. If we are as attractive as the destination, as the tourist agent, at the international level, we are far short of these international companies predict increasing the number of flights. To Prat, for example, to put some data from March to October, Vueling plans to create a 12_per_cent; Ryanair, a 9_per_cent; Norwegian, a 13_per_cent; new routes to London, Shannon, Beijing, Boston, etc. If we value the snow season – because for us not all the tourism is Barcelona, not all the tourism is concentrated territorially; we understand that there must be, therefore, a wide distribution of all the Catalan territory, the snow season in Lleida, the alpine ski resorts of the Pirineu de Lleida tank on April 15, with 1,3_million forefets coming this season and an influx of skiers higher than last year. Very good behavior of the stations also managed by Ferrocarrils: Molina, Vall de Núria, Espot, Port Ané. The one you used to pass on to us, right? That you're worried about tourism, the generation of economy that tourism brings... Miri, it's also an objective fact. Did you know that Barcelona was the world leader in the city of congresses in 2017? It also received an international recognition for this effect..., 2017–2017 – last year, this past year. Barcelona is, to give an example, also, therefore, the fifth city – fourth, now – attractive in the creation of start-ups and business tourism. It's a date a lot and a lot of time ago. So it was the behaviour of coastal tourism. Forecasts of June-to-December activities, which we are predicting. From a year that was, I said before, an exceptional growth. Do you know that you can also influence and are influencing the reduction of the number of reservations, the fact that some destinations on the Mediterranean coast are beginning to be operational, markets that until now have been closed in these past years, as could be Turkey, Tunisia, etc.? Do you know that there is also a travel of tourists to these markets? And it is that to the destinations of the Catalan coast is where there is a greater discrepancy between the actors at the time of offer and make appreciation of the exercise. We say, too, the unique case of the Costa Brava, where there has been until now a growth for what it does to reservations. In Barcelona city, according to data from the cluster, a decrease of approximately 10_percent in hotel invoicing has been detected between generation and May. Here, and we admit it, there is a similar tonic with what remains of year; but, as I said, we understand that not all the tourism is Barcelona and not all the tourism is to be developed in the Catalan territory. Regarding Creaist activities, Palamós and Roses expect 57,000 passengers and an increase of 26_per_cent of Creaists. Tarragona expects 80,000 passengers and an increase of 59_per_cent of activity. Therefore, we are also transferring the activity of the Creuers so that it is not concentrated only in the port of Barcelona. With regard to the Tourism and Marketing Plan – I have a short time left, I will use it later in the reply – the National Tourism Plan has been working with the agents – precisely in one hour I will meet with all the agents linked to the tourism sector, and we will talk, among other things, about the momentum of this plan. We've got the plan, we'll share it, we'll work at the level, so, parliamentarians, but we also have the marketing plan. Therefore, the idea that everything is a disaster, that we have done nothing, can go guarding it because not everything is a disaster or we have done nothing. I think the Tourism Plate is not an example, that they can prove, and the Marketing Plate too. But, I repeat, in the reply, so I will already expose it in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs Vílchez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.36.0	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam will advise, you too are very predictable in the answers to my questions. As for the attacks you said that also... in the attacks on Barcelona against tourist activities... I also asked him if he was planning to take action. Because the image I was teaching you... those who promote these attacks are sure of you to the government. I have also asked him what steps he should take, or whether he wants to take or intends to do so. He didn't tell me about cultural tourism, for example. Tell your website that this year 2018 is the year of cultural tourism, the year of culture. Do they have any action in the matter of cultural tourism? Because, for the time being, the only one we've seen has been a trip from the president and his friends to a folk festival in Washington, or, better said, to blow up acts at a folk festival in Washington. [[Greetings.]] He will agree with me that it will not be possible to use the boycott of cultural acts, such as homenatge, which they did not condemn, in Cervantes, which was celebrated at the University of Barcelona, as a form of promotion of Catalan cultural tourism. Is this the strategy? Denigrate the Catalan institutions and embarrass many Catalans where they're going? Or will you be the advisor of the CDRs against tourism? Will it really continue to allow plating to be converted into ideological cement? Would it please you, like a tourist, to go to a platter like this? What do they pretend, that they don't come back, that the tourists don't come? Don't you think it might be more interesting to think about actions like digitalization of cultural heritage? To me, at least, it seems much more useful, I don't know what you'll think of it. Talk about the push of activity at Prat; grow up, but at the cost of what? Grows up at the expense of lowering prices to keep the billing going. So I didn't fool us, advise us, with these ciphers. Talk about entrances as well – entrances. I'll talk to him about the entrances, too. A study published yesterday – yesterday – by Comunicatur told us that the overnight stays of the client who sees the rest of Spain have fallen a quarter of a million – a quarter of a million – and this means that the tickets do not refuse for Catalan hotels, only from generation to May, amount to 20,600,000_euros. Imagine..., imagine what would come out if we made an estimate of the whole year; so, approximately 55_million euros. He didn't tell me about family tourism, he talked a lot about it. Maybe we should think that it's a segment that they could plan to boost. Family tourism, which is an increasing trend, is moving more than €16,000_million in the year, and Spain is a leading destination in this type of tourism. The certification issued by the Catalan Tourist Agency for the destination of family tourism is very good and we share the strategic need to value this niche market, but it has to be much... much more ambitious – much more. We applaud the new campaign, in this sense, of "Hello, family! , which we have seen on your web, because I answer to a request from our group last legislature, which we see some result. But, let's go back to it, we must seek to be more ambitious, more perfectionist, we must seek excellence in the campaigns, not cover the process. We talk about mature destinations, not just Barcelona; mature destinations from all over the Catalan territory. For these destinations, it is no longer only important, as I said, the volume of tourists who are in peak periods, but in some cases, this volume is already unsustainable, but the demand of the tourist who causes him to help himself reinvent himself, to improve his attractiveness to grow in added value and adapt to the capacity of absorption of the destination and to negotiate with the operators to be able to flow. It will also have proposals in my own group in this House. We, to finish, already, have tried, with this exposure, to open their eyes, to make them see everything the Administration can do and not do for one of the most important economic activities in Catalonia. In the next seat...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.37.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.38.0	... – I have finished – he will return our proposals, and I offer myself from here to work with you; but that day come determined, come brave, come with the will to seek solutions and do not follow the problem. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the reply, you finally have the word "counsel".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.40.0	Thank you very much. Talk about opening eyes. You look at a reality that Catalonia has a living, dynamic, changing, innovative economic activity, and tourism is no less. If you dedicate half, only half, of your energies, instead of taking pits and talking about disasters and catastrophes... – why has it also passed in the sector, in the element of industrial economic activity, eh? – so much alarmism, if you just dedicate a part of that energy to working and promoting the position that our territory has, I think we'd all win. Well, talk about disaster and talk about inactivity; tell me we haven't dealt with family tourism. Well, I understand that you want to manifest this version, but obviously that's not true. I was telling him that this year 2017, and as soon as you know all the details, two new documents have been prepared: one is the strategic plan and the other, the marketing plan of the tourism of Catalonia, which replaced the previous ones that were there. These plans include actions from 2018 to 2022, because we understand that as a powerful tourism sector – we have it clear, I have mentioned before the figures – a sector that defines its development according to the criteria of environmental sustainability, economically, socially and culturally. Therefore, to pretend that we have cultural tourism is that I don't know and don't know where to get it. And, obviously, then, you can prove that absolutely that's true. It is a model that we want to generate occupation, quality occupation, with fair remuneration. We also want a model that favors the temporal redistribution and decentralisation of activity to the interior, which stimulates territorial balance. There were different initials. And I'll get him a copy of this plan so you can see all the proposals that come back. We also understand that it is necessary to attend to the diversity of the country, a geographical, cultural diversity and that at all levels it wants to integrate this tourism plan. A model that focused on generated tickets and tourist volumes. You were talking to me right now about some things I don't know. I haven't said a few more, but, in the end and in the end, as has happened so many times, when we value the whole year and with objective figures, so we can draw conclusions. We also understand that innovation... this government has created a digital policy consultancy. How do you admit or claim that digitalisation does not include tourism? I think it's more obvious that digitization is a cross-cutting element... And, obviously, the new technologies incorporated into tourism, so I understand that it's more than obvious. We also understand that this new model must stimulate participation, governance favours participation. A model that also generates opportunities for other productive sectors, because obviously, with experience, no longer tourism but also buying, we create synergies with other sectors. We also want it to be developed harmoniously to the territories and their residents. We are preparing, too, very soon, this regulation, this regulation. I've already told you, I've been meeting with representatives of the tourism sector for a few moments. But obviously we have to regulate the issue of residences and housing supply. We understand that we have in value, we have in value the effects of tourism, not of any tourism. We have a clear-cut model. We also want a much more social side of this tourism. And also speaking of figures – and with these endings –, the increase in international tourism spending of a 35_per_cent this period 2013-2017, above 35_per_cent, and the tourist spending increases by 39_per_cent in these years. I'm sorry, they won't like these figures. Follow with his tremundism, catastrophism, negativity. We are working to develop the tourism sector in Catalonia. And here I hope, therefore, as I offered them, to find us and push him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on health policy]] [[300-00012/12]] Finished this item on the agenda, let us turn to item 6, which is the question to the Government on health policy, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose the inquiry, the honourable Member has the word Escarp for a period of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.42.0	Thank you. MPs, MPs, I'd like to start with an update, we'd say. This morning we woke up when the news broke, too, that the Abidal explayer had rejected in a way..., it is not known what had happened to the subject of his transplantation. And the truth is, I felt like I was making an inquiry about salvation and not referring to that, so there was no point. And so, first of all, let me tell you that I hope you're not right, and I sincerely hope so. I'm convinced that I..., and the counselor will share my criteria, too..., but in any case, she will advise, yes she does ask her to have the whole cure, that the department will investigate if, in a referral hospital like the Clinic and with a system like the transplant system, it could have produced any..., I wouldn't say a fraud, but clearly an illegality. I don't know whether they later denied it or not, but in any case, I expressed my concern because I was in the media today. Well, in any case, she advises, for what she does to the inquiry, the other day you made the presentation at the committee about her objectives, and about, a little, the actions that the department wants to carry out. I believe that, for what makes the diagnosis, we all agree; we agree in the empowerment of the two spheres, public greetings and assistance, and above all we agree in giving this absolutely community-based vision, which is what we need to empower. We're talking about the social determinants, a vision that I work in the network, that I'm connected to the territory, and that somehow also adapts the care services to all the social, economic and demographic changes that are produced. We said the other day: the outcome of the crisis is not the same for everyone; inequalities in salvation are increasing, and the poor, unfortunately, continue to do much harm among the youngest of seven years in Catalonia. There is that phrase that emerges in a proper report of the department: "Salvation and the poor are hereten. But I demand that we do not resign ourselves to this statement. Here we say that the structures and needs of the people have changed. We have overcrowded, increased hope of life, by lot; also by fate, increased index of oncology survival. It's still good news. But at times it causes more chronicity, more multipathology, processes of rejuvenation, and, therefore, different care needs and above all many community needs. As you see, we agree on the diagnosis, and, as we said to you, man, it's a little disappointing the lack of proposal on how to act. It is very good to talk about unique strategies, to build a friendly world or to call for summits to plan the future needs of professionals, but I would like to advise, that we can talk about reversing the present, marking affordable priorities, that we can..., or you can analyze all the plans you have on the march, tell us where we are in everything, with what costs and what we need or what we have to address the needs. And at the same time ask him to make a multi-year plan of presupposed scenes with the clear will of presuppositional recovery for such a reversal. And then we talk about the paradigm shift: what is the future of the system, how we make sustainability, how we move on to a custom medicine based on genomics, how we make the new law and how we seek consensus with political forces – you have to look for it, as I did the other day. I insist that I give it to you, we come from five years of retail and two years of powerpoints, and that's really hard to reverse, and here we are. The retail has affected mainly the services, in the form of reduced beds, closed plants, horary cuts, specialists... what does it do? Less increase from the wait lists. Last December there was a delay between five and thirty days to a scheduled visit to the headmaster. The details affected the professional, sous, DPOs, precariousness, not substitutions, but it is that, look, I will return to a given: the total salary mass of faculty and nurses of the year 2010 was higher in 115_millions than it is now at this time. And they are given an answer to a question that has been asked to the councillor. And it's been ten years, the seven, the eight. Therefore, the needs have increased and it is assumed that we have repositioned. And we're still 115 million apiece. And the other issue that also arises repeatedly is the issue of infrastructure. There has been no reversal, there has been no renewal of equipment maintenance and it is estimated that 10_percent of the equipment is obsolete. Look, I'll tell you two things: the only renewal there has been of the apparatus followed by the Zaratrons, which, in the words of Zaratrons, the radiotherapy apparatus that the owner of Zara, with the 78_millions that have touched Catalonia, have been destined to the hospitals; 330 to all Spain, 78 to Catalonia, but only to radiotherapy. But do you know what's going on down in the river these days? At Baix Llobregat these days, as mammography equipment has spread, so there is no cracking. And, therefore, at this moment we have the gifts of Sant Feliu, Esplugues and Cornellà that they do not have new visits because there is no cracking because there are no machines because they have spread. And then they tell them to send them a mobile unit, which, as far as I know, yesterday they still don't have. As I was saying, Counselor, we're in the form of a ten-year supply. The highest assumption in salvation was held in 2010, and then we were at €1,300 per capita; now we are at 1,186, and at that time we set a target of 1,500. Therefore, we have, and we can only do so in truth with a multi-year scenario of presuppositional recovery and that the Generalitat has more than this 30 and is now destined for Salut in the Generalitat's presupposition. Therefore, I ask this cure in the presupposition of 2019. Because it's obvious that the excellence of Catalan sanitation, which is that we all don't fill our mouths– I also, because I believe it–, which has great strands, which is at the same level as the best in areas such as oncology, point treatments or imaginative surgery, has a basis; the base that sustains it can be broken, and that would be very hard. We have a problem day by day, the people we expect, the professional crematotes or the obsolete infrastructure. And today, Counselor, I would like to focus on the waiting lists, which made it very clear to me that you didn't make any reference when even all President Torra in that government program also made a little difference. And, therefore, I want to think that not to talk to him about the problem disappears. The problem is, and we can't simplify a list management. Because the integral plan for the better of the lists of health care waiters, which had a much diminished presuppositional contribution, had some objectives that have not been fulfilled. If we were to reduce the waiting time for surgery by 10 percent, then we're talking that we've managed to lower a 0.4 percent of the people we're waiting for. It is true that in some things we have done some better but we have managed the list, we have not addressed the problem of the time people are waiting for; the time they expect to be part of the waiting list or the time they are in shape, which is already on the list, and there are some changes. Because the first mistake is that we continue to count from what is program and not from the day the primary meth makes the clinical decision of the derivative. So, actually, in the end, we don't know how long they're waiting. In this Parliament we have approved many motions; tomorrow I hope that we do not approve another one where there is also some reference to issues such as the issue of waiting lists, apart from the fact that there are other more general issues. And I would like it to continue, to continue to demand those motions calling for the repeal of the Department's order that would cause the guarantee time to be lost. Because the warranty time means that you will have to be given an hour to the primary school with forty-four hours, and that you can't be more than forty-four hours in an emergency, and that somehow, if you can't be served in the warranty time, you will be looking for an alternative from the public system. Why, counsel, can you assure me that the maximum term of a _month is complete because the cancelled intervention or scheduled visits are done? I'm saying, no; I can't be sure why they're deprogramming and not reprogramming. Therefore, he will advise, the topic of waiting lists and waiting not only is a problem of transparency of the lists. It's true, now you get in and you know everything in the waiting list every month, but you also know, and you know as well as I do, that there are lower and higher levels of production that reduce the waiting time, that the concerted centres use the lists to negotiate with the CatSalut, that there are redirections that give down the list and then when it's a woman from high is when it counts again, that transparency is very good but it has to reflect reality. But I, counsel, would ask you to get out of this analysis only from the transparency of the waiting lists and that we can really talk about a plate of rock. And a plan of action is to open operating rooms, that is to say professional, that is to say complementary services, but it is to say approach the 164,000 people or 160,000 that we still have to the waiting list pending surgical intervention, and that this is, will advise, if we tank beds, as always is done, if we do what..., therefore, the waiting list will increase, not in doubt, while I am convinced that we will be able to see it in transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's the counselor's turn, it's the lady Vergés turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.44.0	Well, good morning to everyone and everyone. Thank you very much, Mrs Escarp. Well, I'll start at the end, for waiting lists, for which you insist that you want to work well in this inquiry and in this young man, and tell him that we have clear principles for which we have to govern the management of waiting lists. The first, obviously, when we talk about accessibility must be this fairness: that citizens on the waiting list, at the same clinical and social situation – that this is also an incorporation of the last few years, taking social criteria into account at the time of the waiting lists–, must tend to wait the same time – citizens with the same clinical and social situation must tend to wait the same time. Citizens, regardless of whether they are visquins, must also have access with this fairness to the services on the waiting list. Obviously, transparency, that I don't want to leave, but that's not all, and you're right about that. And this proactivity also, which has been tried to incorporate, in the ability to offer alternatives, as you said, to people who before the end of the waiting time, not only the guarantee, but also the prescribed reference, can have a solution. The takeover from primary care, and the better quality of the records we have. It is also important to know these records that we have, with what quality we have, to face the best we have to do. And it's true that we come from a history, a history of orders, decrees. When 2002 a maximum of access terms were established for fourteen surgical procedures, at that time, with a basic criterion..., according to the criteria of greater volume of patients, not so much a clinical criterion or of priority assistance. And, on the other hand, on the orders of 2015 they already incorporated this criterion of clinical relevance, if these procedures are extended from fourteen to twenty-seven in the case of guarantees, but more than thirty to nine days, maximum terms of reference are fixed for all the remaining surgical interventions, from the norm to 365 days; for diagnostic tests, from thirty to nine days; for visits to external consultations, from thirty to nine days, and for visits to the primary meth of care, from forty-four hours. The order exists and it is certain that, for example, in the case you have commented on, primary care, sometimes it is not complete. It's not most of the time, and we also have to say, in order not to give a wrong message, but it's true that we have to work because this can always be done, because precisely because there are these orders of government, follow orders, follow instructions, or whatever it is, on behalf of the Health Department. And also analyze these variables, because it is certain that in many primary care centers in Catalonia it is complete with these forty-four hours. And to say another thing, that we are the only country, in Catalonia, that also fixes these terms of reference; this does not happen to other territories of the Spanish State either. And a new instruction, which was incorporated in 2016, of the CatSalut, in this case, on actions and information, which is relevant, which must be made available to people included in the surgical waiting list registers of the Català Health Service. This is very important, this proactivity towards the citizenry is taking place in the waiting time of these people, it is not only the weekly update of the data of the waiting list registers by the hospitals, which is required, but the delivery to the patients, the delivery to the people, of a surgical intervention information document at the time of entering the waiting list, indicating the term of guarantee or reference, as the case may be. Not because it is not a term of guarantee that means that this term is not indicated, and that the citizenry does not need to know, do not need to know and cannot say either: "Listen, I want and must be operated, operated, in that term. And this communication from the same hospitals, the alternatives of intervention, fifteen days before the end of the reference time in case it doesn't happen..., that it can't be completed or that it can't be given out to its situation. This also happens in reference time. And CatSalut, because it is, in the end, the one that must continue to guarantee and be an active part of this process..., let's not leave everything to the centers, but the CatSalut in part, of the organization, and of the guarantee for the citizenry. And it is true that the integral plan of better waiting lists put not only on the table, but it started many of these procedures, with a balance that yes, that above all put emphasis on the reduction of time..., we do not speak so much of this number of patients, but of what it is expected, of which it lasts, of whether it responds to criteria or is absolutely inadequate. And, therefore, I think it's important to say that 43,4_per_cent for the first visit with a specialist was reduced time, and that it was reduced by 40_per_cent time also for diagnostic testing and that the reduction of the surgical list of patients in the waiting list, of time, was also 10,4_per_cent. And, not to be alarmists either, to note that 95_percent of the people waiting to be operated on, is to say, in the case of surgery, they are within the stipulated terms. That doesn't mean that we stop worrying about the 5_per_cent, I'm telling you that we won't stop worrying about the 5 or the rest of 95 per..., it wasn't necessary to get away. And that, in this line, we will work from the Health Department, with all the complications and the complexity that there is, for the management not only of the waiting lists, but of the whole system and of the whole department, the Cat Salut and the entities that fall from it. The rate of surgical intervention has also intensified. I mean, the whole plan of improvement actually did an intensification so that it could achieve these results, with an increase in activity, and that's why I don't see the data you gave me the other day, right? , to be the third autonomous community for the cua. How do we have so much or more activity than other places and continue to have a waiting list? I want to know the criteria that in other territories – if you go with a comparison – they are on the table, because I do know our criteria, not because I know them, but because I know them all about the city and because they are public, because they publish the lists every month, and because the activity in relation to this has increased. And, therefore, we try, at the time of comparison, that the data can be squared and, above all, that can be comparable. Because this increase in activity, which exceeded the 22_percent that there was in 2011, so, it was the first year of the crisis and it was..., and because they have prioritized themselves, too, you give procedures with a major list of expectations, such as knees, raids, umbilical hernias, morbid obesity, in which, in some of them, we are not yet where we would certainly be. And this better of the system's proactiveness in the 2016 instruction, the more transparent, with this monthly publication of the waiting lists per center, which you can consult, that makes what we're talking about right now, at this second stage, I would say, is to be able to talk about the quality of these records. And I already told the other day, Members and Members, that they have commissioned quality external audits of these lists of waiting lists, that we are also pioneers in this, that it is done and is done for all the hospital centers, in which some have already finished, these audits. And that these quality external audits of the registers will serve us to analyze many things about these objectives in which we base ourselves, which are: to see the variables, to propose better in this list management and better in the future, to complete the general objective, which is..., to stop making a management based on the given freda, to make a management of the lists based on the person's experience, because not all people waiting have the same degree of severity, not all people waiting, wait in the same circumstances – different ages, working, people... –, and not all people will present the same best clinic after the intervention, which are things that must also be taken into account. The working lines in the work of the lists are very clear: variables that influence accessibility, the review of reference time and the person-centred assessment. And as I'm running out of time now, I'll also explain this to you in more detail in the second intervention and I can also point out some of the other things that you mentioned to me in your first intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. The answer is the congresswoman's turn...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.46.0	Thank you, President. No, I, two previous things, counsel, before..., take advantage of the five minutes; that. See, you were talking about the quality of the registry and that they're pioneers in the registry... you know? I would love it if in this country we were pioneers in not having the citizens of Catalonia waiting, to be part of a waiting list. So that in these criteria we enter what we don't expect to be waiting for; because, somehow, I think that's what's going on. You said you don't know which criteria are used to compare autonomous communities. Look, I already told him the other day, I imagine they have to discuss, among other things, the criteria, to the Interterritorial Council, and tell him again that we were very disappointed that you were not there. But anyway, I'm sure they're there, because, come on, I'm out of official publications, just like any deputy or deputy or their department's technical services. With the topic of waiting time, Counselor, I think we have a basic difference, and that..., respects a difference also from what this Parliament has approved. Parliament said that it had to repeal the decree establishing reference times and that all reference times passed in time were guaranteed. And that's what's not fulfilled. And that's the basic phonetic difference, because you pass the compliment of reference time when, in reality, we're talking about guaranteeing time. Because guaranteeing time means that it generates a right and that right that it generates, is what you have right..., you demand it, because you can do the intervention in another place or you can attend. Therefore, we continue to fail to comply with the resolutions of this Parliament, in which it was established that the decree should be repealed, and that while it is not done, the reference time is complicated, which is not complete. Because this decree – and we said this in the previous legislature – is a certain trap in the background, going from fourteen to twenty-seven procedures, but it is that I am among the procedures that were already given for guarantees, because they were the priority procedures. Review 'his decree of 2015 and truly comply. Because here is the basis of the waiting lists; here is the basis of our demand, which is to guarantee time and not to go with reference time. And then there's another theme, I was talking about making a presuppositional scene, but it's that, listen, if we don't want to increase the visits to the specialists, and we're always talking about taking over primary care, tell me if this year, in the presupposition of 2019, they're going to dedicate to primary 20 percent of the presupposition, and not 16, which is what there was lately, and which is what it's asking. Tell me if you will actually install scanners on the CAP – which is only fifty-seven – which makes it possible to do the diagnosis and do not need to be derived? Do you say'ms' if, in any way, they are able to intervene in the specialist's agenda and, therefore, prioritize with clinical criteria whether or not they already enter the waiting lists? This is really taking over the primary, not what we're doing, which..., is to say, gather us together, but more than anything else. You're talking to me about the forty-eight hour compliment. Listen, forty-four hours in the CAP can be given in many moments; I assure you that this summer will not be given to many CAPs in Catalonia. Because the coverage you've provided for the CAPs in Catalonia, and I think we're talking about it, too, isn't enough. And it's not enough in many areas of Catalonia. Fem una..., because neither the increment nor the chord..., we will go back to the self-covering. And the self-covering, you know it generates the waiting list in the primary meth, because that's it. And while we're having problems in the primary, or so, like the Plan, the emergency room. The Emergency Board did not manage to exceed forty-eight hours of state in emergencies either. Because, somehow... I already know, that it's difficult and I don't ask him to do it today tomorrow, just as we never asked Councilman Comín – what I never imagined was that he wouldn't do it ever – but in some way by the year ahead of us. I think it would be good to do it. Because I always put the same to me, and I also gave it the other day: how is it possible that in Catalonia, a 38_per_cent of the population has double coverage? Why are there so many people who end up leaving the public and going to the private, if it's not because we get tired of waiting? No, I don't, huh? , which I have only public; I speak in plural, but no. But it's true that there are a lot of people who... why do they give him the opportunity? "Home, if you go to the private, so easily we can do it before. Because there is a double list – and you know it – and because a lot of people end up going to private sanitation, because to the public, even though it is a system of excellence, and you recognize it, people know that their intervention can last a barbarity, and, therefore, it is a little thing that has been planted. The whole plan was set objectives, but, escorted, it is also true that, of the 90_million initially planned, there were not even 40 dedicated. And it is true that there has been a certain increase, but neither professional nor complementary services have been increased. You talk to any doctor, any surgeon, and you say, "No, it's that this month we've already completed the goals, and the hospital won't let me operate any more. This is a reality and you know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, it's the councilwoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.48.0	Thank you, President. Member of the Commission, I said to him: "I will specify the current working lines in the management of the waiting list, because I think they are uplifting and I think they agree with the petitions that this Parliament makes and agree with what society in general wants, which is, first: study of the variables that influence accessibility. Do we have to reduce the variability in the indication, as we also spoke to the Health Committee the other day? Yeah. The best way to see it is to keep these records with quality, to see the variability, what happens here, what happens to another place and how the centers can go by solving these variables. Increase the resolution capacity of primary care; we also insist on it. We also insist, and there is work in all the primary care strategy in this sense. Increase the figure of the person responsible for accessibility in hospital centres. This responsible person has created an end to the integral platform of better waiting lists, and we still want to enhance this figure, because it is important to continue to analyze accessibility in the list and in our centers of the people who depend on it, and to study this accessibility with a gender perspective, which we also tried to introduce into the Health Commission, because there is inequality, and we need to know why this inequality exists, we need to study it, we need to analyze it and we need to put in place the appropriate measures so that this accessibility also has this gender perspective. Second: yes, provision of reference time for surgical procedures and consultations with specialists. I have commissioned CatSalut to carry out this review with clinical criteria and participation not only of expert persons, but also of users – also of users –, of reference time, of selected procedures; it is to say, review of reference time, of selected procedures..., also already advanced, we cannot make a first review of all procedures, but these same expert and user persons select some procedures in order to be able to have a first conclusion, as very late, in the first quarter of 2019. And that's what I think it's important to do. We can talk about the orders, but if we have to talk about some revision or repeal them directly, I think we have to do this job, and we haven't done the job yet. Third: impact on the user as much of the hope as of the end result, is to say, this assessment of this waiting centered on the person. The impact of hope... not all people who are on the list have exactly the same conditions as before or as vital, and this must help to make a better priority, all these social components that we have also tried to introduce into the management of the waiting lists, because it is a study of this process based on the PROMs and PREMs, which is a technique that is now being used, but it is based on the experience of the person, the patient, and also based on the result. And I think that here we need to see this impact of hope and, above all, continue to bring about transparency, and transparency always in favor of the better management of lists; study the results of these audits of the quality of the registers; make the communication relevant to different levels, because I ensure that these results that we get from the audits of the registers, in the end, are translated into a better and in these processes of improvement in the management of many centers for pathology, and, obviously, that they actually have this impact for everyone. For what he refers to the Enapisc, the primary attention and all that he asks me, so yes, of course, we put a lot of emphasis on the national primary care strategy; I said, "The best thing to do is to implement these plans. The primary attention as a vertebrator, no longer written in a paper, but trying to put it into practice, and obviously this will have to be accompanied by all the measures that make it possible in the own not only assumptions, because this is not all, but we would certainly like, when we talk about assumptions and resources, to recognize also the high level that we have to think that the financing of this country, when the interference of the State ceases to be there, with the help of deficiencies – and here you, if you want and gain, can help us –..., which generates this country in order to put these policies of salvation into operation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.49.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.50.0	...social policies, we'd get a lot better out of it. So, I'm sure I'll keep it next door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on health and gender]] [[300-00014/12]] We continue with the following inquiry, which is about salvation and genera. Presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, exposes the inquiry to Ms Gemma Espigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.52.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., councillor, divenders passed, at their appearance, explained to us the deployment of the new plans with a general perspective, from the Pla de salut 2016-2020. In March, the department that you lead also published the Guide to the introduction of the gender perspective in the planning of salvation. And you know very well the Members of this House that the Group of the Republic is concerned about us and takes up the perspective of gender; also, by luck, other groups in this Parliament, and it seems that not so much to others, that they did not like that Constable Artadi spoke in female at their appearance or that they are demanding a joint government from us, while they only propose men for the Bureau of the Parliament. But that is not the case with our parliamentary group. We, therefore, bet for women also as directors, as mayors, as was the first mayor, the Yarza Nativity, also from a municipality in its region of Anoia, as it was on the 21st of December with the zipper list, as it was proposing it to you yourself at the Bureau of Parliament, and now Companion Delgado, or against the masculist struggle, patriarchy, glass brawls, salary and so many other issues. But today, counsel, our struggle, always peaceful, is to include this prospect of genera also in the planning of salvation. And we want to do that because women are sickly different, our body is expressed with different signs and symptoms the alert, we suffer differently, we live differently, we heal differently, and we also die differently. And I told them that we're getting sick differently, and I don't know what you're saying, you're saying scientific evidence. And you say that because women suffer three times more diagnosed depressions than men, because women suffer from more cases of fibromyalgia for every man than they do. And for this, counsel, we ask you not only that account is taken of the prevalence of malalties at the time of devoting resources to it, but that this prevalence is also segmented by sex. I also told them that our body shows different signs of alert, and again I don't say it, I say it scientific evidence. If I speak of pain in the pit, of cream, of pessimism in the arm or of weakness, or, well, for another gang, I speak of cream in the abdomen, of tidal and of panic disease, the professionals of salvation, and also of the population, they have taught us that the first, the pain in the pit, the pessimile, the cream, are signs of infarct, and in change, the second, the cream in the abdomen, the tidal or the pain in the pan, they have taught us that it is anguish or that it is indigestion. The first requires palliative care and, therefore, is admitted to the hospital, and the second, often, anxiolytic medication and rests at home. Well, both the first and second are signs of infarct, and the difference is that the first are signs of infarct in men and second, in women. And as I said, I'm not saying it, I'm saying it too: "Women don't know how to recognize an infraction, but it's one of the most important causes of death among women, because the symptoms are different. And, as the Society of Cardiology says, in most cases women don't know that they're painting an infarct, because they don't understand the pain the society has taught us to perceive how to infarct, and they don't get to the hospital, and they have a much harder prognosis than men. Therefore, she advises, in this we also ask that the health professionals in university professional training, and also continued, continue to study these differences in symptomatology, and also that the population may be more and better formed to detect these signs of alertness. In the third place, I told them that in general we differ, and again, according to scientific evidence, women take more account of the psychosocial factors at the time of detecting or suffering from disease. In the middle of the day, we triage the most to go to the hospital; before we accompany our children, our parents, our friends, our friends, that we go for ourselves. And that's why, as the vascular surgeon José Luis Pomar of the Hospital Clínic also says, women are the most suffering and we endure the most pain. This is why we continue to explain to professionals and professionals that not only physical factors are taken into account, but also psychological factors, in diagnostics, in treatment, but also in the follow-up of pathologies. Fourthly, I told them that we live differently, and, according to the evidence – and we can see it at the time sequence of the health survey, at the Esca –, life expectancy and quality of life in years is different. The women live the most, but we live with the lowest quality of life. Therefore, we also care that we can put life in years and with quality of life, not only with quantity. And I also teach them with indicators of last salvation: women smoke less, we drink less, we eat better, and so we have worse salvation. Therefore, with this promotion of salvation that the department works, it is not only possible to explain to the women that have this style of healthy life, men and women, but especially the women, in physical activity, in sleep, in this prevention, in these revisions of mammograms, of cytology – also, MP Escarp, at Baix Llobregat, obviously, we also care about the women of Baix Llobregat –, and this style of life..., because, at the same exposition, the most risky pathetic women; therefore, we care for them also more. He also said that we treat each other differently, and he showed himself with some drugs and some treatments in which men and women react differently to the same treatment. That is why we ask, as other countries do and as European legislation also regulates, that women, but also the great people, also the chronics, also the pluripathological ones, are not underrepresented, as they are today, in clinical trials with drugs. And finally I said, Counselor, we die differently, and I don't say it again, I said the evidence. In the case, for example, that I was dealing with the infarct, the women die or we have a chance of dying by a 50_per_cent before an infarct, while the men, a 30_per_cent. Therefore, because of biological causes, because our veins, our arteries, are smaller; because of psychological causes, because we are more suffering or because we triage more to go to emergencies, or because the system does not yet have enough indicators, enough diagnostics or research to serve women as well, to improve global indicators and quality of life and health, we also ask you to take these criteria into account. Therefore, counsel, let's congratulate her on the actions that have already begun. We know that you and a good part of your team are concerned about them and occupy their equality, they are concerned about fairness, and we would like to encourage them to follow this path and ask them to explain to us at the chamber and at the conjunction of the citizenry who will be these proposals, these actions that they will undertake to continue to embed the perspective of gender also in the policies of salvation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.53.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the return, for the reply, of the Constellera Vergés. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.54.0	Yes, Mrs Espigares... I waited for you to come in, because you really did follow a very good exposition of the need that I found, which I wanted to explain, that also asked Mrs Marta Ribas with this equity also not only territorial and social, but also genera, that I could introduce this perspective of genera into the policies of salvation, to all policies. And here I look, and I will also address, the government's companies and companies, but also the policies of salvation, for which I am responsible. Because you're right in many of the data you said, and you've exposed them very well. Hello and genre go hand in hand. Differences of salvation between women and men transcend and far those biological differences that we may have..., but there are also many socially constructed factors that also affect these differences of salvation between men and women. That this incorporation of the gender perspective into health practice will certainly improve the health outcomes of the population already have some evidence; but, above all, what we have is a long way to go to continue improving these outcomes in health if we incorporate this gender perspective. And that this perspective must be absolutely indestriable of the definition, of the deployment and of the evaluation, also, as you have spoken, of all these policies. This is a priority for this department in this legislature, obviously. Equity in saving women and men means eliminating these inequalities, it means eliminating the factors that produce them, these inequalities. Therefore, it will not all be related to the Health Department, but I will be in charge, as I hope all of you will be, of getting to know the entire population, giving the maximum amount of information, as you also ask, because all this is going to change and because equity in salvation for women and men is going to be introduced. Because there is an intersectionality, too, in the home-woman factor: women are also diverse, there is also diversity of women, social conditions also have to see, and the economic level and family structure; and, therefore, all living and living conditions. And when we analyze the data per genere, just what we're doing is finding out. And these data analyses that we need to carry out are different policies, which take into account this transversality of gender, with the formation of professionals. And you have also said it very clearly and it is very important: professional training and information also to the people and to the citizenry in general. What have we done? You have already said, with the Guide for the introduction of the gender perspective that was published this March, with a first act..., to note, as the Health Counselor, to note, in a unit of attention integrated to sexual assaults that we have a very important sacre to our society, with these sexual assaults, where most victims are women, but all aggressors, 100_per_cent, are men. And that until the women, the nurses of that unit of emergencies did not say that we are not following these women well, they did not begin to lay the foundations because there is a unit that you look at and have this look at the victims. Because the embarrassment protocol that I was also able to present – and say badly – had to be introduced, in this update that we have presented, a screening of male violence since the first quarter. And I say badly to see, too, this chakra that we have in our society. Because we always try to have the Esca present segmented data by sex and gender, because women have behaviors, as you said, healthier, but worse state of health. And this was the summary and the headline of the last presentation of the Catalonia Health Survey that we had: the women suffer most depression, major or hard. And, above all, also, and I told the Health Commission, three of every four people who see suns, older than seventy-five years, are women. And this also implies in the state of salvation, in migraines, in the disease of the cervical skull, in fibromyalgia, as you also said, in depression or anxiety, in sleeping medications received by the doctor, with a difference also hallucinating between men and women. And I can also see what you said: women live longer, but they live worse. The life expectancy of women is 86.3 years and of men of 81 years, but the life expectancy with good health of women is 68.5 years and of men of 68.7 years. And this is a difference that we have to take into account in priority, in the plans that we adopt and in the focus and perspective that we always have in these policies of salvation. Why if we push ourselves, why do we have to push them with a gender perspective, as I said at the National Arthrosis Care Board? So because the population of sixty-five years or more affected by arthritis, a 28.5_per_cent are men, a 56.8 women. The difference is very great. And because the health report tells us that 40 percent of the adult population suffers from a chronic or long-term health problem or illness is 42 percent in women and 36 percent in men. This is a lot of data that reflects this need for us, such as chronics, and it also reflects us, in men and women, the different order of prevalence of these chronic diseases: while men are high blood pressure, high cholesterol and chronic skeletal disease, and arthritis is at point seven, the first is chronic skeletal, lumbar or dorsal disease, the second is high blood pressure and the third is arthritis, arthritis or rheumatism. Therefore, this difference between the order in which the main chronic disorders are experienced in men and women is also different, and here we must insist on seeing what is the priority that the system has always done, in these chronic disorders. So it hasn't always been appropriate for this difference between men and women. Because – you also pointed this out in the investigation – investigating neurodegenerative diseases is investigating with a gender perspective. And why am I saying that, with such a strong phrase? Because among the main causes of death between women and men, while in men the main cause is malignant lung tumor and then color ischemia, bronchitis, rest of things of the color, cerebrovascular and, in this case, there are dementias, in women the dementias are in the number or Alzheimer's position in the number two. Therefore, this, this sentence that I have said, "to investigate neurodegenerative diseases is to investigate with a gender perspective, to respond to some data and to respond to an order and to some main causes of mortality, here yes, different between women and men. Incorporating this generational perspective into what improves the salvation of the people? Why? Because concrete policies, because it favors the analysis of the situation per genere, that allows you to know the social inequalities of genere generated by the system; that the system continues to feel a patriarchal system in this way of thinking and in this way of defining policies. Because it improves the identification of problems; because it sets priorities in a different way; because it sets different objectives, according to whether you analyze data with this generation perspective or not. Because it determines these activities and interventions that will need to be prioritized in the future. And why do you foresee, too, the resources, how they are intended, where they are set, how they are prioritized, in what way and how they are set in advance of these interventions and what assessment is done. Increases efficiency, because it reverses inefficiency, re-establishes it in policies because they are not suited to this perspective. Reduce inequalities in health and make policies more equitable. What are we gonna do? Six lines that are introduced here to the Guide for the introduction of the gender perspective. And above all, I say to you, too, that we create a focus group of gender equality in health, with a technical profile and with people who are experts in the field, that in a second phase you will incorporate parties and entities, too, and that you will lay the foundations of gender equality days in health to establish clear commitments and concrete actions with a gender perspective in health, also in what you refer to for what you do to the investigation. In the PERIS, we incorporate the criteria that researches have a gender perspective. What? Very easy – very easy. Studies without women, there is no subsidy. Studies without women, there are no resources, because we have to ensure that research projects...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.55.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.56.0	...and to the clinical trials – I end up president – there are more participating women and the differential impact between women and men is assessed. Thank you very much for your intervention, Mrs Espigares, Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.57.0	Now, again, for the reply, it's the return of Congresswoman Espigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.58.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.59.0	I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.60.0	Thank you, Counselor, for improving the salvation of the women, who, as you have said, is also improving the salvation of all people, because we will help globally; for this training to the professional, that we are already very and very well formed– and thus show the countries that do not stop requiring nurses, teachers, because they go out to work–, but also that they introduce this perspective of genera, and with the will to work with this focus of work that he gave, also, here the deputies and sure that many of the deputies of this chamber are at his disposal. And I will end with a few words that are not mine, because today, you are well back in Catalonia, even though you are still not at home, because we want them free, as President Forcadell said: "The republic will either be feminist or it will not be. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.61.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Will you advise?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.62.0	So fast, too, President. On this line we'll work. And I also want to insist: Carme Forcadell was a person, like the President of Parliament, who had no empty speeches, but made changes and proposed them. This is the intention that I also have to continue his arrival in the Health Department, to introduce this gender perspective, which I believe everyone will have found in this chamber, men and women, that it is necessary to be able to introduce and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.63.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on first-child care services]] [[300-00013/12]] Let's move on to the following inquiry, which is about the services for the first child, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Explains the inquiry to Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.64.0	Thank you, President, and good morning to all of you. Before I started the interview, I'd really like to make two points. The first is to welcome the sixty people who arrive today at the port of Barcelona, in the open weapons vessel, fleeing from war and misery. We can only tell them that our home is your home. And the second thing I wanted to do was to move prisoners and political pressure to Catalonia. We think these people should be on the street, they should be free. We also want to insist that it is a right and not a privilege; but in any case, we do want to send them a strong hug, and we rejoice that they may be more close to their relatives and loved ones. [[Greetings.]] And now yes, counselor, very good morning; congratulate him on the cargo. Since we don't know each other very well, and he hasn't yet followed his appearance at the committee, I tell him that my intention is to make opposition, a firm opposition, but not obstruction. And that's why we want to tell you that you can count on our collaboration whenever we talk about improving our country's public education system thinking about who needs it most. And for this reason today there is a young man present, present an inquiry on public policies of support to the first childhood that is centered, mainly, on schools in Bressol, on family spaces and on actions of support and parental empowerment. As a child, too, we know that the Department of Social Affairs is working on the subject and, therefore, we would expect to see what the proposal is. What we now have, for which it does in schools and in family spaces, is a disaggregated, fragmented system with various models, disequilibrated territorially, with a quality that is very unequal, that is not always covering the real needs that exist in the country. And what seems harder to me is that there is no pedagogical leadership, there is no global picture, and therefore, there is no country plan. It's true that things have been done, but they have been done all the way; they are very interesting, but they seem insufficient to us. And that's why we're asking for a child development plan that's centered on the first childhood where all the actors, the Department of Education, are involved, but also the Department of Health, also the Department of Social Affairs, obviously the municipalities, the educational community, that has a leadership of the Generality without breaking into municipal and center autonomy, and always with the vision and with the intention of having a common objective. I'm also saying, we don't get this plan out of handcuffs, but we're being offered experts. Without going any further, the Bofill Foundation just now... I see that you have the report; it has presented this report the Jaume Blasco, which is precisely this coordination and coherence in first childhood policies. We know that there has also been a plan for the childhood and adolescence of the Afers Socials, but that it is not a plan, it is a pact; moreover, it is 2013; the data on the web are updated since..., the last one is 2015. In five years, I'd say it was nothing. Or, if you want, I say it in a more politically correct way: the objectives have not been sunk, if you want us to say so. And, besides, it is that the experts and experts ask for a specific plan for the first childhood, because adolescence and childhood is vast mass and does not allow to concentrate efforts and energies. When we speak of first childhood we often tend to reduce everything to the bressol schools – and it is certain that they have a central importance in the educational success of the later stages and in fairness – but for us there are many more variables at stake. Public policies in favour of zero at three years are directly related to the country model, to the economy; there is a whole pocket of unpaid cures that in 99_percent of cases collects on women and that is more invisible in the work. We women have no reason to choose between being seas or our professional career; I would say more: a country cannot dispense with the talent of its women, with the right to form a family, follow the family model, obviously. Being a father or a mother shouldn't be a hero. And with the values, because it fully enters equal opportunities and social justice. And those who most need these public policies are those families that have fewer economic, social or cultural resources. And let's just say we don't think about leaving these families behind. Therefore, we are talking about a country model and we are talking about the future for the country. And that's why we need a cross-cutting strategy, which is this plan for child development centered on the first childhood, which is not only zero to three years, but should also start thinking about zero to six, which is the universal stage. For what makes the schools bressol, we would certainly like to make five points. The first, as it couldn't be any other way, is the issue of financing, isn't it? It has become a mantra the theme of financing the bressol schools. I will not do the full chronology of how we have come to this unfortunate situation of infra-financing that our schools have, but we do want to say three very concrete things in respect. The first: the debt has to be paid; we will not defend the forgiveness of this debt. The joints are economically offended. Only the Barcelona Assembly..., the Generalitat has a debt with the Barcelona Assembly of 40_million euros, which could be destined to make many other social policies. The second thing we want to say to you about financing: you have to put money from now on, as the law makes and as you have already announced in the previous Ple. That's right, they don't know how much money or how it'll do it. We hope that these meetings that you have with the Catalan Association of Municipalities and with the federation will go very well. And, thirdly, we believe that this money should be put incentivising social pricing and not by the income of the municipalities, but by the gross disposable income of the families. Our model, and that everyone knows, is free schooling, free education from scratch and beyond. But we understand that the financial situation is delicate and, therefore, we accept social pricing as a way of gradually increasing to total gratuity. The second thing we want to say to him is that planning, which is not only necessary in the schools of Bressol, but in all stages of education, is that in schools of Bressol there is no such thing. And here we want to talk about where and why we open nine seats. For us, territorial balance is a priority, not just thinking about demand, which is important, but also thinking about the urban index, the family income available and the educational level. The Sindic de Greuges has already read more of a report that would stimulate the demand for the most disadvantaged families. Therefore, there are places where we will have to stimulate this demand. And that's what you do with public offer, social pricing, and broadcasting campaigns. The third thing: relational and pedagogical leadership. It insists, without breaking into municipal and centre autonomy, the department must indeed mark or at least work to mark this horizon and this visit. And this has to be done primarily with two things: to improve, to deepen the formation of the masters, both theoretical and practical, to give pedagogical coherence to the whole stage, and to train people in the territorial services of the department, so that there are specialists who can weave the network. Fourth: co-education as essential to all educational stages and also in the bressol. Since the Barcelona Assembly, there have been many children working on co-education, with an association that does very well – but there are others – such as CoeducAcció. To accompany the bressol school teams in the process of discovering gender stereotypes and discriminations; to ensure that bressol schools are free of sexism, and to give other non-stereotyped references to children and children. And the quinta: the beggars. We have often said that eating time must be part of the education project; moreover, the contracting of these services must be accompanied by criteria of proximity and ecological certification. In the previous legislature, in the plenary of social emergence and economic recovery we approved a body of aid for scholarships to schools in the Bressol that has not been completed. And, therefore, we insist that they deal with Parliament's resolutions; as simple as that. That's what he does to bressol schools, that we already say they have a 35_per_cent, roughly, of schooling. It's not a tax that's bad; we're five-year-olds in the state, and if we compare it to the rest of Europe, well, it's a percentage that's good enough, but we can't take this part of the picture, because the other European countries, the Bressol schools were accompanied by many other family support measures. Therefore, that lower coverage of schools in other countries is associated with powerful and dignified parental and maternity permits, not like what's going on here. We hope that with the proposal that is working, that has presented United We can, we get equal and non-transferable permissions for mothers and fathers, and also other services of attention regulated to the children's home, to the family space, and attention even in domestic services, like that passed to the rest of Europe. For what he does in family space, in Catalonia we have eighty; it's forty less than two years ago; a percentage that is very low and that has been made worse by the economic crisis that we have suffered. The same report by the Bofill Foundation insists on its need, because it is directly related to the resilience of children, to criminal behaviour, to the participation of children when they are still large in the labour market, because of their educational success; they are the best tool to directly affect families who have harder problems of resources. And that's where we ask you for three very clear things. The first, a marc program, a self-regulation, because they have neither a presuppositional presuppositional presupposition nor a regulation; therefore, a _marc setting conditions, criteria, objectives and a format for all professionals. The second, collaboration in planning; it cannot be that only forty municipalities in Catalonia have family spaces. And the third would be the co-responsibility in its financing. And we're talking about money again, but we're talking about a country model, and if it's a priority not to leave the children and children of the most vulnerable abandoned families, we need to invest and prioritize who are those measures that we think are essential. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.65.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Counselor of Teaching responds, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.66.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mrs Albiach, I think we will agree on many things that you have said, starting with the first, that I will mention very little. We need an opposition that is made from a constructive perspective. Every government needs opposition, obviously, and every government needs an opposition that it wants to build. Because surely we will be wrong and surely you will indicate to us who our mistakes are and, therefore, will help us to do better. The phase from zero to three years is obviously a very important stage. If we believe that education is certainly a lifelong learning process, the learning process begins precisely when the person starts. Obviously we're talking here about elements that are very different in the rest of the stages, huh? Firstly, because they are elements in which we have to talk about education, but surely we do not have to talk about schooling; that when we have to talk about educational projects, here we have to talk more about aspects of hours, about aspects of mensadores, than about aspects, for example, curricula, what would be a mistake; or when we have to talk about the professionalization of people who attend these ages, we are talking about a professionalization that is certainly much more different than the rest of the educational stage, and we also have to talk about a very different offer, because reality is very different. In this sense, it is obvious, for example, that we have to talk, as you have done, about the schools in Bressol, the schools of children, obviously, but we have neither to forget nor to let go of the family spaces, which coincide with you that they are some figures that, compared to what is European, they are very low. But we also need to talk about the seas of the day; we also need to talk about children's homes; we also need to talk about shared children's spaces, and we also need to talk about other elements that are..., our streets, playgrounds, etc. Therefore, first I announce that we are working very resolutely in a reform proposal – in some substantial elements and in others not so much – of Decree 282/2006, in which we want to place ourselves in an element that you know is a lot of debate, and that it is an element in which we will share our concern with you, with other parliamentary groups and with the rest of the educational community, which is: to what extent do we have to regulate? – to what point do we have to regulate? I mean, how far do we have to get into child-sharing spaces with regulation? How far do we have to allow this diversity to continue to exist? And I think we might agree on a starting point. I mean, we don't have to regulate everything – we don't have to regulate everything –; everything that refers to families and zero-three we don't have to regulate everything, but there are some elements that are now deregulated in what we have to set ourselves to score a few tiny steps, huh? And, therefore, we need to know how to find the balance of both. And, therefore, I answer, first, let's say, petition at the first point of the future motion, eh? , as you say: the program marc, therefore, which is which, in one way or another, asks us also the Bofill Foundation in its report. I don't know now if programming is the definition. That is to say, a joint planning between the various government departments that have to do with the treatment of zero-three childhood, and, as you pointed out, surely, with the will that is zero-yes. We have to. And we also have to do it with the community. And we also have to do it with the gatherings. So, if there's a big show, whatever it is, let's take what the Bofill Foundation tells us. There's a lot of servants; they're more servants; because everything is structured, everything is planned; so that all agents know who the rules of the game are, and that someone leads it. The Bofill Foundation says I lead the Department of Education. You'll allow me to debate it in government and decide it in government, which leads it, because, let's just say, even though the government is supportive, it's very easy to say that the Education Department leads it, so, from the start, it's like I'm the counselor, right? So, okay, we'll talk about where I've got leaders. Finance, very quickly. I insist on another round: we want to rejoin the co-responsibility of financing zero-three public places. We will do this on the basis of a proposal that we will submit to the Joint Department of Education, Association of Municipalities and Federation of Municipalities, which we have already made a proposal for a meeting and which will be done before the end of July. In this funding we want, if not, still to continue to participate in the congresses, because they keep us quiet. In this funding..., and we agree with you and other agents that we need to talk about social pricing, we also need to talk about the complexity of the territory or the complexity of the children's home, and therefore there must be a fixed financing and a variable financing of these public places; that is, a fixed financing agreement and a variable financing agreement. We agree. He says he disagrees with the forgiveness of the debt. We'll talk about it, huh? That is to say, if the Department of Education is forced to finance all the public places that it has stopped financing in these years at all, of those gatherings that have complained before the courts and those that have not, I assure you that we would not be talking about our proposal to corresponsabilize ourselves from the future, huh? And, so, we don't have to talk, do we? We don't have to talk. It's obvious that we have to assume what we want, it's obvious that we have to assume the past and it's obvious that all of the past we can't assume. Presumably, I mean, huh? So we don't have to talk. Planning. We agree we have to plan. Miri, zero-three education, the formation of zero-three infants has four elements, four elements that are key. First, the development of the capacity of infants. It is true that if we intervene educationally in the zero-three stage, we intervene in a better development of the capacities of the children. The zero-three stage is not a pre-primary, it does not serve to form for the primary, but it does serve to help develop the ability of infants. Second, zero-three education serves to help detect and modify social risk situations or inequality of our infants; it also serves for this. It also serves to initiate a link of socialization between the education system, society and families. And it also serves, as you pointed out, for the territorial balance, from a very different concept of what territorial balance is. We will find a pilot test, in which there have already participated eighty municipalities, which is precisely a zero-sis game: it is to place in the schools of children and primary school of the rural world the zero-three, so that in the school of children and primary school of the rural world begins for the zero-three; with a municipal participation, but with an assumption of expenses, let us say, central part of the department. What does that mean? It means that there are municipalities in Catalonia that could not have children who have children, but it means that in these municipalities infants who need children do not go to another, and therefore they keep enrolling in the primary school in their own municipality. And, therefore, let's say, we settle the families in their own municipalities. This has one aspect of territorial balance, but, as you said, there is another aspect, which is that in Catalonia we have more offer of zero-three places than we demand, in general, global numbers. But I would cheat if you stayed here, because it's obvious that in certain barrels, in certain municipalities, in places where there's more time, in places where there's more socio-economic problems, there's a lack of places. Therefore, we must not remain in saying that we have more than those who ask us, which is true, but in saying that we must plan where we need to be. And, therefore, I also agree with you on the point that I was talking about collaboration and planning, and with all the things that I've said to you we've always been talking about correspondence with the municipality. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.67.0	Thank you, Counselor. Again, it's the congresswoman's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.68.0	Well, thank you, Counselor. Looks like we can come to terms. I've heard a lot of good words; this must then be translated into fact. We share the diagnosis, but we will see if we share the proposal. You said: "We will have to talk to the government whether you take the Teaching leadership or not. The Bofill Foundation says you should take over Teaching. And we think so, too. And for a very simple reason: why should we promote the connection between schools in Bressol, family spaces, but also with children's and primary education centres, and promote coherence and educational coordination. Therefore, it has every sense of the world to do so Teaching and is not seen from an old social only, because it also has a strong educational component. He also spoke: why can't we forgive the debt? So there's a lot of formulas. Neither are we proposing that the debt is paid all and now; it can be done differently. Because, of course, he says: "If we now pay all the debt, we will not be able to account for it in a future. Clearly, and if you've been a few years doing things wrong, and this task has been taken over by the joints, what about all the social measures that could have been taken by the joints and that, due to the generality's irresponsibility, could not be taken by the joints? Clearly, I mean, at the end of the day, this is a waste of cascade functions, and they end up taking on the responsibility that the Generality would have for gatherings to the detriment of policies for which they do have competence. Very quickly. The other day, a scientific article from various U.S. universities showed that children raised in poor environments – and remember that Catalonia has one of four children in a vulnerable situation – have developmental problems with their brains. This is due to extreme situations, lack of stimulation, because food is not adequate, because families cannot provide the best food, and it has become clear that this will be a long time for these children throughout their life. In fact, it has been shown that these developmental problems in the brain are directly related to 20_percent of low school income cases. And low school income already knows how it ends; ends up in a school failure, ends up in a school drop-out and ends up in a lot of trouble for adulthood. What do I mean by that? That we can't talk about..., you know, the other day, on the 40th anniversary of the Federation of Workers' Commissions, he was talking about his commitment to fighting school segregation, and we share it there, but it's that we can't talk about fighting segregation, innovation, evaluation by skills, and so many things that we're talking about so much now and how fashionable they are, if we start the house by roofing and we don't start the house by phoning. And fonaments are a first-infant policy structure that has universal access, reaching families in a more vulnerable situation. Because, I insist, the syndic of Greuges... It is certain that there are more places of school in Bressol than surely there is in demand, but it is essential to generate this demand, because families that have fewer resources or are planted go to schools in Bressol. And because there are many families that don't just need to go to school in Bressol, it's that they certainly also need to accompany family spaces and need parental support actions. We are living what some experts and experts – and the Jaume Carbonell said – call the ‘third pedagogical revolution. I don't think we can talk about a real pedagogical revolution if we have the children of one, two or three years old, if we have one of every four children of Catalonia whom we are condemning not to have the same opportunities as their companies and companies. Because it's not just unfair and cruel, it's just that we can't afford it with the country. So what I'm asking you is that these good words that you've made use of in this inquiry end up concrete in a plan, in a plan that really has resources, in a responsible plan, in a plan that remains sustainable, in a plan that doesn't just depend on who is in government, because I think that there are policies that go far beyond the interests of the parties, I think that there are projects that go far beyond who holds the medal; there are projects that are vital for the future of the country, and the future of the country are our infants. Therefore, he asks you that these good words that you have used make them concrete. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's the councilman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.70.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Albiach, obviously, huh? the theoretical speech, the report, if it doesn't support actions and actions don't have a presuppositional call, so let's stay on the side, let's just say, of parliamentary cordiality and don't move on from here. That's all right, huh? , which is already good, because, let's say, parliamentary cordiality is always a step forward respecting unnecessary aggression. But since you and I won't attack each other, I recognize it. First, we gotta get universal access, huh? We have to work for universal access. And we have to work for a universal access in which, I insist, we have to obtain the necessary and adequate offer in those parts of our territory in which, for reasons of maturity, for questions of socioeconomic realities, we do not have enough places and, as you have said, the offer we make is not attractive enough for those families who could ask for a place if they were on conditions to do so. So, I insist on taking this step for social pricing, huh? , to take this step for social charging, to take this step to achieve the gratuitousness of those cases that some of the social services point to us. That's also why the step into family space and other formulas that are not necessarily child's home. And obviously we have to do this through planning. We are working on the decree, on the reformulation of Decree 282/2006, because it is a first tool, because it is a first tool to make some things clear, such as, for example, to regulate family spaces, in a way that is not done now. But it's obvious that we have to work on this plan you're asking for. And I would also agree, my proposal would also be that I was led by Teaching, say it, back to say it there. For what I do to the debt, I just say that if we quantify all the debt, everything, of those joints that have asked of us and of those that have not, because we have to be fair and also quantify the debt of who has given it to us and who has not. Because neither one of you nor us, which some have asked for because of the political colour and some have not asked for it because of the political colour, do not know why some of us have asked for it because of the political colour, but we, at the time of government policy, do not have to distinguish it. Therefore, we have to work – what you want to say. And what proposals do we have on the table so that we can find out who will be in favour of it. And finally some reflection around what you also said. The studies of neuroscience, which are very advanced, and of the neuroscience involved in education, which are very advanced, and which are more helpful to us, and which are, let us say, beyond the more advanced educational innovation, clearly tell us that, in the intellectual formation of our student, of the person, of the citizen, of the citizen, zero-three is the key. And that's key in different aspects: it's key through socialization; it's key through contact, and that's why co-education in zero-three is, for example, a tool of policy of genera and eradication of future rapes, for example, one of the many tools. And nutrition is also very important at this time. Therefore, eating policies at these stages are also very important. And sometimes we eat that we don't have to think of them only in children's homes but, for example, in family spaces in which sometimes it's only two hours, one hour, three hours, but in some family spaces the eating space is very important. The other day a psychopedagogue, which we were talking about these issues..., said: "It is sometimes only possible to have the place to bring them to eat and the rest to keep them in family circles, collectivities... Well; we don't have to talk, I insist. We have to plan, we have to be open, we have to hear the situations of families, of territories, the needs of our children, children, that zero-three... We have finished saying zero-three because we decided one good day that three-six was the pre, eh? But if not, it would be zero-sis. We must therefore hear this stage with a complex stage; we must not hear the children's lars as a repository of children but as a place of work, too. And, therefore, we'll get to work on it. First, with the Department of Labour and Social Action, some first steps to offer the educational community, the municipal world and parliamentary groups an initiative of this planning already established that you ask us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.71.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] Before we finished, as you must have noticed, we skipped a point of the order of the day, the first point concretely, which was the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules, in particular Article 49.2, the composition of the months of the commissions must be communicated to the Plenary. As the current composition of the months of the Commission of the Syndicate of Greuges and of the Commission of the Union of Auditors is included in the file of the Plenum which has been distributed to all Members, I therefore call on them to be exonerated from their reading. And if there's no inconvenience, can we give it to the Ple for information? Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So let's suspend the Ple until three o'clock in the afternoon. [[The session is resumed at three o'clock in the afternoon and three minutes. He chairs the President of Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the late Mercè Arderiu and Usart and the late Antoni Bayona Rocamora.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.72.0	Good afternoon, we're following the order of the day... please, deputies, deputies, we're following the order of the day. The gift is the debate and vote of the Motion for a resolution of the creation of a commission of inquiry on the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia. This proposal was submitted for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republic Parliamentary Group... [[Voice remorse and pause.]] You're right, you're right, I'm sorry, I've made a point. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a policy monitoring committee for persons with disabilities]] [[252-0008/12]] The first point of this delay, as I am told, is the motion for a resolution on the creation of a commission to follow up the policies of people with disabilities. This proposal is presented for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, therefore, to present this initiative has the first word for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Naomi of the Street. And excuse the mischief.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.73.0	Good afternoon to everyone. First of all, I would like to thank the presence of the entities that accompany us today: Dincat ; Acapps, Catalan Association for the Promotion of the Deaf Persons ; Fesoca, Federation of Deaf Persons of Catalonia ; Down Catalunya, Cocarmi, and the Sumem Association. I thank, also, for your assistance, Álex Hernández, sign interpreter. But what I want to thank you for, above all, is the work you have done, trying to make this proposal thrive, trying to convince some parliamentary groups of the need for a specific committee on disability policies, as already exists in the Congress of Deputies. And that's why we're here. In Catalonia there are more than half a million people with disabilities, and the fact that they belong to this group implies, on the one hand, inequality. For example, the lack of employment, educational opportunities, and political participation. In the course of 2016, the rate of students with disabilities in Catalan universities was 1.21_per_cent. In addition, in the absence of educational and employment opportunities, Cocarmi has added more than EUR 23,000 per year to the economic effort that people with disabilities have to make, on average, in order to develop their life plan. On the other hand, they also suffer violations of their dignity. For example, when they suffer violence, abuse and prejudice. 31_percent of women with disabilities have been subjected to sexist violence and children with disabilities are victims of violence with a frequency of almost four points, higher than those without disabilities. In the period from 2006 to 2016, which is the last of the data, the family courts of Catalonia have solved 167 sterilization procedures for people with modified ability to work. And yes, we are talking about forced sterilizations, in Catalonia, in the middle of the 21st century. And they also suffer from little autonomy, for example, when there is no infrastructure to make use of transport or public buildings. In addition, 75_per_cent of housing buildings are not accessible and this ends up turning the home itself into a prison, with serious consequences for the development of their lives. This lack of rights and opportunities, which is not exclusive to Catalonia, must also be said, motivated the United Nations to convene in 2006 an international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which was ratified by Spain in 2007. However, in Catalonia, laws have not yet been adapted to the mandates and values of the convention. The first question I made at this parliamentary seat was precisely for that reason, when 10 years of that convention were being fulfilled and the deadline for adapting to it was about to end. All the parties in the parliamentary arch voted in favour of the Government adapting our rules, our autonomous laws. And here we continue, two years later, without adapting the values and mandates of the convention, including non-discrimination, equal opportunities, accessibility, rapprochement with new technologies or the right to information. The joint work and pressure of the collective entities has made it possible to advance the recognition of rights and benefits. Despite this, in recent years, disability policies have been the great ones forgotten by the last governments of the Generalitat. In Catalonia, there is a total lack of promotion and promotion of the occupation of persons with disabilities, both in the ordinary enterprise and in the special employment centres. Not only is there not a commitment on the part of the labour inspector to comply with the lismi in the ordinary company, but, in the case of special employment centres, year after year, they have been delayed by payments from the Government. In 2016, for example, the January share had not yet been charged in September. And in 2017, in the middle of July, the whole sector was on the warpath, because they didn't charge either. One of the last things the councillor did, before the end of the last legislature, was to sign an order cutting aid by 50_per_cent, something that the entities have taken to the courts for failing to comply with state grant rules. The entities protested in September to the council for these cuts, and what they received from it was the mockery in the form of tweets saying that they had attended this protest four cats, who have fabric dealing with people with mobility problems and reflected, therefore, the lack of sensitivity and empathy of those who ruled and today continue to rule. Then came 155 and served them to blame him, for that, for the total inefficiency and inactivity of the government, but serve this intervention to remember that, already in July 2017, the entities demanded the payment of the subsidies and denounced the cuts. And that, myself, I made an inquiry to the councilwoman to ask her about those cuts and the social unprotection to which the Government subjected us. Not to mention historical underfunding in disability policies, which barely exceeds 1_per_cent of the Generalitat budget. Another outstanding debt, the law of personal autonomy and independent life that, since the time of Councillor Cleries, therefore, they have been announcing to us by drum and platter, passing through Constellera Munté, Constellera Bassa and we will see if Councillor El Homrani also tries to sell the motorcycle next week. We continue..., the Catalan Accessibility Act, whose regulation should have been drafted years ago, and neither the regulation has been made, nor has it been budgeted. Look, in recent years, the number of people with disabilities in Catalonia has increased by more than 166_per_cent and from our parliamentary group, over the past parliamentary term, we have been trying to alleviate the Government's lack of interest in disability policies, as, among other things, we are calling for a plan for inclusion in the rural world, to guarantee the reproductive rights of women with disabilities, to make specific studies on poverty in women with disabilities, as on average they charge 8,500_euros a year less than men. We call for the promotion of the entrepreneurship of persons with disabilities, the deployment of the Accessibility Act, the increase of the budget for employment, and, for example, also, since the Generalitat did not pay social entities, we call for the Catalan Finance Institute to enable access to credit lines and, when they made the payment effective, to do so by paying the entities the interest of delay. This is just a sample of all the initiatives that my parliamentary group has put forward and that have been adopted, proposals that have been left on wet paper, because the Government has done nothing about it. And that is why we are not surprised that the parliamentary groups that support the Government, Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, while they promise a working group to the entities, therefore, that the entities do not want and that it would not serve anything, have announced that they will vote against the creation of this commission. A follow-up committee which, as its name indicates, would serve to monitor public disability policies, which would serve to carry out not only proposals but also control of the Government. And look, we're not going to stop opposing, because you want to, we didn't do it when we were three Members, we're not going to do it now with thirty-six. During these months, the entities have received multiple excuses not to support this commission. The most used is that there are already many commissions and that we are overworked, but that is not true. In the past legislature we have thirty-two commissions. In this we have twenty-five, seven commissions less, and what is really worrying is the image that is offered to the citizenry, of not wanting more work, and that is the worst image that can be given, when there is such a great disaffection of the citizenry towards politics, precisely because of these attitudes of the old parties. They have also been told that there was an agreement not to create any more commissions, when what was agreed was to rationalize the creation of these commissions. And we've already seen the criteria of each party. Some only save on social policies, while we have called for the creation of a committee on disability or on older persons or on self-employed persons, others call for the opening of a commission of 155, or of the Castor Project, for which we have no competence. [[Some applause.]] And what is already difficult is that the President of Parliament himself requests a commission to talk about the four fugitives, while his parliamentary group denies a commission to more than half a million Catalan citizens with disabilities. Those are his priorities, the usual monotheme. They just want to use Parliament as the resonance box of the process, they want to paralyze it, as they already did, they want to load it so that we don't control them, they don't want to do normal work in the councils. Let us hope that the PSC will not yield to Pedro Sánchez's interests in his treachery with the secessionist parties, because people with disabilities cannot be a currency of exchange. This game that comes with the nationalist parties keeps us away from the social agenda. Indeed, I ask the Socialist Party to stop ‘pedrosanchear'. Really: "Is changing the name of the Social Affairs Commission going to solve something? Do not whiten the Government in exchange for the Government of Spain, at least not on social issues. Precisely in this plenary, you present a motion on the big country issues: Is disability a big country issue for you? What are, for you, the great themes of the country? Because, for others, equal opportunities for persons with disabilities, or older persons, are. Please do not be the Government's crutch, because the one who favors this commission not being created is the Government, how many fewer commissions, less control and less opposition. In conclusion, I would like to recall the words contained in a manifesto presented by Cocarmi in 2015 and which remain very much in force: "No political situation, no historical moment, no partisan confrontation can set aside one of the most vulnerable people in society, people with disabilities and their families. They are still in time to rethink their sense of vote and, when they press the voting button, don't think about who is presenting this proposal, do it by looking into the eyes and thinking about the people who need this Parliament to get involved in a real and effective way, to ensure the human rights and equal opportunities set out in the United Nations Convention. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.74.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the turn, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Forward Units, it is the turn of Deputy Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.75.0	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, councillor, councillor. I also welcome the various representative entities of the disability collection that accompany us today from the rostrum of this Parliament. Today we are debating the proposal of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group to set up a follow-up committee for policies of people with disabilities and certainly, the different representative entities of the sector that, during the past few years, have come to see us to demand more visibility and above all, more effective in their policies, in the policies of this Government's disability, therefore, in fact not lacking the reason. The last seven years of the Government of Catalonia have not been characterized by new and powerful policies towards the groups of people with disabilities, all the contrary. We have become accustomed to having legislation, Catalan, which is not adapted to the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations, which passed the year 2007 and, eleven years later, here we are. We have a Catalan sign language law with no rules and no assumptions associated with eight years ago, which causes, for example, deaf pupils of battling and formatting cycles to have only half of the classes interpreted. We have a law of accessibility without approved regulations and without associated assumptions four years ago. We have special work centres of economic interest, due to the delay, year after year, of the publication of payment orders that subsidize the minimum interprofessional wage of those who work there, with a government that, moreover, does not complete the motions approved for this same Parliament and that fix in a 50 and a 75_per_cent the subsidy of the minimum interprofessional wage, depending on the type of disability, a theme that has even reached the Superior Court of Justice of Catalonia. We have a policy of employment inclusion to the ordinary business that is almost non-existent; it makes the special work centers the only opportunity of eight_of_each_two people with disabilities in Catalonia. We live in a country, ladies and gentlemen, where the Administration triga a year in communicating officially the degree of disability of a minor. We have an inclusive school decree that does not apply and leaves no accompanying resources and educational support for hundreds of children who have special educational needs at our schools. We live in a country with a waiting list: waiting list by dependency – 85,000 people, Spain's tallest –, with a waiting list by rebre, like the goddess, a certificate of disability, with a waiting list of more than two years to access a residential place for people with a disability, whenever you see in a territory of Catalonia where you have this type of service. We live in a country where some people with disabilities can't jump to the rolling train, or because the trains aren't adapted or because the stations don't make it possible. These and other problems have been dealt with in this Parliament during previous legislatures and continue to hear the themes that we will certainly talk about during this legislature, because the lack of solutions only perpetuates the problems. So with this rule of subjection, someone might think that the creation of this policy-monitoring committee for people with disabilities is more than justified. But if we do a sincere exercise with the city council, and also with the entities of the disability sector, we might have to tell them that a follow-up committee does not guarantee that their issues are discussed more or that their problems are resolved more quickly. In our view, what the Ciutadans Group is proposing is almost double what we already have. The Legislative Commission for Work, Social Affairs and Families is the committee where disability issues are discussed, and there is no objective reason to justify the creation of a new committee, since we do not have the laws of this sector to approve, we do not have a large number of resolution proposals that justify the creation of a follow-up committee. Stop talking about disability in the Legislative Commission of Treball, Afers Socials and Families would help empty the content. We don't talk about childhood anymore, because there's a children's commission; we wouldn't talk about disability because there's a disability commission. We wouldn't be talking about big people either, because they want to create a big people commission. Therefore, we would only talk about social services, and talking about social services is talking very partially about social welfare. Following this logic of Citizens, I think of other monitoring committees that would be of the same importance and that would also contribute to emptying and dispersing the social issues of parliamentary control: a commission of dependency, of home care services, of special employment centers, of non-professional caregivers, of evictions, of model of social services... I would think of many commissions of great importance, too, for the lives of Catalans and Catalans. On the other hand, I have taken the liberty of seeing what was the work of the Committee on Social Affairs and Families of the past legislature, to see how many disability resolutions would justify a new committee in this area. Of the sixty-seven motions for resolutions discussed in that committee, only eight had to do with disability: three from the Socialist Party, three from Citizens and two from Catalonia Yes, it is Pot; that is, a 12-per-cent. Eight of sixty-seven. There is therefore no substantial justification for setting up a follow-up committee, after having tabled eight motions for resolutions in the legislative committee in two years. Nor for this legislature: four motions for resolutions on the field of disability have been tabled, three from the PSC and two from Citizens, one of which is the one we are discussing here today. And, in the face of this numerical evidence – and if not, you review the SIAP – the rest of the groups had to listen in the mouth, in this case, to the president of the Citizens' Group, Mrs Arrimadas, last Tuesday, in the Faristol, who considered it a shame and a pity that the parties decided to overthrow this commission because their deputies have a lot of work and do not have time to work for disability. Ojo, says the president of the group with more Members in this Parliament, who gives working lessons to others while registering a single motion for a resolution in the committee on disability. [[Greetings.]] Sure. And we also have to listen that we don't want it because we have a scam with the independence groups, because Pedro Sánchez has bills, let's say, to pay for support..., of course, bills that could translate is, for example, that the commitment to disability is also demonstrated in that the Secretary of State of Social Services is a person with disabilities. For example, that is also a very clear commitment on the part of the Sánchez Government. And this isn't about paying anyone bills. What is clear is that, given these declaratory background, it would not be surprising that at the end of this debate the Citizens' Group runs to make some tweet or press release saying that they alone care about disability, that the rest of us do not want to work because we do not support their proposal and that we do not want to improve the lives of this group. In addition to these demagogic lies and statements, I hope that they will also publish some truth, such as that Citizens and the People's Party vetoed the creation of a state fund for universal flexibility in the Congress of Deputies, or that both would also delay the processing of the ILP against the dependency co-op, asking for extensions and extensions, which even the Cermi asked them to stop asking for extensions in this regard. [[Greetings.]] Or you can also explain that despite the fact that we have suggested to your representatives at the meetings of spokespersons other alternatives to this committee, that we have tried to seek the consensus of the political forces of this Parliament in dealing with this issue, you have remained motionless, hopeful to hang the medal of the creation of the disability commission and to stand well before the sector. In fact, today's proposal is only endorsed by your parliamentary group. For all these reasons, our parliamentary group will abstain in the vote on this committee. And the sector is very plural. We have spoken with them during these days, we have met before, and from the Socialists i Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group we have already assumed for months the request for greater visibility of the group of people with disabilities in parliamentary committees. And in this line we proposed at the meeting of spokespersons the change of name of the current Commission of Work, Afers Socials and Families, adding « persons with disabilities. A simple change, which gave visibility to the collective, which was given to it in a legislative committee, which is what the sector is asking for, a legislative committee, which is what the sector was asking for and which seems to be that other forces did not see it willingly, surely because they had already prepared a proposal like the one we are debating today. But we're not going to keep talking about disability generating false expectations. What we want is to find solutions to some of the problems we have mentioned before. And that is why, together with other groups, we have tabled a joint motion for a resolution setting up a working group on disability, which will be adopted by the Commission of Treball, Afers Socials i Families, so that in the period of one year we will analyse and concretely determine which Catalan laws must be amended to adapt them to the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations. A specific, effective, time-limited issue that will require conclusions and that should allow for a number of legislative changes of vital importance to the group of persons with disabilities. In the meantime – and I finish – our parliamentary group will be particularly attentive and active in the face of the innumerable problems that affect people with disabilities in our country, not proposing commissions without content, but giving content to the committees and working groups that exist or that may exist, inviting the active participation of representative entities and defending with sincerity and responsibility the outstanding policies that Catalonia has with the group of people with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.76.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.77.0	Thank you, President. To greet the entities of the sector present today to the hemisphere, councillor, councillor, deputies, deputies... It has been said, but I think it is worth repeating: we are talking about more than a million people, more than 551,000 people in Catalonia, who are people with functional diversity, people with disabilities, more than 7_percent of the Catalan population. A population that has to make an economic overeffort, of about 23,000 euros of middle, according to the calculations made for Cocarmi, at the expense and data of the city of Barcelona, in order to be able to guarantee the vital basic elements. People who have an occupation rate in the ordinary ridiculous market, much more ridiculous every time we create more of the gender aspect, much more ridiculous still for women, because there is a constant incompliment of the laws that require there to be a percentage of the jobs reserved for this collection. It is a population that suffers from a risk rate of poor five points higher than people without disabilities, according to the Arope index. This is just to lay down some basic data that they portray so that we are talking about a collection that requires special political attention as well. It requires specific policies, specific perspective of disability in all policies and actions, and visibility. In change, this collection and the most representative entities of this sector have years reporting the lack of data to know the vital realities of the collection, the lack of adequate laws or the lack of deployment and presupposition of existing laws. Also of presuppositional endowment to keep those servants who should maintain themselves with quality or, obviously, to deploy them from us. From Catalonia to Comú We can believe that it is time to respond to all these demands, these complaints, these just demands, and that it is necessary to do so parliamentaryly, especially in two lines. On the one hand, studying and proposing all the necessary adaptations in Catalan legislation to adapt to complement the 2006 United Nations International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I think that's what we certainly agree with all the groups: we have it pending, and it's not just necessary, but we have to do it. But there is also another line in which we should be working parliamentaryly, which is in the review and control of everything that is done by the Government, applying this cross-cutting view of attention to disability: applying it to work, applying it to render, to poor, to inclusive schooling, to accessibility, to political and social participation, to policies that respect discrimination and rape, respect rights, respect the benefits and respect the territorial inequity of the services, which also affects especially those people who are already affected by another type of discrimination, such as in this case disability. Allow me to refer to five concrete themes that have been dealt with, yes, very, the last few years in the Parliament of Catalonia, which have been the subject of debate in these last few years in Parliament and which continue to be in the middle or absolutely pending. The law of accessibility of Catalonia, approved for this chamber four years ago and which has not yet been deployed on a regular basis. The Catalan Sign Language Law, also approved for this chamber, which is also pending deployment and presuppositional endowment, to ensure the oral communication of deaf and deaf people. Laws eternally announced for the government but never evolved beyond a powerpoint, essential laws for this collection, such as the law of personal autonomy. The revision of the service management contracting system, so that we can demerchantize what has already been commercialized in this sector and shield that part that has not yet been the object of commercialization and speculation of the market. Presuppositional measures to improve the working conditions of staff in residential services, day centres and care for persons with intellectual disabilities. I recall that 2011 has made the staff ratios of these services more flexible and has led to an overload of work– 2011–, and that this flexibility has not yet been reviewed. So, we carry six years of work overload on the staff of these services, which join nine years of wage freezes. All these issues have been dealt with in one way or another over the past few years in the Parliament of Catalonia and continue to be or continue to be deployed. There's a lot of work going on in this Parliament... in a specific committee, yes, why not? There's a lot of work to do to control what's done and what's not done with the Government of the Generalitat. And there was a lot of work done to push for change, we focused, new perspectives, we served. The debate today, however, is in which it is best to do this from the Parliament of Catalonia. What will be more useful in making this control and political impulse about disability from Parliament? What will be more useful to put the focus on this cross-sectionality, look, from disability to all policies? What would be the most useful tool for giving maximum visibility to these debates and proposals? What is more useful for extruding any concrete objects that can be transferred to actual change? So look, on what account of these questions, the answer is a working group or the answer is a specific commission. Because reality isn't white or black. There are certainly things for which a working group can be more useful and there are things for which it can be more useful – and it must also be recognized by the groups that today voted against – a specific committee. And that's not equidistance, it's realism. As it goes, what we have to say today is about one of these concrete proposals that is being debated in this Parliament: it is about the proposal to make a specific follow-up committee on disability. And yes, it does. It is useful, for example, for visibility, much more useful than a working group. It is useful for the cross-sectional view, much more than that of a working group fitted into a specific committee. It is useful for the permanence in time. We will vote in favour, for these purposes. We will vote in favour, in addition, because we are people on the floor, and we have given our word to the representative entities of this collection that if someone brought this proposal to Parliament we would vote in favour. We have a point, and we believe that it is fair to listen and act to place where we need to respond to the lack of guarantees of rights for people with disabilities in our country. And to Parliament, Mrs De la Calle, we need to be able to talk about everything – everything – you say to her representing a parliamentary group that is constantly showing itself, if for anything, no? I think they're clear, it's not to veto debates, because there's no old debate and to oppose what's old debate. Here we can talk about everything: 155, and the Castor; everything that affects the people, and obviously also social policies. And in any case, what would be good is that everyone, all groups, when we talk about the issue we're talking about, about 155, about the Beaver or about social policies, we do it with rigour, and we do it with responsibility, without ever using people and their rights as a weapon to make short-fly politics. We work, we want to work, as many hours as you need, and we'll do it that way. Because this is the meaning of our electoral commitments and our work: the struggle for civil and social rights, always placing people at the centre, the struggle for an inclusive society, with social cohesion, and doing so with rigour and responsibility. In this sense, we will work with the tool that has ended up in this Parliament: a specific committee or a working group. Specific committee, it seems to us correct; follow-up committee, and therefore we will vote in favour of this proposal today presented for Ciutadans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.78.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, and on his behalf, of Mr Vidal Aragonese. Yeah? [[Pause.]] From the escó?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.79.0	President, if there is no problem, because enough has already been said about the terms of the discussion, and we want to make an intervention, therefore, accurate to which is the centrality, first, I, to give the welcome to and the representative entities of people with disabilities who accompany us today. This subgroup already anticipates, it goes on, that it will vote against the motion for a resolution of the Citizens' Group, of Ciutadans; and it is not because it is against the objectives that the Citizens' Group poses, but rather because it thinks..., or because it thinks that these objectives will cover much better not in a specific follow-up committee, but in the Workers' Committee, Social Affairs and Families, they see the themes that, on the other hand, from the Citizens' Group to a specific committee. On the other hand, we have already made reference today to different groups and subgroups in which we have put forward a proposal to create a work group on disability within the Treball Commission; it is to say that no one, as a result of the vote that may become today, can come to the conclusion that the issue of disability, or of people, forgives, with disability, will be dealt with more or less, whichever the vote is. We're not talking about this, today, but going to solve what is the format or mechanism that we consider most effective. Since the CUP - Creed Constituent, the exercise we have done is, as a minimum, try to hear and transfer to the institution what is what the representative entities of persons with disabilities think about the present moment. And, for one band, the representative entities that they always talk about – if we, of course, have not misunderstood it – it is the need for cross-cutting policies, the import of cross-cutting policies; but also, these fan entities, they have brought us a need to approve a Catalan law of rights, not discrimination and included in the community of people with disabilities. If, of course, we remain centralized with these two questions, for one band, the need for transversality, and, for another band, also, the need for a certain law, then a certain law cannot last in a specific follow-up committee, but a certain law will have to last in a committee that has a legislative character. And the committee, obviously, that has a legislative character for these matters is the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Families, and that is why, obviously, we will vote against the Citizens' proposal, because we are in favour of a more effective exercise to have this law that we are asking representative entities of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.80.0	Thank you, Congressman. All the same, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. It's Mrs. Levy's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.81.0	Yeah. Briefly, because I believe that the arguments that focus on the purpose of the committee raised are shared by all. I think it is not a question of new or old politics, it is a question of good politics not to throw us into the race to see who wants to carry, running and fast, to say that it is the one that most represents social policies. I believe that in this we should know that we all in this Parliament will be in favour of working towards those analyses, those proposals, and those recommendations which have to be fed, precisely, by that working group which, in the opinion of this parliamentary subgroup, can be more effective. It is not a matter of substance that we are debating or that we are going to carry out in this vote, but of the substance of the matter. And I am absolutely convinced that all Members, the hundred and thirty-five members of this House, work equally if it is a study committee, work equally if it is a monitoring committee or if it is a parliamentary committee. Let us not demagogy, then, with the form. Let us not demagogue with this background either, which in any case will always be a desideratum. There is always going to be a need to work more and more for these people, for those entities that are accompanying us here today and that have the right, like any citizen, to see them represented in this chamber and in these institutions. And more by showing that in this matter, and as the rest of the colleagues in the other groups have recalled, certainly the Government of the Generalitat has accounts outstanding, has many accounts outstanding. It has accounts pending when it has denied necessary support to these special work centres, putting at risk, in addition, the work of many people with disabilities, when they have a waiting list in residences that exceeds four years in very many cases, or when there is less and less public budget allocated to disability. Let us remember, and always remember, that, moreover, Catalonia is the autonomous community that cut most in times of crisis in social policies. And another fact that should alarm us, and that is why I think we share, at least the parliamentary groups that we are not part of the independence government, the need for the studies, analyses and proposals in committees in this Parliament to be carried out, is also when justice is investigating whether the councillor of Afers Socials i Treball, in charge of these social benefits, has allocated part of its budget to structures and states and to the illegal referendum, therefore diverting public funds that should go to these entities and to these associations, in order to continue with their independence process. Therefore, let us not demagogue with the form, we can share, or not, what is the best tool for carrying out these analyses and these works; but I believe that basically all Members, I would dare to say, agree that it is necessary to continue implementing, to continue proposing and to continue studying the aids and improvements for this group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.82.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr David Rodríguez's return.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.83.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone, especially to representatives of the different entities in the disability sector who are accompanying us today. It's a big deal that you're doing partisanship with certain questions that need to be left out. It would be normal to discuss policies that affect people with disabilities, but not whether to create a committee to deal with them, when, in fact, there is already one, is said the Social Affairs Committee. Have you ever heard of creating a commission on the sidelines? Part of our responsibilities as politicians is to explain to the citizenry why some of their demands are possible and better than not. This is the way to act that I would like us to have as groups on the margins of legitimate political differences: to treat citizenship as adult people and to be able to explain to them that, sometimes, the answer must be 'no', even more so when what is raised today is not what the sector demanded. Nor have I listened to arguments in favour of the creation of the Commission, beyond criticism of the Government. And, curiously, we did hear about the process, I don't know who the monotheme is. Just to say that no, if you know how to explain it and we are able to give the answer to the legitimate needs you ask for. In the end and in the end, a commission is only a tool, not a finality in itself. And you must not be so wrong when a large majority of parliamentary groups no longer speak of Members, of all colors, we share that. If you see that you're on the highway and everyone's going in the opposite direction, maybe you're starting to think that you're wrong. Because what is already intolerable, and makes clear Ciutadan's intention with this proposal, is the arrogant response to which we are already getting too used, to the position of the rest of the groups. Your proposal will not succeed, and if you have a small amount of humiliation, you will have to ask yourself what is it that you have done wrong and why. You wanted to act as if you were acting alone, thinking that "they wouldn't vote against it because they wouldn't want to stay with the sector badly, and we would point at one so much. This is the problem: think more about it than about the effectiveness of Parliament's activity and treat citizens as underage. So you see, and I'm glad, this Parliament is more serious than you think. Do you mean that the only fact of creating a commission is that it has more visibility? We do an inquiry and ask the citizen how many follow-up commissions does Parliament have? Do you mean that it is not important for you that work policies are visible, since the Labour Commission has been abolished in this legislature? You mean that for you the poor are not important, since there is no own commission? Do we have to make a commission of all and each of the social issues that affect our society? What do you mean, the Social Affairs Committee? Perhaps what would be hot, before making proposals to satisfy anyone, with the intention of blocking four votes, is to make a serious and wide-ranging approach on how we can better organize the work in Parliament so as to respond better to the needs of the city council to which they owe us. There is a certain demagogicism and populism in this question, which does not hold for place. And the use of the disability sector, as in other social sectors, for a partisan interest, seems especially execrable to us. If you think you need to talk more about this, you have the mechanisms to do it. And that's just his responsibility. I can understand that they criticize the government, I would just lack that opposition not to do so; that they justify their criticism with the need to create a commission is the top of the demagogue. Does that mean that in all the rest of the questions in which they do not ask a committee of their own the government makes it perfect? The next week we will have in committee the Councillor's appearance and I am convinced that it will be clear to the Government that disability policies are one of its priorities. We can follow it from the Parliament, as we have done so far, and we can criticize it, if they think it is appropriate, and we can also congratulate them, if it comes down, even though I already know that this isn't going so well. Now, once I say all this, we've also listened to the sector, and we understand some of the requests they propose. We share the need to assess the adaptation of Catalan legislation to the principles of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and not only for the areas of social affairs, which are the object of study during 2011, but also for the whole set of laws and regulations that involve other areas of competition, such as work, justice, education, housing, business, etc. That is why we have agreed, five parliamentary groups of this chamber, five, the creation of a working group on this issue, and which can propose modifications, development or new specific legislation on this area, and which at the same time study the most ad hoc mode of transposition of the Convention on the part of the Parliament of Catalonia, since this action has not been done formally in this country. We understand that this is a much more effective way to work for the collection and facilitate in a short time, to respond to their main requests. I regret that Ciutadans did not want to join a general agreement of the groups in Parliament, and he preferred an arrogant and partisan attitude. In any case, we will vote against your proposal and defend in committee the creation of the work group on disability, because we are convinced that this is the best way to help the sector. Unfortunately, if they want to talk about the functioning of Parliament's committees, as always, we are open to talk about everything, but starting from a general approach, and from here to optimize the work that is done from this house, sensibly and rigorously, for the benefit of the city council. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.84.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it is the turn of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Mr Josep Maria Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.85.0	Good afternoon. Mr. President, Counsellor, Counsellor, Members of Parliament, Entities of the sector that you accompany us, thanks for accompanying us and for being ahead of..., the hope and defense of the sector and its rights and policies that must defend the guarantees of equality of persons with disabilities. If I had to ask myself what two things have made me more strange, or what two things have asked me more about the parliamentary world and what I would like to change most, one is, the first, the one that would say 'nominalism'; it is to say, that here many times all folds try to make us believe that we move the words build things, and it is only that, as we say, we move the words, right? And the other is the pure gesticulation we do here sometimes. Gesticulation is part of political life, and it's already good, and it's normal; now, when gesticulation is demagogic and uses right and needy people, then, this does require an urgent need to change it. Today we are talking about the creation of a specific follow-up committee on disability. We are talking about this medium, we are not talking about the involvement of the chamber, neither of the groups, nor of each of the Members in the compromise of defending the rights of equal opportunities of persons with disabilities and their better living conditions. We're not talking about this. Because, in this, I think we've all agreed that we're all involved; sometimes we're more or less uncertain, but here, signify one another and signify the other, that some want to work more and some want to work less, so it's magical gesticulation, and it's gesticulation of what's already to be abandoned. Today we are talking about the creation of a specific follow-up committee on disability. And we're talking about this. And as has been said before in the interventions of some of the previous Members, we are looking at whether this is the best way to achieve the objective of monitoring the needs of equal opportunities in the disability sector. That's what we're assessing here. And in this sense, we will vote against it. It seems to me that Mrs Ribas has said this: there are advantages; life is not all white and black, and surely we can find positive aspects of the creation of a disability-specific follow-up committee – sure there can be positive elements. But there are also positive elements in a working group, and then we have to add and subtract and look at what are the arguments for which to vote favorably one thing or another. We are not leaving without consideration the demand that the sector makes to visualize itself, to pay attention to its needs, to its demands. We're not doing this kind of, say, look at another side of his cries and his needs. We're offering another alternative. We're offering an alternative, which is the work group. And a working group that means it's a specific compromise to achieve a result and a pronunciation that you allow... and, in this concrete case, it's the adequacy of Catalan law to the UN directives. Moreover, I would like to make a few other arguments for which to justify the vote against creation, which is not demagic to the neglect, nor much less, of the disability sector; not only because of the demographic importance of the 8_per_cent of the Catalan population, but also because it was one person who deserved all our attention. Why else? In addition to offering an alternative, how can the creation of a working group at this committee be, why? So, because things have a history. There is a history, and we have already talked, at the time of setting up the commissions of this legislature, about the creation of a disability commission specifically. And we looked at different formulas; the theme of the name, as has been commented; the theme of another... I'm glad you didn't. And agreements serve to complete them – agreements serve to complete them. We may disagree, but one time you get to the pact, you get to the pact. And it came to this pact. And this is one. The disability monitoring committee already has a committee that allows it to follow up on its considerations, which is the Commission for Work, Social Affairs and Families. You've got this commission. And even more so than having this commission, we're now offering it a realization that went beyond that, and it's the work group. Therefore, his problem is not left unsolved. It has been repeated, in various previous interventions, that if someone uses it magically to say that there is no care for the problems, the demands of the world of disability, because it is not creating a commission, then what do you mean? What of the other actors and the other needy who don't have commission is that there's no cure? Is there any... all the deputies that we are here, that we are not sensitive, for example, to the problems of dependence? To the problems of the poor? Is it that we're not sensitive? It's that I don't want to believe; it's that it's impossible that there's no such sensibility here. Visualizing the requests of the disability community can be done in many ways. We're offering an alternative. We're offering a way. One way, more and more, agreed and awake. And that's our concern. And that's what we take, and that's the compromise we take. And if you think it's not enough the government action that's done, that's why there are different ways of..., resolution proposals, motions..., to go controlling the government and waiting for it because I'm acting in another way, or acting in a way that you think is more relevant. At the end and end, the sector does not seek differentiation, the sector that seeks – and that is all – is equality in rights and opportunities. It does not seek differentiation; it does not seek a singularization in a new commission. And if there is this demand, and if this demand persists or if it is formulated in another context, clearly you can consider. Actually, this wasn't going to end here forever. The possibility of creating commissions in another context, in another legislature, at another time, is on the table. But what we cannot accept in any way is that we are told that there has been no sensitisation, no concern or gain in working for people who are demanding equal opportunities and rights. And in this equal opportunity and equal rights, we are 135 members of this chamber. For this position, we will vote against the creation of this disability monitoring committee. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.86.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Naomi from Sifré Street asks to speak.]] Yeah. Mrs. De la Calle...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.87.0	He's asking for the contradiction word from Congressman Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.88.0	Say it. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.89.0	Yeah. Mr Moreno, with your intervention you have justified the need to create a specific committee dealing with the issue of disability in an integral way, because you yourself have not heard of the proposals on disability that are currently being wasted by the different committees, which, in the case of Citizens, is not just one, as you said, but seven, distributed in the commissions of Afers, Educació i Territori, because there is no specific committee for this. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.90.0	Mr. Moreno...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.91.0	Thank you, President. For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.92.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.93.0	Mrs. De la Calle, I think I've made it clear. To the Commission for Work, Social Affairs and Families, you have registered with the SIAP a proposal for a resolution, which more than anything else has to do with the tolls. So what I'm saying is, to the band that you proposed a follow-up committee on disability issues, if you do, what you would have to do in another way, or what you would have to do to complement that, is to do a policy consisting of defending people with disabilities, which they don't do in this Parliament or in the Congress of Deputies, when you have vetoed accessibility because all people can access their buildings, their equipment in an easy way. So, you, beyond asking...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.94.0	Mr. Moreno, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.95.0	...commissions, what they should do is just do politics. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.96.0	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. [[Pause.]] This motion for a resolution was rejected by 43 votes to 68, with 22 abstentions. [[Proposal for a resolution establishing a commission of inquiry into the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia]] [[252-00011/12]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, which is the... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, be quiet. [[Pause.]] Let's move to the next point, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a commission of inquiry on the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia. This proposal was presented jointly for the Parliamentary Groups of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republic. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet. [[Pause.]] Therefore, to present this initiative, we will start the debate with the two proposed parliamentary groups, and then we will turn the intervention to defend the papers and position ourselves, with the maximum time of two minutes for each of the parliamentary groups, and five for the subgroup. So, therefore, in the first place there is the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Magda Casamitjana. Forward, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.97.0	Thank you very much, President. President, Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors, today the Parliamentary Groups of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Group present this motion for a resolution creating a committee on the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. We have rejected papers from the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, and from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance. I have also spoken, of course, and as we will always do, with the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, despite the fact that they disagree; with the People's Party, and with Congresswoman Elisenda Alamany, of Catalonia in Comú Pode, with whom I have committed myself to incorporate before, the moment and after this 155. We ask the parliamentary groups with whom we have not agreed to facilitate the creation of this committee, which must clarify many doubts, many uncertainties, many fears and many indications or suspicions of lawlessness. The reality is that confusion, disconcert and perplexity of many and many citizens respect this evil done are alive and active. In the conversation I could have with Congressman Pedret, it is clear that we are living a completely different reality and that it is reflected in the presentation of each of the reasons. But, Mr Pedret, not all Socialists or the people of the Socialist Party of Catalonia think like you do. At the time, a senior leader of the PSC said: "I am sure that the majority of socialists do not approve of this. I will do well, Pedro Sánchez i Miquel Iceta, to consult with the PSOE and the PSC's militia, [[Funnel veils]] As the statues say it's going to be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.98.0	A moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a moment, a
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.99.0	...on matters of special relevance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.100.0	Congresswoman, congresswoman, a moment, please. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.101.0	And then said, this senior leader, that Catalonia is a nation and has a right that does not derive from the Spanish Constitution. It's a tempt of incalculable consequences for decades, of a seizure of legal hair, of a stupid politics. Today in Catalonia, on the street, there is dialogue, it is discussed and it is talked about everything, and above all this 155; you are not the main protagonist. To Parliament, therefore, we do not just need to talk, but we want to know a lot more; we want to know everything: what happened during these seven months of 155, which have been the real consequences, which are seen and which have not been seen directly but which have caused heavy damage in the day-to-day administration, of entities and of people. All parliamentary groups and political parties have our version of the facts, and in this committee we have the opportunity to make them clear. We'll talk about the political context, of course. We'll also talk about the Spanish Constitution. And also from this 2006 Statute, which was supported by the 88_per_cent of the Parliament and, still, passed through the congressional routing and ended the Constitutional Court, and which has certainly not yet been referred to. Cessations, undertakings, dissolutions of organisms, paralysis of subsidies and initiatives to help people, the imposition of the castle so that yes, or the attempt to close and block Catalan communication media. We would like to know why, yes, the Government of the Government of the Government of the Republic of Catalonia ceased to exist, why the Parliament of Catalonia was dissolved, why the Diplomat was dissolved, why the Government's delegations were closed to the outside world, how the guaranteed income of citizens had been deployed, why the Pla de fois de disparegutos was frozen during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship, why the paralysis of a call for more than five hundred seats by Mossos d'Esquadra, why the delays in payments and subsidies were delayed. Who are the sources, tell me, of what we have 5 members of the Government in exile, 10 persons retained, 251 persons ceased, 24 bodies suppressed or dissolved, 16 bodies intervened, 108 legislative initiatives lapsed, 8 designations of positions by the Government, 92 assignments per contract, 12 activities cancelled or suspended, 9 lines of subsidisation to date and 7 losses of economic opportunities? I want to read here an example of what sums up what has happened to all the departments and what has caused the collapse of who has taken over a country without knowing its Administration, no longer their people and their culture, and, less, managed it that they do. Desirousness and vulgar ignorance have caused immense discomfort and atzucac. "The consequences of 155 are still evident in Catalan health. It came at a time when much of the content of the legislature was already in progress: the Plan against waiting lists, the Universality Act, the new strategy for primary care, the drive for community health, the fight against social inequalities, and the focus on mental health. The implementation of 155 shielded health care and the administrative cost, which was higher than calculated by the Ministry. Article 155 still has implications for Catalan health. It was difficult for the ministry to understand the system of tariffs for health providers, as delays put at risk the salaries of social-health service providers, for example. In the end, we managed to get them to understand it, but at other times there was not so much luck: subsidies and agreements that could not be approved were affected in 2017 and remained pending for 2018, dilated over time. It was not easy to work, we came to sign forty_ thousand responsible statements, documents that assured that what we were going to spend had no purpose any referendum or action linked to independence. There was totally unnecessary administrative control: phonendoscopes are no good for referendums. The objective of achieving constitutionality was exceeded. Thanks to the CatSalut, the ICS and all health professionals, 155 had less impact than it could have had. MPs and MPs, I want to give you a cipher that we can't let go of today. Today, even so, with 155 including, now, almost 80 percent of Catalans reject the bitter and cruel judicial receipt that has taken hold of the entrepreneurs. This 80_per_cent data surpasses all political divisions, and returns, as president, to the lowest denominator of Catalanism. Calen responses to the unjust yet unjust consequences, especially personal, political and country-specific. I finish with the words of Joan Tardà: "The Spanish State has two honest people locked up in prison for their ideas, closed up to defend democracy, freedom and the right of the people to decide. The object of the precautionary measures of imprisonment is clearly humiliation, and the proof that this persecution is ideological is the fact that justice promises them salvation whenever they renounce their faith and comply with the divisive control of Article 155. We manage, therefore, lords and lords, deputies and deputies, politically, the one that surrounds us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.102.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word "Mrs Gemma Geis".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.103.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. From Junts to Catalunya and the Republican Group we are here to defend the proposal for a resolution to create a commission of investigation of 155. On October 27, the People's Party, the PSOE and Citizens agreed on 155 and applied it here to Catalonia. The approval of 155 implied an increase in the repression that we are still living; the Speaker Puigdemont, Vice-President Junqueras and the Government of the Generalitat, so as to be able to undertake them; the Parliament of Catalonia was dissolved, and elections were called for; the financial intervention, which had already occurred unconstitutionally, because it did not have legal coverage, was converted into an absolute intervention of the finances of the Generalitat ; the suppression of the offices, offices, commissions of the Generalitat... The self-government of Catalonia was suppressed. But the results were revalidated on 21 December, because there is an independent and republican majority in the Parliament of seventy Members. And let's make it clear: they have not respected the election results because there is a majority that has ratified Parliament to invest President Puigdemont. They have violated the civil and political rights of our parliamentary group president, Jordi Sánchez, of Councillor Turull, undertaken in the middle of an investiture session, and we tell them that repression hinders the way but we do not give up the aim of achieving a Catalan Republic of progress for everyone. And with this commission of inquiry we are absolutely determined to put on the darkest period since the recovery of self-government in Catalonia, which is from October 27, 2017 until June 2, 2018. Three are the objectives of the committee of inquiry: the first, to know what happened before the application of 155; the second, the duration, political responsibilities and quantification of the damage of 155, and the third, what we do after this 155. In relation to the day before, we want to know who perpetrated the 155, more concretely what dinners there were in Moncloa, Zarzuela, with many of those who are now profiled; what was the role of the PSC, of Mr. Iceta, of Mr. Millo, of the King of the 3_per_cent..., of the 3 of October [[remorse of the voice]] , from '" to them– ui, yes; how I was here at that time. They already know about the tricks and pizzas with which they negotiated the innovative precautionary measures adopted by the Constitutional Court with the investiture of President Puigdemont. You have political responsibilities ahead of the damage that has been caused, and our responsibility is to demand them. Now we have President Sánchez's new Spanish government, and in this government we find Vice President Calvo and Minister Batet, both of whom were negotiators with the PP of 155. We hope to see another face of these ministers of this government, who accept the democratic game, who can talk about everything, and also the right to self-determination of the people of Catalonia. And it's just that we can't assume that... 155 took a chance on democracy, a shot at the polls, a shot at what the citizens of Catalonia had chosen. The leaders of the People's Party, with only four deputies, were good enough to occupy the Generality and 155, and the ballot boxes have punished them, they have never given them the keys of the Generality. The Lords of Citizens already know how to respect the self-government of Catalonia, with a Lord Rivera who defends to keep to aeternum 155 and even limit the representation of independence to the Congress and the Senate. And, with the PSC, so remind Mr. Iceta that there were mayors, right? , of recognizable prestige, people of the world of the Socialist Party, which were also positioned against the application of 155. We want to know the duration. Why? Because I understand that this article 155 is absolutely unconstitutional. We could enter into legal discussions, but, for example, Professor Eduard Roig, Minister Batet's new cabinet, said: "The 155 is a political instrument, and, like any political decision, the interpretation of how to achieve the objective and even its concrete configuration is controversial. And I say to them: " 155 is a political and non-legal issue, and it affected the interests of all citizens. Moreover, Eduard Roig himself stated that ‘the suspension of Parliament does not fall within the scope of the possibilities opened up by 155. Therefore, they applied an absolutely unconstitutional 155. The animosities, from the Faristol, to the very extensive interpretation of 155..., to the other spheres of democracy, to the recognition of the right to self-determination and the democratic principle to be governed by the Constitution, because the Spanish Constitution is not of election, it is of submission, to which in article 2 it enshrines the principle of indissolubility of the Spanish nation, and, on the other hand, on the 1st of October what we wanted was a republic of accession and not a republic of submissiveness. We also want to determine who is the legal political context and determine the damages that 155_has caused to the citizen and that the same sign of hardships has detailed in a report, and here we have, the damages that my company has, so, mentioned earlier, but these damages have affected all the citizens. Or is it that you, when you ruled and there was the tripartite, only ruled for those who voted for them? So the current government also rules over all those... whether they've voted or not. And what kind of damage are we talking about? The ideological pursuit of the Generality's functions, such as, for example, the cessation of the communication head of the Mossos, that its trajectory has been internationally recognized by August's storms; the legal defence of the Generality, and to take advantage of, for the works of Sixena, of this insecurity and this exposure of the Generality, therefore, abuse it; third, the effects of the public contract so sensitive as, for example, that the Mossos could not buy material to guarantee the safety of the citizens; the economic concerts, subsidies made to the social entities, paralysing the support to the internationalization, the integral plan of the Urgency of Catalonia, with a gift of 16 million dollars worth of money to purchase the hospital; the hospital's responsibility for the mission. And also highlight, for example, how they have abused 155 to sue President Mas. Therefore, arbitrariness, abuse, defencelessness. And, for all this, we must demand political responsibility. And at this point we also need to express and emotionally recognize the task of the public servants of the Generality during these months of 155, in which, in a way that compromises with the interests of the country and the citizens, they have continued to render their public services and their activity, and therefore a huge and sincere thanks. [[Greetings.]] Here too we have to say the limitation that we have experienced as Members and Members. During the months of 155, we have not been able to carry out our function of controlling the activities of the Government of 155. And, therefore, I understand that a 155 commission can help us to complete with the debts that we have not been able to control the 155 government. The third objective: what do we do after 155? One time we have analyzed the damage, so we believe this parliamentary committee in Parliament to be able to execute those functions that we have not done for many months, and, at the level of government, we celebrate the appointment of Pau Vilòria, commissioned by the Presidency for the deployment of the self-government..., that Mr Vilòria has asked me today to apologize for his presence, but that it is made available to all the Members to be able to work in this investigative committee. Their tasks are basically to quantify and repair the damage of 155 and to urge the corresponding responsibilities. And, therefore, given the legal, social and also historical transcendence, I believe that it is completely justified that this Parliament should approve a commission of inquiry in order to determine the political context, to be able to determine these damages, to be able to determine their complicity and responsibilities. And finally, because, as it stands on the plaza of the U of October of Girona, with the wise words of Professor Xavier Antich, there is one thing worse than oblivion: not knowing that it is oblivious. And this is our pocket: let me know and know the damage of 155 because no one can say a day I didn't know I was forgetting. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.104.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. All followed is the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.105.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, first of all, our group wants to make a point of the elements that we believe have characterized the political context in which 155 has finally been applied. Therefore, we want to make the democratic and popular revolt of the 1st of October and 3rd of October necessary, with the antecedent also of the 20th of September, and the consequent declaration of the republic of the 27th of October, and now, indeed, the coup d'état, the coup d'état of the 155th, which was the reaction of the Spanish State to this democratic and popular revolt in our country. On the other hand, without undermining the administered effects of the 155 application and the blocking and jamming of multiple actions of the Generality, as has been done simply enough, the dismissals and suppression of public bodies, that is to say, if not from our point of view, that the basic services and the ordinary functions of the Public Administration in Catalonia have been managed by the State with some normality – with some normality. From our point of view, this demonstrates the little autonomy we have, and that paradoxically you – we mean most groups – today they want to recover as a priority. And, in this sense, it must also take into account the resolutions of the Constitutional Court before 155, article 135 of the Constitution, the FLA, among other limiting conditions of self-government and which, today, in the absence of 155, remain fully in force and severely limiting the self-government of Catalonia. In this framework, it is worth highlighting the resilience and resilience of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and of the Catalan public school, despite the attempts of the State to intervene, an example to follow – this is our opinion and our proposal – in the creation of structures of the State and the construction of sobrieties, with an exception that we want to highlight, the renewal of concerts to the schools that secrete by sex, that the Spanish State ran to formalize, making pale like the school agreed is today a weak ball in our educational sovereignty. Even so, from our point of view, especially difficult in the application of 155 has been the dissolution of the Parliament of Catalonia and the convening of early autonomous elections, the dissolution of the Government of the Generality and, with the words of the Parliament's letters, if I do not recall it wrongly, "the imposition of an exceptional state, under the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, which prevents this Parliament from dealing freely with certain debates and resolutions related to the right to self-determination, impediment, seems to be, today still in force in view of the controversy and controversy that, according to some groups, has generated our motion, which we shall see tomorrow, on the return of the suspended laws and annulments for the Constitutional Court. And finally, finally, the sense of our ideas that go in the line of deepening in the context and the causes of the coup d'état, inclusive, but three factors that we believe should not be missed. For a song, the one that was at that time the decision of the Government of Junts per el Si not to support the declaration of the Republic and the one that seems to us to be very relevant, from the point of view of which they intend to address this commission, the decision, in our opinion, of the Government of the Generality at that time, of the Catalan Public Administration at that time, to acquit the application of 155, to obey the application of 155, is an issue that I believe we will have to discuss, why was there not resistance and disobedience to the application of 155? Nor should we lose sight of the fact that 155 has been withdrawn, but, as we said before, they follow the other restrictions that give us an interventional autonomy. From our point of view, indeed, only the Republic will restore dignity to our institutions, respect democracy in Catalonia and allow a genuine self-government. And, finally, there are also our considerations in the sense of the need for a joint vision and appreciation that encloses 155, repression, lack of judicial independence and the performance of the conjunction of the actors of the 78th Regime as a system. We saw the 78 rule as a perfectly cohesive and perfectly articulated system, which set up a true state of exception and suspension of democracy in Catalonia. Finally, I would like to welcome and welcome the acceptance of the papers by the proposing and also moving parliamentary groups. We understand that they have made a political effort to value and that, without doubt, will strengthen the creation of this commission and its objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.106.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it's the turn, on the part of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Forward Units, of Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.107.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillor, Councillors, Councillors; Members and Members, before entering into the argument itself, I would like to make a point to Mrs Casamitjana, who referred to a telephone conversation that we actually had, thanks to the deference she called us to talk about the issue that we had presented in this proposal, in which I may have been unable to understand what she attributed to me, but I would say that we did not have a debate about the question of self-determination, huh? Therefore, if we quote phone conversations, we quote the contents of the conversations that are strictly fed to this. Now, talking about self-determination? We have absolutely no problem, said Minister Calvo, a long time ago, said Minister Batet, still less, and we have no problem talking about it. In fact, we have not only had and have had discussions about this, but we have published material around the issue, there has not been enough connection with the question of Catalonia and, in fact, it is you, the members of the majority independentist parliament, so aware of the difficulties that exist to fit the case of Catalonia into this internationally recognized right, that in your day they have set a whole term, let us say, innovative in the debate of the right as is the right to decide, to find a better fit to the claim that they legitimately pursue, but in that we do not accompany them. So there's no problem talking about it. Then, the truth is that Mrs. Casamitjana also spoke of a willingness to talk about everything and quoted Congresswoman Alemany, of the Catalonian Group in Comú Pode, with whom she had committed herself to talking about everything. I do not know whether you have convinced them or not, I do not intend to ask them to respect this, but it has cost us a little to believe already with the original drafting of the proposal, even after the incorporation of the CUP papers and even after the interventions of Mrs Casamitjana and Mrs Geis, that I intend to talk about everything, because when a desire to talk about the effects of the application of 155 and its context, it has to do with it, effectively, everything, and it has to do with it, if it is sincere the will, even in the very writing of the proposal. We've been trying to do a better job than we thought was going through the past few months, and it's obvious that we don't agree, obviously we don't agree, but it seems to me that there's a substantial difference between what we're trying to do and what you've done. We almost kept all the contents of his proposal intact; yes, we added what we thought was at the origin of the situation in which we found ourselves. Now, so, you don't want to talk about it – you don't want to talk about it – you have a difficulty with the mere relationship of the facts that actually happened here between September 6 and October 27. I understand that this relationship of fact is not particularly well-kept, when, after, the mouth of constitutional guarantees, procedural guarantees, etc. is filled, because there was, between September 6 and October 27, an attempt to depose the conjunction of the citizens and citizens of Catalonia from the civil and political rights that are vested in the State and in the Constitution. And then, some, such as Mr Riera, speak of "a date of state, when they refer to the application of a mechanism provided for in the Constitution, such as Article 155, which respects the application of which, both from the point of view of political and legal aspects, as from the point of view of management and effects, we are absolutely prepared to discuss; in fact, it seems to us that our society and its Parliament are discussing this, but we need to discuss everything that has passed these past months. Because, look, you, as we speak of a time of state, are perfectly familiar, we had occasion to discuss it at a relatively recent Meeting of Spokespersons, of Kelsen's definition, of the pure theory of the right, which is a time of state. The quote will not be literal, because not the port pointed out, but says, roughly, that it is any illegitimate intention to change the Constitution or replace it with another, regardless of the reform mechanisms provided for in the same Constitution. And, besides, you say that, for this reason, to consider it this way, it is regardless of whether it is made by an armed group, by a small group of organized citizens, that it is made against the Government, that it is made from the Government, that it is made with the use of force or that it is made without the use of force. That's what Kelsen says about the coup d'état. And on September 6th, a law was passed here that intended to replace the Constitution and the Statute, all abrogating them by an approved law here, without any guarantee of procedure, without a qualified majority, without democratic legitimacy and which is eericated in a menu of pseudo-constitution, of protoconstitution. I don't know what Kelsen would say about what a little bit of a state is and what's not. But in any case, that's what I think we should talk about. And they actually tell us that they want to talk about everything, that they want to talk about everything and that we have to hear, I guess, that I don't know if they said that directly, but we have to hear that, clearly, after the investigation, the conclusions, therefore, would be open to which we have discussed. It gives us the feeling that the conclusions are already sufficiently pointed out, with the explanatory statement of the proposal that they bring us, with the very wording of the object of the investigation that leaves little to the imagination, to say it in colloquial terms, because it is now, directly, advancing the conclusions and I will not like to say that the drafting of the conclusions is already done, because, probably, it is not so, we understand that it is customary to do things more late, more improvised in this majority of Parliament, but in any case, it seems that the great lines are pointed already in the interventions of Mrs. Casamitjana and Mrs. Geis. Therefore, an absolutely part-relationship – absolutely part-relationship –, eh? , as it is, perhaps, understandable at first, but if the sincere intention is to arrive at a shared conclusion for this Parliament about what all these months passed and also with the application of 155, it is a bad starting point, to say in French that you are wary of the songs chosen and I believe they have all the reason of the world. Look, I think a society like Catalan, which has experienced political and social events in the past few years and, with special intensity, in the last months that have been remarkably traumatic, that have polarized the Catalan society enormously, needs to make a sincere exercise to see if we are able to weave basic consensuses, to retrace them, in some case, we would say, at least, to weave basic consensuses, a minimum shared report on what happened in the past months, in the later years. To do so, obviously, a synthesizing exercise between positions will be warm, points of view that are far removed from what has passed. And that's perfectly understandable, before, I think Mrs. Casamitjana gave it, too, we live in my differences. Well, from the point of view of material and physical, obviously not, but it is certain that, in this context of polarization and political tension, they have gone to Catalonia – and we, like PSC, have always been concerned and we have always said so – in the past few years, they have gone to make up two different political communities, with a different political narrative regarding what they had gone through in the past years and in the past months, with a different explanation of why things were happening and, as we allow it to separate and go away, it will be more difficult, then, to continue to live together and share some basic consensus, a framework of coexistence. Because I think it was, in this case, Mrs. Geis who said: "No, we were pretending to be an accession republic and not an imposition. So, if that's what they're trying to do, the weakness of their political project is round, round, because there hasn't been an adherence of the vast majority of Catalan society to this political project that you're defending and, more importantly, in the way you try to implement it, if you can't talk about imposition, I don't know what to talk about. It was absolutely unilateral, but not unilateral only with respect to the institutions of the State or the Government of the State, it was unilateral with respect to a social majority that does not have a parliamentary expression, in view of the distribution of escons between provinces, rather than to the Electoral Law, but in any case it does not share its project. Therefore, I believe that all folds and all folds need to reflect around the insistence on trying to impose a perfectly legitimate political project, such as the creation of an independent Catalan state, to a social majority that does not fly, that does not share it. And while we continue to try to make one's narrative triumph over another's narrative, we will collectively fail. That's what we've been trying to say for many years now, in a situation like the present, with a distribution of preferences such as that which exists in Catalonia around the question of secession, any claim of victory of one half over the other half of the country – and that's not just about independence – it's a fraction of a collection, it's a fraction of a collection. And let's stay on top of this and go to this committee or any of Parliament's committees with this at the top or, but what we're waiting for is twenty, thirty years of political and social stagnation in Catalonia, which is something we can't afford. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.108.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Next, she has the word to fix position, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.109.0	Thank you, Vice President. Bona tarda, MPs, MPs, Councillors, President, well, a few weeks ago, when, at last, they formed government, after a lot of dizziness, in the sight of the president and the rest of the Councillors you had chosen. In Citizens we had two clear things, the first, which you had not come here to rule, you have come here to confront, and the second is that, far from making self-criticism, you were going to continue with the usual victimism. Well, look, said and done. What brings us to this plenary session? A commission to talk about disability? No; we have already seen that you are not interested in this, it has already become clear what your priorities are. A proposal to talk about the problems and needs of Catalans? No, neither; it is that you are more comfortable in the conflict, in the mess. A commission of inquiry, for example, or a study to see how we fight corruption? No, man, no; you're already in charge of covering the good with the stellate, no. You here today do what we told you that you were going to do: you bring back a commission to talk about more process, more mess and more victimism. I, lately, every time I read something of yours, I have to act as if I have to activate the translator of nationalism, don't I? I mean, to know what you say and what actually happened. It's kind of like what you buy online and what comes home to you later. This is the same thing: on the one hand, there is what you explain what happened and on the other what actually happened, huh? They're running this mantra factory, aren't they? And then there are proposals, like this one that bring us here now. So today, this exercise that I normally do in the office, because I'm going to do it here today to see what you tell us with this proposal. I start with the explanatory statement: we are told that on 27 October the Spanish Government intervenes in Catalonia applying 155 of the Constitution. Man, maybe here you've forgotten a little bit, and it's that Mr. Puigdemont and his people had just given a blow to democracy. All existing legality had been violated and the rights of all Catalans had been trampled on. But you, of this, here, no peep, as if you..., as if you've never broken a plate, huh? The first mantra: how good we are, how bad everyone else is. Second mantra: we are also told here that, in your opinion, 155 limited the functions of Parliament. But, of course, what are the functions of Parliament? To legislate outside the Constitution, as you did with your disconnection laws? Is Parliament's function to bypass the rulings of the courts, as they have done and as they continue to do, today we have seen, bypassing the Supreme Court's ruling? The functions are to spend the money of all Catalans on their illegalities, which is what they were dedicated to? Are these the functions of Parliament? Look, do you know who limited Parliament's own functions? Mr. Puigdemont. Mr Puigdemont when he decided to shut down Parliament so that we could not talk about health, social affairs, education or anything here. These are the functions of Parliament. But you..., you tried to gag the opposition so that here you couldn't even do the control sessions to the government. Mrs. Geis, you were complaining. By the way, this is what they intend to do now with that parallel Parliament of theirs where only the independenceist parties are going to be. Are you going to make a commission of inquiry for this too? Or not for this? This doesn't need to be investigated, does it? They'll explain it to us. I'm following up on the motivations they have. Look, we're also told that in the December elections, the sovereign options won a majority. Look, the elections on December 21 were won by Citizens, and if the nationalist parties make up the majority it is because of an unjust electoral law, which gives more seats to those who have fewer votes on the street. That is curious, because you do not like any Spanish law; now, you love it, you love it very much, you and bipartisanism. We know why. Next paragraph. You continue with the mantra machine running, and you tell us that 155 has been an attack on the legitimate aspirations of the Catalan people. Your favorite mantra. I repeat: the elections of 21 December won the Citizens. Stop talking on behalf of the entire Catalan people; stop thinking that Catalonia is yours; stop already forgetting millions of Catalans who want to remain Catalan, Spanish and European, who are already sick of their troubles, their lies, that you are invading the streets, the institutions, the beaches with symbols that exclude them. You, who fill your mouth talking about dialogue, start by talking to those millions of Catalans who have been ignoring and scorning them for years as if they did not exist. Because, you know what's going on? Look, they'll be able to ignore us, they'll be able to despise us, they'll be able to declare us unthankful, but do you know what they'll never do? To silence us, neither to us nor to the 1,100,000 Catalans who have already said enough. I continue now with what you tell us..., I finish with the explanatory statement, and now what do you tell us that you have to investigate this commission? First point: analysis of the causes and justification of 155. Well, it must be that you have amnesia. What's the matter, that you don't remember September 6th and 7th? Do you not remember when you decided to go over the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy? You silenced the bloc opposition, which represented more Catalans than separatism; you violated the rights of millions of Catalans and went beyond all the warnings we gave them. That's why 155 was applied, and you know it. What are you going to do, what are you going to investigate, yourselves? Are you going to call upon Mr Puigdemont here to appear, to tell us, to see, to tell the saint what all the legality was missed; to tell us, to see, to tell the saint what he illegally used the data of all Catalans, to explain to us why he came here to break sentences and disobey them? Are you going to do that? Come on, or, better yet, are you going to call here to meet Mr. Tardà to explain to us what he meant when he told us that 155 was going to piss us off? Well, if you knew exactly what you were doing, and you knew its consequences. 155's responsibility is yours. They knew it then and they know it now. What's going on is that you guys are better at victimism, What else do they tell us they want to investigate? Yeah, yeah... they want to know if the adoption was legal. Well, this, yeah, another mantra of yours. You here, according to you, represent legality and democracy. I mean, it's hard work. The separatist parties talking about legality, those who have every week on the verge of a new attempt to put Parliament outside the scope of legality, come to us to talk about legality. I also remind you that 155 was implemented by Mrs Artadi, who has it here, and Mr Aragonès, actively, moreover, told us by the previous Government. What are you going to do? Will they come to the appearance, to the commission to appear? Are they going to ask themselves or what? Because this is absurd. More things you ask for: analysis of the violation of the fundamental rights of citizens. Are you really going to give us rights, that is, lessons from rights violations? Are you really going to give lessons? Do you believe anything you have written here in this motion for a resolution? Indeed, the rights of Catalans are violated when you try to silence the opposition that represents you. The rights of Catalans are violated when you use your data illegally. The rights of Catalans are violated when you invade the institutions with symbols that exclude them. Start digging around. More stuff. Analysis and quantification of the damage caused. But are you aware of the damage you have done with your happy process? You have put Catalonia's self-government in check, you have profoundly damaged Catalonia's image internationally, and you continue to do so, Mr. Torra, with last week's lame show in Washington. You have caused the flight of thousands of companies from Catalonia. Do we quantify that damage, too? Do we quantify and analyze the damage they have done to Catalan society by breaking the split? Are they going to make a commission of inquiry on this issue, or is that not relevant? More things: « Analysis of possible responsibilities, including criminal ones, tell us. I just don't know if to stop here anymore... because, come on, those who break the law, those who run away to not be accountable to justice, these now tell us that we have to investigate responsibilities, even criminal ones. Of what? Of the application of the article in the Constitution that was made according to the legal channels? I, it's just... really. Another point, the last one already: impact, international impact. Look, this one's gonna be easy, huh? , because if you plan to call on those who give you international support, with a quarter of an hour you will be left. They are left, let's go, because you really, that is, you can call the extreme European right, let Salvini come, and stop counting – and stop counting – because you have no international support. And from the European authorities everyone has told you the same thing, that what you have done goes against the rule of law; it goes against the Constitution; it goes against the Statute of autonomy and therefore it goes against the legal order of the European Union. Really, that's that out of all this, you don't save a single point. I mean, from a lying commission it's impossible for them to get one truth. I mean, what are they going to investigate, how independence is declared? What are they going to investigate, how are the rights of millions of Catalans trampled? How can thousands of businesses be driven away? They don't need to be investigated, if that's what's good enough for them. I mean, this is the world backwards. You're not gonna make a commission to talk about September 6th and 7th, are you? Or they're going to investigate, for example, the espionage of journalists and political parties, aren't they? No, no. You come here to ask for a commission to recreate yourself in your lies and recreate yourself in victimism. A commission of lies to continue with the mess and confrontation, which is yours. Look, just like you can convince others, others here, so here, they say there's normality and there's nothing going on here, but we certainly don't get fooled. When they really assume their failure, when they really want to rule for all Catalans, when they really want to regain coexistence in Catalonia we will be there; in the meantime, stop wasting our time. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.110.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roldán. Next, on behalf of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs. Elisenda Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.111.0	Thank you. Deputies, Members, Councillors, Councillors, on 27 October 2017 the President of the Spanish Government of that moment, Mr Rajoy, decreed the suspension of the Catalonian self-government and the total intervention of the Catalan institutions, of all Catalans and all Catalans, thinking what they thought and defending what they were defending. The 27th of October 2017 was a fateful date when the self-government of this country was eroded, returning to the dark past. Some of us thought they wouldn't come back and we wouldn't see or live again. The 155 taxation lasted seven months and three days, when the Catalan institutions were annulled; institutions such as the Parliament and the Generality, which were difficult to recover, were abolished. It is necessary to investigate the damage caused to the institutions of Catalonia's self-government, but it is also true that Catalonia is more likely to have debates about the future and less of the past. And repair is important, both as the solutions of the foundations and as the political proposals that will allow to build a new future for Catalonia. The taxation of 155 is the legal receipt of those who do not have political solutions, from those who delegate political action to legal debates and even to legal uncertainty or legal doubts. That's why from Catalonia in Comú We can with our allies to the United Congress We can, with the Sea and Commitment we filed an unconstitutional appeal before Article 155, before this action. Action in which we do not forget that we arrive for various reasons, the main authoritarianism of the People's Party that has acted systematically violating rights and freedoms. An authoritarianism that has brought years of practice from the Spanish Government with the approval of the law bites, with the persecution of political criticism of social movements, artistic censorship, the impresoniment of singers, and also slowly political and social leaders for their political actions. But we have also come to the centralist « Aznarista de Ciutadans, who actually won the elections on 21 December, but for winning the elections we have listened very few political proposals leading to a solution, a proposal to unlock or to get out of sugar where Catalonia was in the last few months. We have only seen proposals to generate more rift, more tension, or even more fracture in Catalan society, but not a political solution. And we have also arrived, unfortunately, for the follow-up of the PSOE or for the silence responsible for the Socialist Party of Catalonia in many cases complicated by the People's Party of Albiol, also for the flight of votes to Ciutadans. We'd already like to get out of the darkroom where they put up with these two partners at some point. They have only been able to apply legal prescriptions when no political solutions have been found. The intervention lasted 218 days; an intervention that treated what happened to Catalonia as if it were a natural disaster. A natural disaster that forces us to declare a state of emergency where we must intervene via 155, as if what happened in Catalonia was not responsible for the decisions of the Government of Spain or for the absence of decisions of the Government of Spain. The Catalan case, in short, was intended to resolve itself with asphyxiating legalism also here, which demonstrates how some parties only have as receivers excluding the imposition of the law. A receiver that for some only includes courts and police; a receiver that the 155 parties imposed to block and follow with immobilism that slows the progress. And we already know or we already know that the nationalist right in Spain is pressing and tensioning to continue limiting democracy and slashing laws. We are already aware that this centralist right flushes and frightens the rest of political parties, but it is time for some to show courage and courage as well. And, already, knowing all this, also, that sovereignism builds strategies that make us stronger, that do not lead us to more defeats or intensify the yearnings of freedom and change that exist in Catalonia and that are yearnings of freedom and change that are plural and that are diverse. Sovereignism is a reality of large social and political majorities, concrete with proposals that make progress in the progress of our people or will not be. Sovereignism or they understand that this is about building and not symbolic proclamations, that this is about making the country move forward or it will not be winning. For us, therefore, this committee must not only be used to investigate the recent past, not only to investigate the imposition of 155 and the evils caused to our institutions, which are of all Catalans and of all Catalans, but also to open a new era; a new era to take steps towards allowing us to seek political solutions to people's demands, to find the paths of the debate and political agreements. It is time, among all of us, to analyze what has happened to open up a time when the political debate and not the legal debates follow the pale of the actions that are being carried out in this Parliament. It's time for politics, it's time for solutions to the challenges ahead, when today's society comes to us, but so will tomorrow. This commission also has to be used to build a new future; it has to be used because we learn from mistakes like the country, so that we never fall back into it again. Because we also agree that when we are stronger than the great consensus, we share among all the political forces in this hemisphere; when we come together on concrete proposals, from large and plural majorities to the society we want to represent and to which we have the duty to serve. Because we propose, among all of us, that this country can no longer afford more defeats, and that it should start winning. And we commit ourselves, why not, to embark on the construction of a country that is definitely worth living, and that any one not precisely for this, in this sense, always, from then on, to move forward. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.112.0	Thank you, Mrs. Alamany. To finish, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.113.0	Thank you very much, President. To be of the centralist right, I don't see the frightened mass, I see it very briefly, Mrs. Alamany. It is the second occasion we have in this mandate to talk about the application of Article 155. I also had the opportunity to be the representative of my political party to talk about the issue and we made it about a series of data proving, above all by setting the paradigmatic example of the deadline for payment of providers – talking about pharmaceuticals and other services – that, in reality, with the same data as in the same Generality, what I was demonstrating was that the Catalonian Government had worked better in the 155-month implementation six-month period than in the previous years. That is to say, beyond the legitimate feelings that everyone can have, the fact is that Article 155 gave a certain degree of stability to the Catalan economy and it was a half-year time of correct administration as a public service provider. And that, hand to hand, is absolutely indisputable. In fact, you never talk about data. They're just talking about cessations, which obviously didn't please them, or humiliation, [[remorse of the voice]] that it is a very liquid argument to be able to compare with objective data. Who is then the object of the creation of this commission of inquiry? Rounding, rounding and rounding, which is the history of Catalan nationalism; rounding, rounding and rounding without assuming the consequences of proper acts. For three years– three years– various political formations of this chamber we were practically remembering the law every day, not our personal opinions, but the law. Let us recall that a unilateral declaration of independence will inevitably lead to the intervention of the autonomous community. It wasn't our personal opinion, it was the one who gave the law. Let us remember, for three years, that the unilateral way bylaws also unfailingly severe criminal consequences for its drivers. It wasn't our personal opinion, it was the one who gave the law. What did you do at the time? He's laughing at us. We don't have the power of repressors and have the courage and dignity to recognize that they knew exactly where they were staying. Because I know. I knew perfectly well. The application of Article 155 was not a low oil, it was not pleasant for anyone. The opinions were diverse. Some people thought – legitimately – that its application was severe mass. Others said that it should have been applied before; there was a very deep current of opinion immediately after the 6th and 7th of September, those plenarys of infamous record. Others say that their application should have been a little deeper, and affect areas such as teaching or public communication media. The truth, and what is more surprising, difficult and even depressing, is that what would you do if we now come back to remember the consequences according to the law of your actions? They'd make fun of us again. And then what would they do, the Sunday? Round, round and round. I refuse to take on a roundabout, complaining, victimistic, powerless Catalonia. We're not like that; here in Catalonia we can do things much better. This commission, its enunciation, reflects to perfection the endogamy in which you are installed, this barrier delirious of an inferiority complex and at once superiority. How is it possible that Mr. Torra's superior race is colonized by some borinots like us? This dramatic contradiction is perfectly reflected in the statement of the proposal. How can we overcome this delusion? - because he's delusional. Perhaps accepting, Mr. Torra, that we are the same, that there are no colonists and colonists, that in reality we are all Catalans. Perhaps accepting that you should pass the page of this menu of masochism in which you live installed, recreating all day in the same. They seem to like him. Perhaps accepting, ultimately and once and for all, that they are only able to recover the progress back to legality and, therefore, back to building folds in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.114.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Next, to indicate the items that are accepted and the text that is put to the vote, you have the word on behalf of the groups proposing Ms Gemma Geis, for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.115.0	Well, good afternoon. Just give thanks, both to the CUP, right? With the ideas that we put forward yesterday, and also to the Commune, to the Elisenda, that..., tell him that in complicated niches in repression we have been, and we feel it very close, and I also hope to be close in discussions of the future, with concrete proposals. We'll always find each other here. In relation to Mr Pedret, I am listening to him, because I believe that he has made proposals, he has made speeches and, therefore, my duty as a Member is to listen to him. And in relation to Kelsen, who said the other day... of course, I didn't have time at the Spokesman's Board, but, of course, both Kelsen and Sieyes also say that power constitutes precisely characterization because it is not linked to any previous constitutional rule. So, yes, that sentence... but we can also relate it to this other one and, therefore, here we could enter into a legal debate. But what I want to say to him is that he listens to her, and I think that what is needed here is... you talk to me about the 6th and 7th days. I believe that the Committee of Inquiry carried out the results of 21 December, in which the citizens of Catalonia voted on what were their policies and what were their political responsibilities. And with the results of the 21st of December, I believe that somehow it was assessed by the citizens, and the answer was an independent majority in the Parliament of Catalonia. And, on the other hand, Mr Pedret, when you referred to when I said that the Spanish Constitution is a constitution of adherence, I related it to October 1. Why? Because the 1st of October, in the end, what we wanted was to democratically choose the future of Catalonia, it was nothing more, but the faculty of decision, than the encouragement that recognize the right to self-determination of the people of Catalonia. And also, I don't know, since we're posed, right? , tell them the Socialist Party's self-criticism. I did six months ago, so I wouldn't have imagined being here today, with the whole process of the new Statute of Autonomy, that I don't want to live it, because I think the Catalan society that voted for the independence parties is at another stage. And finally say to him: we do not have written conclusions and as I said to the principle, that we listened to him, I also told him that we would be loving these conclusions. I, finally, deu_seconds, to the lady of Citizens. You talk about electoral reform, but you see the electoral reforms that Mr. Rivera proposed, surely we would have no representation at the Congress. So, you're really a big fan of electoral reform. [[Greetings.]] And to the lord of the PP, to the Alexander, deputy Fernández, so, well, tell him that I do not consider myself roundabout, I consider myself very distressing for my convictions and for my dignity. And I think that if...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.116.0	You're out of your mind, Mrs. Geis...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.117.0	...you're in my position, I'd say it's not a roundabout, but you also have some very firm convictions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.118.0	Thank you, Mrs. Geis. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Is there a separate motion for a vote? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Are we still voting together? [[Pause.]] Okay. We'll wait a couple of minutes, which we called for a vote. [[Long break.]] When you've just taken possession of your escons, we'll start the vote. In accordance with the text that has been distributed to parliamentary groups, we will vote on the Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a commission of inquiry on the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia, with the incorporation of the transactional emena to the letter submitted to the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia, Republic and Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Cree Constituent, and the emena number 2, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Cree Constituent, adding a new letter g. I understand that all groups have the definite text that goes to vote. Therefore, the vote begins. The motion for a resolution was therefore adopted with 75 votes in favour, 57 votes against and no abstentions. We proceed with the last item of the order of this late day, the tretzè, which is the debate and vote of the Motion for a resolution to create a commission of study of the autonomous work... Tell me, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.119.0	Mr President, in the results that you have proclaimed, I understand that you have added seven votes to the result contained in the panel. Regardless of whether we continue with the reservation we made this morning, and that we will let you know every time the result comes from six votes, I understand that the ones who had delegated their vote are six, and not seven. That's right, isn't it? One more has been computed, yet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.120.0	Mr. Carrizosa. According to information received at the beginning of the session, there are three delegated votes of the Republican Group: Mr Oriol Junqueras, Mr Raül Romeva and Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.121.0	Najat, okay. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.122.0	Okay. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a commission for the study of autonomous work]] [[252-00012/12]] Therefore, we can start the agenda item, which is the debate and vote on a proposal for a resolution to create a commission to study autonomous work. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'd ask them if they want to leave the hemicicle in silence, that we can start this point. As this proposal has been signed for all parliamentary groups and sub-groups, we will do the debate on a single two-minute intervention round for each parliamentary group, and five-minutes for the sub-group, so that we can fix our position. So, in the first place, has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs. Laura Víchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.123.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Today is the first time that measures for Catalan self-employed workers have been discussed in this plenary session. It's the first time, but luckily it won't be the last. It is not going to be the last one because, although my group would have preferred a follow-up committee or raised the level of debate in this Parliament, we have encountered the refusal of the rest of the groups. Everything and so on, today the creation of a commission of study for the autonomous workers of Catalonia will be agreed. I would, however, like to thank the rest of the parliamentary groups who would be happy to introduce our amendments to this request to a proposal which, in my view, was once again an empty gesture... a gesture remains well. But with these contributions we will be able to mark an effective agenda for the Government and we will not again leave the autonomous Catalans forgotten, at least not as long as Citizens can represent them in this chamber. I think it is well known that Citizens have worked with representatives of the self-employed to get improvements in the Congress of Deputies with the first law we present in Congress, nothing more to enter, which was the Law on Urgent Reforms of Self-employment. Also here, in Catalonia, we have worked, side by side, with the entities that represent us. The autonomous, as you all know, deserve a forum in this Parliament where their demands are met and achieved through the broadest political consensus useful for their day-to-day life, in a framework of joint work. They deserve this forum because they alone are more than half a million workers who account for 17_percent of the total number of self-employed workers in all of Spain. In Catalonia, they represent 21_percent of the working population. In addition, more than 20_per_cent of them have employees in charge. Only with these data would it be justified to create this commission, with more, but they deserve, moreover, this forum, because 46_per_cent, almost half of them, are aged between forty and fifty_and_five years, age band that deserves all our utmost attention and care. They deserve this forum, too, for making special mention of autonomous women, the more than 200,000 autonomous women, who, being referent in their businesses, are protagonists in economic recovery and job generation. They know that women-led businesses stay longer in time and have in many cases managed to recover pre-crisis levels. They therefore deserve to work on policies that facilitate entrepreneurship but also the consolidation of self-employment on an equal footing. We will also demand that the resolutions that have been adopted in this Parliament be complied with, such as, for example, the provision of coverage to self-employed persons on temporary leave, whether for sickness, maternity or paternity. Catalan self-employed workers deserve this forum because we believe that the Catalonian administration does not do everything it can for them, and with this committee we will give a boost to this work. Meanwhile, in other administrations, such as, for example, in Congress, we will continue to encourage the subcommission created in Congress to work in parallel on matters in which the Generalitat has no competence. For all this we will propose, constructively, measures that can be carried out in Catalonia, such as, for example, distancing at once the constitution of the Consell Català del Treball Autònom, the body where the autonomous are to feel represented in their relationship with the Administration. This council hangs on a decree of the Government dated 2010 and is still unpunished. Don't tell me it's not curious that with the ease that you have here to create political chiringuitos, this one, which may be one of the few useful we could have, takes eight years without constituting itself, especially because it is part of a decree of the same government. With this, if the Government does not comply with its own decrees, imagine what it does with the opposition's proposals. Well, then, we're not going to tolerate this. And in this committee we are creating today, we are going to demand a timetable of actions that will speed up the Generalitat's specific policies for self-employed workers. From here I encourage Members who are going to be part of this committee to be well breakfastd those days, because there is a lot – a lot – of work to be done. The provision of training for self-employed people needs to be reconsidered: more management training, more languages, more technology, more digitalisation, more access to innovation, more reconciliation measures, support for recruitment, customisation of measures by sectors of activity. And we cannot stop thinking about the disabled population who decide to self-employ themselves. It turns out that a study published by Cermi highlights that the self-employed population with disabilities has a poverty rate that is even lower than that of the general population. So I am already telling you that one of our proposals will be to promote the entrepreneurship of persons with disabilities through comprehensive counselling and support. And above all, to achieve the just budget allocation in items intended for this group, which this Government has been underdoing historically and repeatedly in recent years in its budgets. We needed this forum because this government doesn't have, or is not known, any plans. Moreover, with their latest erratic decisions, and according to an ATA report, only in October they lost an average of forty self-employed jobs a day. We therefore believe that the weight of self-employed workers in the Catalan economy makes it necessary for this Government to add to its list of priorities in economic and social policies. We must work so that they can be a strong and dynamic collective, while improving their working conditions. Therefore, I want to ask you to park, counselor, your delusions of greatness, to land, and to join us, if you want, in improving the quality of life of more than half a million Catalans who ask us to fulfill our obligation, which is to work hard, which is just what they do. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.124.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vílchez. For the Parliamentary Group of the PSC - Unites per Avançar, has the word Mr Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.125.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, President, I want to begin by saying hello to the trade union representatives we have here today at the rostrum: thank you for being here, it is also your part that we will see a little bit more about reality today... And to greet this commission is also at a time when the local workers have good news, which, therefore, makes it possible that we do not see it, right? Without going any further, this week we have seen how the government of Pedro Sánchez wants to promote different actions around the autonomies, like quotes based on real entrances, a demand much demanded and that today we see a little closer. Undoubtedly, adjusting the contribution of the tickets will help to increase the pensions they perceive, and, undoubtedly, it is one of the themes that most concerns the collection. This action adds to the implementation of the plan against labour exploitation, announced several days ago, and which includes fighting the abuse that businesses make of the figure of the false autonomes, or the willingness of the new Government to review the performance for the cessation of activity; you fear all of them important and that this week we have seen a little closer. As you well know, and Mrs Vílchez also mentioned, in Catalonia, as in the rest of the State, the number of people associated with autonomous work has increased considerably in recent years. In fact, in the first five months of this year, the collection has incorporated 8,000 workers on their own, being the third autonomous community where it has grown the most in the late June. Therefore, the potential beneficiaries of this committee, from which we can get out of this committee, have increased once again, day after day, with which it is still more important that we address and seek measures to help them. The autonomies are a collection with little social protection, it is known to all, and it is evident with its performance and also with its thought, as we mentioned earlier. Today, we find a wide variety of activities where the self-employed worker is present, especially in the inn or construction, but in many others, and in the new economy we also see self-employment reflected. This growth and the challenges facing the collection have led to claim the creation of a suitable space, as we propose today, to discuss specific measures for this collection. It is true that before doing this new impulse, I need to review what has been done so far, see if it has been right there, if not, and see what needs to be changed. Only then will we be able to consolidate, regulate and improve measures that mainly affect Catalonia's collectivities. It is obvious, and it would be useless to deny it, that this commission we face from different points of view, as the chamber also represents different points of view on the labor market. Some groups bet to raise the name of autonomes, pushing self-occupation as the out of the crisis; others try to represent the collection exclusively, pretend to stand up as the only referent in this environment and capitalizing on initiatives that are all of them. And I know it's hard to say, but that's read. It is not just because we should be glad that this Parliament has reached broad consensus, from everyone else, to launch a commission like this. It is read because while some fill their mouths with the word "autonomous," they collect one time and another, precariousness, low wages and devaluation of labor rights. And it is more, too, because this proposal, as Members know, was born as the joint initiative of In Comú Pueblo and the PSC. But it is not the object of this committee that there is a medal for these two parliamentary groups, Members of Parliament are well aware of this. The point, and what also honors us as Members, I have already expressed with a tweet a short time ago, is that this Parliament comes together to the conclusion that it wants to create this space for the self-government. And we are glad that this is the case, that there is a broad consensus on this issue, because leading is not a tweet to hear that we are pushing an exclusive, a commission on autonomous work; leading is to reach an agreement of all the political forces in the chamber to bring forward a space to improve the working conditions of an important collection for the country. And in this case, leadership is shared. To some groups, and I trust most of them, we are concerned that the current rise in self-employment is largely a business strategy of outsourcing work, shifting costs to self-employment, which is forced to give up some better working conditions to take on costs themselves. We all know cases where the fact of not finding work ends up obliging ourselves to become autonomous, not as one's own will, not as the first option, but as an obligation, in later term, with which to seek life. This is happening, we all know it, and it would be good to do everything possible to solve it. This committee has only felt if we are able to find the necessary consensus, amplified, putting them black on white, and forcing the government to pull them forward. And I'm sure we agree on some measures, I'm not convinced. Of course we will agree to provide measures to accompany autonomous women, a collection that particularly suffers from inequality and lack of reconciliation. Let us also consider the comparative hardships between self-employed and self-employed workers. It's obvious that there's a comparative weight, and I'm also sure we'll find consensus to reduce those weights. We will agree that the phenomenon of false autonomes, they are already leaving with a bicycle or being in an escort, to fight them, with all possible measures, also from this Parliament. We cannot detract from the collaborative economy of which it is a first-hand exploitation of the principles of the past century. Luckily, courts are also beginning to expose some practice that is more than abusive, and to fine the businesses for which they are doing. I am convinced that we can agree on actions to improve the financing of the autonomes, improve their formation, innovation and, especially, to ensure the generational networking with the projects that have taken place for many years. In short, let us hope that this commission will not be a simple path for some to take a more headline, and that it will serve to improve the working conditions of thousands and thousands of self-employed workers. If that's what it's gonna be, it's gonna be worth the ride. Thank you, President, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.126.0	Thank you, Mr. Gibert. Then, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão, Mrs.Iolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.127.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon to everyone, deputies, deputies and guests. The autonomous work went from representing 15_per_cent of the total working population in 2010, to being 21_per_cent in the current; a change of six points in the labor market that should have immediately opened an alert light in any government. The Catalan labour market is replacing wage-earned jobs for self-employed workers, so that the crisis brings the citizens to self-employment, so that they no longer have a place in the labour market, so that there are companies that force their workers to form themselves as self-employed people. Is that a good greeting? They don't know. The most stable European countries have self-employment taxes around 10_per_cent; one_of_each_workers decides to undertake a project on their own, in a labour market that offers guarantees. This does not seem to be the case of Catalonia. The hardest thing to do is to get rid of worklessness: Catalonia, which they learn from the story of Catalonia's fantasy. Not only has the Generalitat not created in eight years the Catalan council of autonomous work, but it has contributed to making job insecurity the model of Catalonian society. We must assume among all that entrepreneurship policies cannot be policies of lack of protection. There can be no advertising campaigns that combine the challenges and realities of the sector. To take on the autonomous work in its complexity and to overcome the precariousness of the sector one of the central reptes of Catalonia. We want to make this committee the first step towards a broad social dialogue, which allows all parliamentary groups, sector entities, trade unions, to jointly address the country's future. Labour protection policies have been a weakness both in creating quality employment and in reducing social and gender inequality. It is essential that the constitution of study spaces such as this commission or the Català Conseil de Treball Autònom serves to overcome the policies of austerity failures and address without harm a new work model. A social dialogue that, in our opinion, has to address two great challenges in the field of autonomous work: the law fraud, as the company of the PSC has said... We know that in Catalonia we have a problem in some companies, that they force their workers to give themselves from high to high so as not to recognize the labor rights. This is a central problem in some sectors of the Catalan economy: the false autonomes. It's already 30 percent of the nine highs, and it is estimated that there could be sixty thousand false autonomes in Catalonia. A problem that has two dimensions: the companies that externalize from their activities to false cooperatives constituted by autonomies – we have seen, for example, the companies in the country – or the new cooperative economy platforms, which in many cases have broken the open doors of the Administration to deregulate the labour market. There is an urgent need to agree and plan a sustained labour inspection campaign, with the aim of sanctioning businesses that contract autonomously with lawbreakers. These companies do not only incomplete the labor rights in a shameful way: they also represent a fraud in social security. So it's hard for us all to get hurt. The second challenge for the future is to strengthen the sustainability of the sector. Ordering the sector is essential to tackle the challenges of the future. We have to make the work of ourselves a space of opportunity, and not of precariousness. We contemplate, therefore, two great areas of work: the fight against fraud and programs to improve the stability of autonomous work, and its ability to be a stable and quality occupation engine. Making public programs a policy of reinforcement and orderly planning, which allows the Generalitat to effectively influence the sector's stability, not only in the promotion of entrepreneurship. Many times, entrepreneurship has been assumed as a propaganda space because governments justify their inability to generate a decent labour market and that they bulge responsibility both in youth and in hard-working workers. We want to take refuge in this kind of aid. 61 percent of autonomous businesses today do not exceed five years of life. Therefore, stop making entrepreneurs and self-employed people an advertising programme and study together which instruments can be used to boost the competitiveness of self-employed people and improve the quality of the sector. We consider particularly interesting measures in three directions: programmes to address financing problems, access to finance both to consolidate a project to address the problem of the sector's backwardness; programmes to guarantee labour rights, which is the workers' replacement programme in case of low or incapacitation; help to contract in stable or social inclusion... We need to address the occupational risks of the sector's precariousness and instability, in order to agree on ways to deal with it. And lastly, programs of improvement, strengthening dynamics of modernization, of improvement and of formation in the sector. It can analyse training needs both in relation to the sector and the knowledge of business and fiscal attitudes. I would like to consider a third challenge, if I may, of the future for this committee. I have previously referred to the need to address fraud in the sector and the need to strengthen its stability, but I believe that there is a third challenge that is fundamental, that is that the Catalan Council of Autonomous Work is a reality and a branch to boost the state's railway sector. That the council worked, that makes the necessary State Council work for the Autonomous Work, that begin to walk with force, the commission and the council of Catalonia. It also has to assume the iniquitous of a way to begin to rebuild the labor regulations of the State. It is necessary to advance in the protection of self-employment, in its regularization, in its fiscal and contribution measures, which are at the height of the needs of the sector and society. That Catalonia is a space of dialogue and dynamism of the needy of autonomous work in this new stage that is taking place. To the extent that we can advance in the shared diagnosis, in proposals dialogues and work with the main agents of the sector and in deploying from Catalonia in response to the needs of the autonomous work, we can get from here to work building the majority and to ask the Government of the State to address the challenges that need state competences. Cal – and with this I have finished – this committee is a first step towards allowing Catalonia to stand back from austerity and precariousness and to start building among all a more just Catalonia of the future, which places work dignity at the centre of its product model. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.128.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez. Next, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Lord Vidal Aragonese, for a time of five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.129.0	Mr President, if you do not find it inconvenient, too, to intervene in a very quick way from the point of view. First of all, we wanted to thank the three groups in Parliament that presented different proposals and committees – in fact, a joint Socialist Party Group, or Socialists Units, with Catalonia in Comú Pode, and another of the Citizens Group – the ability to do what in the previous vote, or in the previous one, we have not been able to do, that is to reach agreements for a single committee. And also thank them for the ability to deal with content that other groups, or sub-groups, had presented in relation to the question of self-employment. That said, since the CUP - Creed We also want to add a reflection on the autonomous work and the fact that we have a study commission. Obviously, we have a study commission because the competitions that the Catalonian Government has today in relation to autonomous work are practically non-existent. For years we've seen how the social security system of self-employed people or self-employed people is changed and we've been through it, because it's regulated by the Congress and the Spanish Senate, or even now it's more than a decade ago, in 2007, we've seen how the hybrid of self-employed people was generated – actually, more than a hybrid, an oxygen: either it's self-employed or it's dependent, but self-dependent can't be –, and we've been through Catalonia, because obviously, we don't have any skills. Who wanted to be the small contribution that this subgroup made in relation to this commission on self-employment? So the small contribution that we wanted to make is in relation to the figure of the fakes and false autonomes, and we wanted to make this contribution because in this case we do have skills, through the job inspection or by the job inspection that is owned by the Generalitat de Catalunya, in order to act against the fakes and false autonomes. Unfortunately, the reality of the capitalist crisis has caused those who have recognized their employment relationship to have their working conditions degraded, but even those who have not recognized their employment relationship have seen their working conditions even more degraded; in this case they are not working, because they do not recognize them, but in many cases they are remunerative or organizing work. What false autonomies mean is a triple assault. In the first place, he attacked... And obviously, when we talk about fakes and fakes, we're not talking about themselves, but the fraud, that these workers and the workers don't provoke them, but the companies that hire them. The first aggression in relation to the collective bargaining of workers and workers who do have a recognized employment relationship, who see their conditions tightened every time, because, if not, "I have an autonomous or autonomous who will do my job at lower costs. The second pressure, or the second aggression, in relation to the autonomous and the real autonomous. We have today the hemisphere representing the autonomous and autonomous associations, which also see these figures of the false autonomes and the false autonomes at the end generating a whole series of tensions over those and those that are real autonomes. And the third aggression, the third pressure, which refers to the Administration or the State for infra-financing, in the sense that they pay some quotas, or they come to pay – it doesn't always have to be that way – lower social security shares and make a lower contribution than would actually correspond to if they were workers or workers in relation to work. Unfortunately, we see how they pass before our noses of people, workers, and workers, who are flushing bosses– and we have to say this: they flush bosses, fans of transporters with their body– that they do not even recognize the employment relationship and what this means to all the effects; not only as regards working conditions, but also as regards conditions that do not exist that are social security, unless they decide to bear the cost. But this week – and we thought from the CUP – the claim is that it was important – we saw how there was a concrete action by our Labour Inspectorate in relation to a penalty of EUR 1.2 million. For the first time, this force is being carried out; for decades, obviously, the Labour Inspectorate had acted with a relative force on fraudulent figures, but we have now seen, for the first time, that when we wanted to move on to the collaborative economy, that there is no economy or cooperation, so there is an action by our Labour Inspectorate. Therefore, the small contribution that the CUP - Cry Constituent in this commission is in this sense, that we think it has to be combined with what is an act in relation to the autonomous and the real autonomous, which is the centrality of this commission, but also what we can do to end the fraudulent act that supposes the false and the false autonomous.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.130.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. Then there is the word, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party, Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.131.0	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I regret that there is no representative of the Government to listen to the debate we are having on an economic sector which I believe is important, such as the sector of the local authorities, with the importance it has especially in Catalonia. I do not know whether the creation of a study commission, which is what we will approve today and which we agree, certainly as the lesser evil, or the creation of a follow-up commission are the elements that bring solutions to the autonomies. I also don't know if this moment we're talking about the autonomes and the autonomous work in Parliament is the most delicate moment they're going through the autonomes. One, which often, therefore, follows the statistics to see what are the evolutions of the economy, of the labor market and of the economic situation of the country, you see now – we saw it also at its time – that in the last two years, if there is a critical moment that the autonomous workers in this country pass, it is precisely the year 2013, in which there is a loss of approximately eighty-thousand autonomous workers in Catalonia – eighty-thousand. It goes from practically 600,000, the year 2008, to 518,000 of the year 2013. Well, at that time there is a parliamentary group, the People's Party, which says, "Listen, we have to try to fix this and, therefore, we have to try to help all those local people who are staying on the road, who are losing jobs, who are losing opportunities, and therefore we believe that we need to try to take action to try to correct the situation that the local people are experiencing. And at that time – 2013 – we were going to present a proposal for the law of impulse and the promotion of entrepreneurship, precisely because at that time we detected that there were those problems. Surely our mistake was to speak of self-government; if we have spoken of independents, we may have had more luck, but as they were self-government, so it was not luck and the majority of Parliament's independenceists rejected that initiative, that what I intended was to create better conditions for self-employed workers and that could develop as businesses. Well, it's been a few years; from those eighty-thousand autonomies lost in those years, they've recovered roughly half. It remains, therefore, still work to do, and it has still been resorted to. And we want to have a more positive view than the self-employed. Obviously, there is fraud; obviously, there are companies that force workers to give themselves high to the rule of self-government, and, obviously, this must be pursued. But if we focus the work of a committee of study precisely, only and exclusively, on the persecution of the fraud – I don't say that we don't have to do it, I say that it can't be the only task – we wouldn't be helping anything about what they claim, which is, precisely, helping and trying to boost the autonomous work. Well, in this sense, man, the main features – I think it's important to keep it present, huh? –, the most important features of the set of self-employed workers are that they are great generators of occupation. It is to say, both for self-occupation and for contract, these small businesses, these micro-enterprises generally generate occupation. Account, they do not have a large contribution to economic growth, they do not have a large contribution to GDP. This gives us also an important view of the sector, which is that there is surely a part of little efficiency and little productivity in self-employed workers, that it is that there is a greater contribution to employment and a smaller contribution to economic growth, and that at the time it is what the deputy of Catalonia in Comú is doing, that there are still places of volatile work, that there is a short duration, and that a significant part of these self-employed workers in a few years disappear from the labour market and, therefore, there is no continuity. Therefore, this is one of the elements that we consider important, that needs to be worked on. More things. Autonomous work as self-occupation. On many occasions, and especially during the times when we have experienced a very important crisis situation, there have been many workers who have found themselves in self-employment, in entrepreneurship, precisely, a way out of a certain situation. And, therefore, we believe that this deserves all the recollection by the administrations, in the sense of trying to consolidate these new initiatives. Self-employment also has an innovation potential – it also has an innovation potential. There are many new businesses that are generated from innovations, from entrepreneurs or from self-employed workers. And, in change, they have limitations. Very obvious limitations on the availability of resources, therefore, in funding, and also to be projected internationally. And, therefore, they are elements in which we believe we need to work. To finish. I think it would be worth it if this study committee also talked about how locals can have representation in this Parliament. Until last year's legislature...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.132.0	Vagi ending, Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.133.0	I just... the deputies that we access to this Parliament and that we are self-governing, we can either maintain our condition of self-governing or move on to the general rule.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.134.0	Ahabi, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.135.0	Since the previous legislature we are not allowed to keep us in the autonomous regime. Therefore, it would be fine, too, for these workers who may have representation in this Parliament and are not seen to be hurt. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.136.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, to fix its position, on the part of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr. Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.137.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, workers, parliamentary workers... Before I begin, allow me to take a small plea. I wouldn't be here today, surely, if a person, referring to my municipality, Sant Andreu de la Barca, hadn't left us too soon: in Joan Lladó and Caus. And, in front of his family, I know that today it's important that I mention him in this faristol because this was his home, and if death didn't come too soon, he would surely be occupying this place. [[Some applause.]] Well, I wanted to start by explaining how we got to this point. We find ourselves here from the table a motion for a resolution by Ciutadans to create a commission to follow up on the autonomous work. We find ourselves here from the table a motion for a resolution by the Socialist Party of Catalonia Units with Comú Podemos, to discuss a PR on autonomous work, to create a study commission. Moreover, we have an acquired compromise, which was already coming from the last legislature, where there was already a very important anticipated work, where there was a general consensus of all the groups that were in this chamber, to make a joint resolution proposal in defense of the creation of a study commission for autonomous work. Thanks to one of the entities, which is now accompanying us, the CTAC, which has gathered us all together..., asked us to take this step, to take it forward with this commission and to keep this unit of action, which is so good for the self-government and the self-governments of our country. Because, in the end and in the end, what they need most is that we go folds; what they need most is that we go folds. The autonomes and autonomes of our country, which are now more than 552,000, claim that its Parliament can legislate. Unfortunately, this Parliament cannot do this. The parliament that can do so is the Congress of Deputies, the state legislation is what makes us create a commission in this chamber today. Why is state legislation? Because they're the ones who have the competition. We have an executive competence; of course, we have an executive competence. But we don't have the legislative capacity in this matter. And if we can't legislate we won't be able to go to the mother of all problems, we won't be able to go to the oak of the ore, we won't be able to fulfill the object we really want to fulfill. So, we have work to do. But, in effect, we have work in this chamber, but above all we have work in the other chamber. And when there are groups that have held power for years and panics in Madrid, what they have to do is also look at who their trajectories have been in the Congress of Deputies. And when Mr. Rodriguez appeals to the deficiencies that the autonomes and autonomes have been living in this country, he must also appeal to what his group has done, what the PP has done to solve these problems. And when Mrs. Vílchez does too, she also has to think what is the way she could have used her strength to support Mariano Rajoy's government, Mr. Rajoy. So everyone has to look at themselves, see what we can do and work to do it. And this is the success of this committee, because of two different resolution proposals, which were from three parliamentary groups, we have had the ability to agree. And putting us in agreement means that it's not what one of the groups wants but that we all give in and we all accept. And that's what happened. We also accepted in this motion for a resolution elements that you knew that, we consider that it did not include them but that there are changes. It's because it's important that they follow. And when we draw conclusions from this study committee, we see what is the evolution that we can define and mark for the Government, not only the Generality, but also what are the steps that we can ask the Government of Madrid for, the steps that we can take with those that have legislative capacity, and the area of competence in this is basic and essential. I also wanted to highlight a couple of particular cases and today I would like to read the statements of Vanessa López, which we present here to the Chamber as the guest, who is responsible for the labor department of the CTAC, said: "In Law 32/2010 and to the Royal Decree 1541/2011, concretely, the motius of the situation of cessation of activity does not include, for example, the case of an autonomy that works through mercantile contracts with various customers and that these contracts end. This person cannot believe lost, but obviously is in a situation of cessation of activity and law, even though he is contributing to the performance, does not protect it. That is precisely what we cannot do, and that is what we can do from Madrid, to amend this legislation. You know very well, because it is clear to me, that many of us have found ourselves in our own flesh, or also in our family circle or in our circle of friends, we have many autonomies around us, know very well that the autonomies cannot take a vacation or get sick. Eight of each of your autonomies have said that they have to go to work ill– ill. What happens to an autonomist when he gets sick? So, if we transfer, in economic terms, the 70_per_cent of them who pay a contribution base, a minimum contribution base of 919,80_euros, realize in case they do not vacate to work, they perceive 525_euros, of which the 275_euros that they already have to pay as the quota, are only left with 250_euros to spend the month. Can we solve this from our Parliament? Unfortunately, no, but we're still here. Study committee. Study committee because it is a topic that concerns us and it is a topic that we do, Mr Rodriguez, also very much worries Councillor Chakir El Homrani. And he was very concerned because he was one of the great drivers that this committee is following; he was one of the great drivers that this committee pulled forward and he – I have no doubt – will be one of the great drivers that the Decree 18/2010, where the Catalan Council of Autonomous Work is determined, is a reality. Because yes, we also have to admit, things follow their time, but sometimes this time also runs out, and we think it's time for this time to finally run out. And so we put ourselves to work, put ourselves to work, put ourselves to work with strength, with firmness, with conviction, we will work on it. And listen to me, Mrs. Vílchez, here server is one of those who never dies for the morning, but still there is no lack of energy, there is no lack of gain, there is no lack of effort, there is no lack of will to work for the self and for many other people of our country who know that he is suffering and that, unfortunately, from this Parliament, we do not have enough tools to give them a hand. So we'll find each other, I don't know if you're squeezing or not, but I'm sure with winning, firm, conviction and, let me claim, Laura, I'm sure with a lot – a lot, a lot – work that we haven't squeezed yet. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.138.0	Thank you, Mr. Albert. And, finally, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Lord Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.139.0	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the associations of self-government that accompany us are very late in the day. We must congratulate ourselves on the initiative, which finally brings together the agreement of all the groups of this chamber to create this commission of study of the autonomous work. They see we're worried about something more than self-determination. And, in fact, if we want to have a good state, a republic, it is precisely to have the tools, as the company of the Republic Group now remembers, to have the tools of one state, to be able to work directly in this problem as in many others. We have a government that will be able to continue the task so necessary that it is developed in this matter, but more to wish the councillors to be uncertain, that I hope someone will get them there, remember the injustice and unjustified enterprise of the last councillors who were working from their departments, the Councillor of Treball, Mrs. Pains Bassa, and the Councillor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mr. Josep Rull, who should be working here for the country and not unfairly in a prison. We share the concern that Members of the other groups have expressed about false self-government, about the fraud and, therefore, I agree with what they have expressed about these issues. We will begin by passing on some figures that would place us on the importance of self-employment, both socially and economically: on March 2018, some 3,335,000 social security affiliations have been closed in Catalonia, of which 552,000 are people who work on their own. Assume, therefore, a 16,6_per_cent of the total. Of these, 59_per_cent are physical persons; 18_per_cent – and this is also a question to take into account – members of societies; 14_per_cent members of administrative bodies and 6_per_cent only family collaborators. All these figures must also be object of study and analysis, because it diverts from autonomous cooking things that probably should not be so only for the purpose of depriving the right to life in certain circumstances. In relation to the profile of the autonomes, physical persons, they are mostly men– 65_per_cent; we already have here a problem of inequality already present to our society in many other aspects–, between forty-fifty-four years– these are 46_per_cent–, Spanish nationality, and in the business sector most in a service situation. And by professional status, 80_per_cent does not have employees, and so, half has an old age in the five-year or older business, and 85_per_per_per_per_per_quote for the minimum base. Here we have some first facts to reflect on, given that the half of the autonomous companies have an antiquity lower than five years, which shows a difficulty in consolidating the projects. Also, the fact that most of the autonomies are 40-year-olds is filled with the fact that young people are not on easy access to self-occupation. Circumstances that cause it, of motivation, information or well-facilitated opportunities, must be the object of special attention. Another troubling aspect is the fact that 85_per_cent of people are taking part in the minimum base. This will put us in a social position. If there is no complement to the pensions in your day, which may have originated from the same self-employed, which, notably, in most cases cannot be done, we will have a problem with a potential future of economic precariousness of these self-employed when they arrive at retirement. For what he does to quotes, we have heard from the government a music that, for a time, pleases us – although, obviously, we would like to have our skills to do so – on the setting up of something so logical and present to the countries around us, as it is that the autonomous cooks for his real tickets, that this can be a reality. Let's hope that this time the State completes it. As of March 2018, the conjunction of autonomous affiliation to Catalonia has only increased by 2_per_cent in the next quarter. Above all the work has grown on behalf of others; in change, what is the growth of the autonomous work is practically stagnant: only forty-six more autonomous. These are worrying facts that justify the creation of this commission, giving evidence that self-employment, the creation of micro-entrepreneurs – but ultimately – with the personal effort and sacrifice that this implies, are not attractive to people who are involved in labour and productive activity, who seek employment options with less risk, even though it is at the expense of less personal achievement or satisfaction. The Administration of the Generality of Catalonia has made and is making significant efforts in the promotion of autonomous work through the "Catalonia Emprên" programme, or also the "Consolida't" programme, of the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge. It provides information, advice and guidance services, training programmes, technical follow-up to business consolidation, single business window services, support for access to finance, digital literacy, opportunity advice in the negotiation of new technologies and promotion of the use of these new technologies in business management, as well as business food services, business transfer facilitators, and second-hand opportunities. All this is very, very good, it has to be empowered and equipped as much resources as possible, but it has to be done more and better. The autonomous perceives the Administration, all – all administrations: that of the State, the assembly, the same Generality and not to say European moonlights – as hostile. The locals have a problem, from this point of view – and, therefore, we have a problem like society – but it must also be the subject of special attention by this committee. We have already seen the autonomous figures that mostly work alone, but everything, to all effects is a company, and a company to which are applied all general and sectoral regulations: social contribution, fiscal, environmental, administrative audits, risk prevention, data protection, money laundering, and I am left with one more staple. All regulations are designed for enterprises with a minimum structure, and many of them are designed for large enterprises, but they are complete and fully applied to the self-employed, who have no time or means to do so. I'm not saying that they're inconclusive, quiet, but we do need to know how to find formulas that reconcile the compliment of the regulations with a logical adaptation to the dimensions of each company. We must accompany the autonomous and facilitate their lives, so that they continue to be a source of social dynamism and also of wealth creation. The autonomous feels alone and has the feeling that he has to pay everything and has nothing to do with it. We all know the easy joke – and there's no reference to it – that we've heard all the locals: what a luck it is that we have to be locals, so we don't get sick anymore. So, you know that what we're known to have never thanked us. We have the obligation to make imagination, creativity, the illusion of creating projects and opportunities, to mark up and grow up personally find a way to run. We'll make it easy for ourselves, and we won't lose opportunities for the country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-07-04-1301.140.0	Thank you, Mr. Campdepadrós. The speeches are over, I'm calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] Can we proceed to the vote? Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. Well, given the vote on the proposal to create a commission to study autonomous work, it is approved unanimously. There are 109 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me, since there are no spokespersons who have delegated votes, we can't compute them. Therefore, there are 102 votes in favour, against and abstentions. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning.
