ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.1.0	Good morning. [[Pause.]] Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor, councillor. [[Question to the Government on the circular economy]] [[300-00045/12]] We continue with the order of the day, we repeat the plenary, with the 14th point, which is the question to the Government on the circular economy, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. The honourable Member, Mr Narcis Clara, explains the question. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.2.0	Thank you, President. This question deals with the need to implement the circular economy to our society in order to change the production processes with the aim of reducing the extraction of resources and, as a main consequence, reducing emissions of greenhouse gases. The fact of having a finite amount of material resources – an obvious statement until recently, however, does not take into account, because we were not close enough to the limit of the system – raises problems about the optimization of the use of these resources. The main purpose is to maximize the time taken to serve products, while encouraging their recovery and minimizing the risks of the system. The economic system that has developed to date has been based on the extraction of resources, the production of goods, their distribution to consumers and, finally, when the products arrive at the end of their life cycle they become waste. In simplified terms, and the expression is not mine, it is only formulated as: extreure, produce and lance. In other words, once resources have been used, they will not return to the system, hence the term 'linear economy'. The concept of ‘circular economy' needs to be counterbalanced in the past, assuming that the use replaces consumption. In this new model of economy we also produce products from the design and the first materials needed, are distributed and consumed. Tanmateix, the difference in the linear is that each part of the system can be converted into a cycle, giving the possibility to reverse the sense and turn back. In this way we appear processes: redistribution, remanufacturing, reuse, decomposition of the product into components for its recycling or extension of the life cycle of the product. This change in the production system could accelerate economic growth by making new professions appear: of servants, reformers, fish collection, logistics or recycling, all of them dependent on knowledge-based educational policies – a priority of the Government of the Generality. In fact, Catalonia has already introduced the circular economy into its basic legislation. In the Climate Change Law, approved by the Parliament of Catalonia in July 2017, it is proclaimed that the measures adopted in the field of waste must be directed, among other objectives, to the substitution of raw materials for by-products or materials resulting from the valorization of waste in order to promote the creation of a circular economy. We mean the circular economy that promotes resource efficiency to achieve a high level of sustainability by means of the eco-design, prevention and minimization of waste generation, reuse, repair, remanufacturing and recycling of materials and products, in front of the use of raw materials. In this point, in what global context do we find ourselves? During the past decade, an international benchmark has been established to advance towards an economic model based on the green and circular economy, which generates prosperity and distributes it fairly thinking about the quality of life of present and future generations and responsive to the preservation of the planet. Various international organization documents defend the need to advance a model based on the green and circular economy. To cite just a few examples, the Green Economy report, published for the United Nations Environment Programme, and the Towards Green Growth strategy, of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. These strategies are connected to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adapted to 2015 for the United Nations Assembly, which includes the objectives for sustainable development that all countries have to look forward to facing the world's main challenges at the time of 2030. They are specifically addressed in the twelve objective, but also in a good part of the rest of the objectives. In the European sphere the principles of the circular economy have also become a priority of the European Union. The 2015 circular economy package includes four ambitious recycling and limitation directives in the use of deposits. A number of policy documents have demonstrated a strong commitment to moving towards a low carbon and circular economy. In this sense, the first strategy of the European Union for plastic in the circular economy, presented in the framework of the package, has been published, as well as the proposal for a directive by the European Commission on the plastics of a sun – currently pending approval – which aims to reduce the quantity of plastic of a sun by prohibiting a part of these articles, reducing its use and replacing them with cleaner alternatives. These regulations should give a response to the fact that, according to data from PlasticsEurope and Eurostat, every year Europeans generate 25_million_tons of plastic waste but only 30_per_cent is recycled. If we take into account that 2030 provides for a global population of some 8,500_million individuals that will generate an increase in global energy demand of 36_per_cent and 40_per_cent of water, we conclude that it is necessary to be aware of this increase in resource spending and to take appropriate action. According to various studies, in a circular context, the following positive effects would be produced. U, the European gross domestic product would increase by 11_per_cent by 2030 and up to 27_per_cent by 2050. Thus, even applying sustainable, ambitious policies, in the management of resources to the European Union, potential estimates of more than EUR 630,000_million per year would be obtained. Two, carbon dioxide emissions would be cut to half at 2030 time in line with current levels. Three, the European Union could recycle or reuse 600_million_tons of additional waste annually. Four, the application of the circular economy package would be equivalent to the reduction of 500_million_tonnes of greenhouse gases between 2015 and 2035. And, finally, five, there would be a sustained growth in employment from 2.2 to 4.2 million people employed in the past few years only in the sustainable industry sector, but in addition, it would be possible to create 3 million jobs at the time of 2020. All this teaches us that if we want to preserve our environment, waste management must be at the core of our sustainability policies. We need to empower this stager, and we know that the government is sensitive and working on it. What does the government and the territorial department have to do with it? To achieve the objectives and goals of the 2030 Agenda as a firm commitment of the Government of the Generality but also of all actors, institutions, businesses and citizens. Each organization has to hear and assume its role in this important shared challenge, and the objectives are an extraordinary opportunity to bring out the innovations and business technologies that give response to the main challenges at global level. We are aware that since the first moment the Government of the Generality has assumed its responsibility in the application of the 2030 Agenda to Catalan reality. Thus, during 2017, a first retreat of the instruments available and of the commitments necessary to implement the 2030 Agenda in Catalonia will take place. These work has recently resumed in accordance with the 20/XII motion approved in this Parliament with the aim of revising and updating the commitments. For the direct competitions managed by the Department of Territories and Sustainability, the coordination of five objectives corresponds to it: the sis, on water; the eleven, on towns and villages; the twelve, on consumption and responsible production; the thirteen, on climate action and the fifteen, on extraterrestrial life..., ai! , land. [[Rialles.]] Moreover, the Department of Lands and Sustainability participates in the deployment of eight more objectives: the eleven, on the end of the poor; the thirteen, on health and welfare; the four, on quality education; the set, on net energy; the eight, on decent work and economic growth; the new, on industry, innovation and infrastructure; the fourteen, on underwater life, and the disset, on global alliances. But we must accept that large-scale market transformation, industry and administration will require start-ups, new business models, well-designed and ambitious policies to transform the transition. It must promote the green and circular economy to advance towards a sustainable future of our country as a driving force for competitiveness, innovation, occupation, sustainability and resilience. In this sense, and at all times, I would ask you if you could explain to us, counselor, how the transition to the circular economy is being facilitated by the Government of Catalonia. Before I finish, I would like to thank all the Members, the Members, the Councillors and the Councillor for their assistance in this inquiry. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. The Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.4.0	President, Member of Parliament, Secretary of Environment and Sustainability, in the Department of Territories and Sustainability we have an agenda of actions to develop comprehensively, and we dared to do so with very little extraterrestrial life yet. [[Rialles.]] That said – it was a joke – therefore, thank the honourable Member for his inquiry into the circular economy, because sense of doubt helps to make more and better visible one of the important parts of the policy we develop from the Department of Territories and Sustainability. Actually, it's what we consider the basis of all the policies we develop in the department, huh? The environment and sustainability as the first layer of the set of policies that is developing already from the planning of the territory and urbanism to planning, execution and management of infrastructure up to planning and management of mobility; the environment and sustainability as a whole. And we're doing this with sustainable development goals like great strategy, you've been thinking about them on more than one occasion, and with instruments that we're also developing under the guise of these great global concepts that we like to fit our policy, like the new urban agenda or all that you've ever thought about... and that I'm going to be in circular economy now. Catalonia has been working for a long time – a long time ago – promoting and developing ambitious policies in sustainability and economy, and the circular economy is one of them. The stake for the circular economy has been strong and determined for years, it does not come from this legislature, because we are convinced that, in the first place, it is an engine, a good engine for the transition to a new model of economic growth, sustainable and inclusive that it also improves, for restructuring, competitiveness, generating occupation and reducing environmental risks. Second, because the circular economy is innovation. We need to figure out how we apply these new concepts and, therefore, through innovation it also helps us to improve as society, as the economic ecosystem and can also help us to internationalize our economy and, therefore, to advance our society. And, third place, because it's future. It's present, but it's also future. It responds to global challenges, increases resource efficiency and repeats, which is very important, reduces dependence on external sources. In this sense, at the length of the past few years, we have developed various tools such as, for example, the Green and Circular Economy Impulse Strategy in Catalonia to be able to have a full route in 2030 and which will be updated, we plan to update it by the year 2019. Other strategies in the circular economy have been the General Programme for the Prevention and Management of Residues and Resources of Catalonia, which we call the Precat20, and also the Catalan Ecodisseny Strategy. Thus, since the Department of Lands and Sustainability, it has worked closely with the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge in the preparation of the National Pact for Industry, in particular for what it does in line 6. Eix 6, precisely, speaks of sustainability and circular economy. It is worth saying that this axis, the Eix 6, of the National Pact for Industry, counts with eleven actions, grouped in various lines, that previews a presupposition of 150_millions of euros until 2020 and that they are mobilised, through this Eix 6, some 350_millions of other administrations, and also of the private sector. And why can they hear, because they see how it happened, how these strategies have been implemented, I'll give you some examples of the instruments we've been developing. We have set aside the Observers of the Circular Economy, which we call "Caltalumya Circular". We have named it so with a simplification of the concept, because it is well understood that what we intend with this observer is to provide knowledge and information, to give visibility to the efforts that are taking place from different areas of action, both public and private. It is very important to include all the efforts that, in fact, but also, therefore, driven by the creation of conditions that the private sector has been carrying out since the Administration, and, to be sure, this observer also contributes to positioning Catalonia internationally in this matter. The observer has forty-five incorporated initiatives, participates in various departments of the Generality and many economic and social actors of the country. Another tool has to do with the ecodisseny. Since the year 2001 the Department of Territories and Sustainability, through the Agency of Residues of Catalonia, in this case, our instrument to manage the entire policy of residuals, and also the Directorate General of Environmental Quality and Climate Change, has brought to completion of these various fields of activities in the field of ecodissence. One of the initiatives that has been developed is the Recycling Design Award, which we have reorientated to the Ecodisseny Catalonia Award. We want to distinguish, through this prize, entrepreneurs, designers and products that have incorporated these strategies of the circular economy. The ecodisseny helps to prevent the generation of waste, to facilitate its reuse, and, therefore, also to the intercanvi. Also that the products are reused, repaired, and that is consumed, in short, less resources. These companies are more profitable and more competitive. [[The counselor shows a document to the chamber.]] This, for example, is the list of categories and saves from the past year, huh? , categories of products, of products in development, of strategy, and also of young design, incorporating, therefore, here, a whole strategy of going introducing the concepts of the design referring to the circular economy, from which the stages of business entrepreneurship take place. I would also like to point out that we have promoted subsidy lines, on behalf of the Agency of Residus, to stimulate the circular economy. We have financed 117 projects, thanks to an economic endowment of 2,8_million euros. We have also called for an innovation voucher for small and medium-sized enterprises in this case, where there has been a category of circular economy. Between 2015 and 2017 47 aid was granted, in this case, for an import of EUR 140,000. Therefore, this effort to integrate the circular economy into the different subsidy lines can assume, it has to be an important support to Catalonian companies, especially the peppers, because they incorporate these concepts of the circular economy in which its design and production and distribution is its production. We're still with the matching side of the economic instruments. We want to underline that the Catalan Institute of Finance, the instrument we have to finance strategic initiatives, has promoted a new line of loans, called « ICF EcoVerda, for companies and public and private entities, precisely to finance green and circular economy projects. The import of loans varies between EUR 1 million and EUR 2_million for private enterprises and entities, and between EUR 2_million and EUR 10_million for public authorities. And in both cases it is possible to finance the cent_per_cent of the project. Therefore, also, again, a good instrument to boost everything that makes reference to the circular economy. And if we have talked about concrete initiatives and also grant lines, we also need to talk about legislation, which is the basis on which we can also push the rest of the policies. The government has promoted the taking advantage of material between companies before it is managed as a residue, through the figure of which we call by-product. It was created in Catalan law by the year 93 and Catalonia assumes the value of about 200,000 tonnes of industrial waste each year, thus replacing raw materials in production processes. You make reference in your initial intervention. A few years ago we created the bag of: By-products ; currently the name « Residu recurs, to use a language more understanding than the circular economy represents. The aim is to maximise, maximise the use of resources derived from productive activities and strengthen pilot projects from which we call industrial symbiosis, as precisely as it has developed in products of various categories in Manresa. We are advancing in new forms of consumption that favor reuse. We're also moving forward on tax issues. We are also making progress on issues such as voluntary environmental qualification and eco-labelling agreements. We are involved in European projects. We're doing a little bit too, because we're close to doing it like the Administration, agitating and advertising, participating in European circular economy summits, participating or feeling a member of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. And I would like to finish this answer to your question with good news: Catalonia has been present very recently, with a government delegation, which is called Circular Economy Hotspot. It was celebrated in Scotland, and we applied to organize the Circular Economy Hotspot in 2020, the year 2020, and we won. We imposed ourselves on the candidatures of Canada [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , Denmark, Taiwan – I finish, President – and Slovenia. And, therefore, our country, Catalonia, will be yours of this important finding, and will show to the rest of participating countries all the initiatives and projects that promote the circular economy, both from the public administration as well as from the private and non-governmental sphere. Therefore, I invite you all to participate in this Circular Economy Hotspot of the year 2020. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about university scholarships]] [[300-00046/12]] We follow, therefore, with the following inquiry. The fifth point is the inquiry on university scholarships, presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The honourable Member Lluís Font explains the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.6.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors and advisors, deputies and deputies, this is an inquiry into the transfer of university scholarships from the ministry to the Generality, a topic that has been chronicled for some time, but it is also an inquiry that deals with another very important question to which I will continue to refer. I would like to live in a country where it was difficult to be independent, not because you ban the law, precisely, but because it proved difficult to argue the advantages of a secession, because the citizens of Catalonia are very satisfied with the status quo, the services they have, the preservation of their rights, administrative efficiency, investments that are carried out according to their expectations, respect for judicial decisions, especially when they are repeated in the same direction. A state, an administration that enhances cultural singularities and respects linguistic diversity. And more attentive to the fact that the Catalan society has a gene, has a very pragmatic phenotype, to look for concrete results. In this context, the independenceists would not be easy, we would have to explain very well the bounds of a project calling for the secession of an exemplary and model state. The truth is that I have believed in a nation of nations, in a plural Spanish, politically, federatively, culturally. Jacques Attali, in a classic book called Europe [[s]] the importance of Europe and of an element to which little attention has sometimes been paid. Says: "The cultural and linguistic diversity of Europe in short terms can be a difficulty, but in medium and long terms it is a characteristic trait that enhances creativity, richness, contrast, adaptability to us scenes, dialect, respect, tolerance, civilization. And it's a flag of that which, in plain sight, could be a problem. So, let's apply it to the Spanish case. I believed that Spanish culture was a culture that also integrated peripheral cultures; a Spanish culture that could be modern, dynamic, efficient, that driven the capdavant regions. The truth is that I have lost faith, and I will tell you: not because there are problems in Spain or there are problems at present – perfection is not of this world, problems are not there – but because those who can solve the problems did not want to do so, those who had the responsibility to pull this State forward, did not have the will to solve the country's old problems. In the background, that saying of Mariano José de Larra, « come back tomorrow, you already went well. The extractive, judicial, official elites, those who could convert Spanish, this Spanish with this tradition, in a modern, inclusive country, where the citizens felt at ease, had no interest in doing so. I believe in the elites, but the republican elites in the French way, those who work for the common interest, for the public good, who have their knowledge and responsibility to make a country pull forward, in the political camp, in the cultural camp, the cultural Mandarins, in the camp of the high would function. Well, I think the Spanish elites have had no interest, nor have they now, in resolving this issue. It seems to me that what I'm saying conveys a certain nostalgia for what might have been and has not been. Maybe so. Anyway, I'd also like to keep a record for the regenerationists, for people who were a referent to me. I was admiring it. I don't know if they know the trajectory of Joaquín Costa, who certainly has a square dedicated to Raval very illustrative, and who I think he would be satisfied that it was precisely this street, we converge from hipsters, progress, hippies, to new ones of various traditions, in harmony. It seems to me to be a street that reflects what Barcelona and Catalonia are today. A regenerationist who thought that Spain could be different, a master, doctor in right, with architecture studies, concerned about many different themes, infrastructure. He was a beacon, a referent, a hope. And why not talk about Francisco Giner de los Ríos, krausisme, the Free Educational Institution. Precisely the mother of Councillor Maragall, Basilisa Mira, was a student, and he possibly would give faith to this spirit of change, of regeneration, of illustration, of modernity that beat in the color of those prohoms that wanted to make Spain a triumphant project, with words of the day, a project of future, integrator, broad, modern, efficient. And why not talk about the great Ortega and Gasset. I, sometimes, did not make a use of it, in favor of my thesis, but now I would like to make a final balance. Invertebrate Spain, he's sure talking about consortia, in relation to the Catalan theme. But we can't stay here. As a good illustration, as a Germanophile, in this book, we reflect on a Spanish woman who has lost her colonies, a Spanish woman who emerges from regionalism, he says: "The nation will only be structured through a State. But a modern state, rationally based, efficient, a state that in the background makes the behavior cease to be the behavior. Behaviour is not to be chronized. It is the efficiency of the State that will achieve the accession of the citizens – he said – to the common project of Spain. It's this Ortega who hasn't looked at the elites these years, they've stayed in the company. The attitude was only circumstantial, hoping that the State would captivate the citizens by offering the services that the citizens need at every moment. To finish and feel a little opportunistic, I remember Ramón Tamames' book, from the year 76, What's Hispania going on? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It is opportunistic because the context is different, but the question is still recurring and needs an answer: what are you doing, Spain? I mean, what's the Spanish project? In any case, we have an alternate project that is not admirable in the Spanish tradition, but it does take into account these regenerationist movements. And now, landing on concrete, you will advise, you will now tell us about this chronic problem of scholarships, resistance to a transfer of university scholarships, failure to comply with sentences. [[remorse of the voice]] – man, they wouldn't pretend to talk about a few minutes of fellowships. [[relays]] It would be a waste of... [[applause]] – from how a different territory needs a treatment that is not uniform because the realities are different. Of all this, she knows a lot about the counselor and she'll talk to us about it all the time. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.8.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Counselors, MPs, MPs, actually, that's what the movie goes about. All right. As you know, we are developing the National Knowledge Society Pact, an area that we intend to involve all university-related agents, research and innovation, which must allow us to evolve in knowledge policies in service to all actors: businesses, research centres, technology centres, universities, territories, people and the rest of agents. Among some of the essential objectives of this pact, we find that we guarantee access to university to everyone, a damaging sense of their economic capacity, and also to the stability of the university system, which passes to guarantee the labor rights of their teachers and the pillars of the search system. From the outset, to clarify a concept that often appears, or a statement that many times appears, and it is that the Catalan students, in the overall enrolment, do not have the highest prices in the State, because, unlike the rest of many of the autonomous communities, Catalonia does not have a single price, but is paid according to income and family heritage, so that the Catalan students of poorer returns pay lower prices than the rest of the State. I'd like to share just a few data for what he does to the number of students at our universities. Graduate students, for which it makes to the public university, foreigners: 9,092; Spaniards: 11,523; Catalans: 127,621. To this total of 148,236 students enrolled in public universities, we do not have to add 19,438 enrollees to the private; 34,579, from enrollees to non-personal education, still making a conjunction of 202,253 students enrolled in our universities. Of these, only 19_per_cent, 19.2_per_cent pays between 80 and 100_per_cent of prices; only 19_per_cent. It is also important to bear in mind that public subsidies on student contributions, i.e., public funding on the cost of studies, is more than 80_percent of the cost of global university services, which means that the university in our country has a volume of public investment, and as is the case, of the highest in Western Europe. This expenditure, which is a matter of aid to the study, should be conceptualized as an investment in knowledge, should be included in the transfer that the State has to make to Catalonia, a reason for which, on November 7, we visited the Minister of Science, Innovation and Universities, Mr. Duque, in order to demand some skills that belong to us, and that is the pending transfer of scholarships and aid to universities. We have placed the minister to carry out the transfer, so that they also rely on the Ministry of Education, pending university scholarships that..., pending since the year 2001, in order to be able to deepen in a policy already own that guarantees the total fairness in access and retention to the university of Catalan students. It's been a long time since the generality had to have the skills in scholarship and study aid. There are three favourable judgements of the Constitutional Court that give us reason. The first, in 2001. The Constitutional Court stated that jurisdiction had been transferred to the Generalitat de Catalunya. The second sentence, 25/2015, the Constitutional Court gave reason to the Generality in competition of mobility and variable amount of scholarships to the university study. The third, the Constitutional Court – third, 95 of 2016 –..., the Constitutional Court makes a warning because, and so says: "Given the time that has elapsed, the maintenance of this transitional and exceptional regime resulting from the delay in the assumption by the autonomous communities of most of the management of the scholarship and study aid system, is difficult to reconcile with the demands of a decentralized state like ours. That is why the film actually goes, Mr. MP. We are talking about measures, scholarships that affect more than 40_percent of students in Catalonia. At the same time, the ministry, in this decree of the year 2012, Decree Ill 14/2012, linked the taxes to the cost of the studies, and at the same time the ministry increased, in a very intense way, the academic requirements to enjoy the scholarship, and from the year 2013-2014 a system of wage scholarship based on income and income – income and income – that decreases the import toll. For example, in Catalonia this meant 10_million euros less. A side effect of this decree has been that the scholarships that the ministry holds and that finance the total enrolment of students cover only the 2011-2012 prices plus a 1_per_cent, which has not even been updated with inflation. Therefore, the State scholarship only covers a 60_percent of the cost of the tuition, having to assume the Catalan university system to the differential to cover the total price of the tuition. In Catalonia, a 16.6_percent of the students rep of the State, a 10.1 of the salary grant imports, and a 12.6 of the total grants they earn. In the case of Catalonia, the biaix originates from not considering that the cost of living in Catalonia is 8.5_per_cent more than that, which should be considered as much at the time of calculating the shield as at the time of determining the amount of aid. This fact has a dissuasive effect on the cost of opportunity at the university. The current grant and aid system is centrally managed and operated for the Spanish State. It aims to establish a system in which the State establishes the necessary mechanisms for the territorial distribution of the corresponding budgetary allocations on the basis of allocation criteria and which makes the corresponding funds available to the Generality, with the aim that the Government of Catalonia will develop the concession and management standards and grant the scholarships in its territory, in accordance with criteria of equity and excellence which we hope will be established in the national pact for the knowledge society. We must make it clear that the current situation is affecting Catalonia from three points of view. In the first place, because the centralized system of university scholarships since the decree of 2012, of the foreign minister Ignacio Wert, has assumed a divergence and treacherously with coherence and priority established for the Government of Catalonia to guarantee the economic equity in the access and continuity of the university studies, as they have carved the right subject to the scholarship by conditions of income, adding to the qualifications, also another variable for obtaining the scholarships. Secondly, because the determination from the state averages of the economic conditions, without weighting the higher cost of living and income per capita of Catalonia, causes, respectively, an underrepresentation of Catalonia in the total percentage of scholarships and variable resources that we receive. In the third place, the compensation to Catalan universities for a clearly lower value, a little more than 60_per_cent, of the price approved per enrollment, when the majority of autonomous communities receive one hundred_per_cent of the prices fixed for the university enrollment. Since 2005-2006, as a result of difficulties in completing the transfer of scholarships and study aid, the Ministry of Education and the Administration of the Generality have subscribed to each agreed academic course of collaboration for the purpose that the Generality assumes management in the convening of scholarships and territorial aid, which may vary each year depending on the policies of promotion approved by the State. For this reason, we need, however, to call on the Catalonian Parliament to demand, as we do from the Government, the Government of the State to transfer definitively to the Government of Catalonia the competence in the matter of scholarships and study aid. This transfer must allow the immediate assumption by the Government of Catalonia of the regulation, summoning, execution, processing, resolution, notification, accreditation, payment, control, verification, inspection of the systems of scholarships and aids to the territorial studies of the applicants, bearing in mind that all the beneficiaries with the domicile of the family in the territory of Catalonia will be included and that the studies leading to the obtaining of a university title are also taking place in Catalonia. Because the transfer will mean that there are no delays in the collection of scholarships. Beyond this point, the generality has also requested that the standard of living scales be adapted, because the cost of living is not the same throughout the territory. Since the Council of Enterprise and Knowledge, we understand that what is required..., this transfer is not only to be able to exercise a competence that corresponds to the Government of Catalonia, but also to be able to give more ease in accessing the university education of the students of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[300-00047/12]] The next question is about the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The honourable Member, Mr Ignacio Martín, explains the question. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Is he coming? All right, hold on. Did you tell him, that's why? Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] We'll wait a few minutes; if not, we'll go to the next point. [[Pause.]] All right. So now, when you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.10.0	Well, first of all, apologize. I was just filling something up and I couldn't get there before; I didn't know it had moved on. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor Artadi. Today I am addressing you from this window to talk about communication means and very concretely about the public communication means of Catalonia, which depend on your department. And I do so a few days after the interview with Mr. Sanchis, the director of TV3, at the head of the opposition, to the leader, of course, of the most voted party in Catalonia; an interview with which Mr. Sanchis succeeded, once more, to agree with everyone with a unanimous view to the fact that he had conducted an interview that was unworthy of public communication media from a democratic country, whether local, autonomous or state. Sanchis already achieved this miracle on one occasion, he did not do so on a monthly basis, when this chamber rejected him almost unanimously, without counting the government's parties, but agreed with Ciutan until the UPC in which Mr. Sanchis had to abandon his role as TV3 director because he was not the profile indicated with his trajectory, with his clear positions, from the point of view of the Catalan political reality, he was not considered to be a suitable candidate for directing public television. From this point of view, I believe that Sanchis, the director of TV3, should assume the decision that he took autonomously in this Parliament, that it was to repudiate him and demand his resignation, and the first thing I want to ask the lady counsel is if I do not believe that, in accordance with the principles of truth and neutrality that must govern the performance of the public media in Catalonia, Mr. Sanchis would have to fold immediately and leave his office. On the other hand, I want to recall another structural aspect of our public media, which is the fact that all members of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation have their mandate expired. And, beyond the need to demand the renewal of this organ, I take the opportunity to insist on the need for this Parliament to approve a reform of the Law of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media, in which the appointments of the members of the council are made by strictly criteria of professional merit and trajectory and that the appointments require reinforced majorities. Certainly, the problems of TV3 that some of us denounce and that I am here denouncing from this farostol, doing it from the most absolute respect and constructive attitude, I think they don't come from now, but they come from the moon. From the first moment the Pujolism – and after the tripartite – conceived the communication media, the primordial function of which was precisely to extend the use and knowledge of the Catalan language among the people of Catalonia, it conceived, Pujolism, TV3 as a national construction tool, as an instrument for the national construction of Catalonia. The tripartite continued with this spurious use of public television in Catalonia, under the direction of Esquerra Republicana. And what I believe is that, in the end, what they wanted to do was precisely what Josep Pla, the famous Josep Pla, had denounced in his interview with Joaquín Soler Serrano to Televisió Espanyola, when he said that « the Catalans– he said in castella–, « the Catalan is a being who has spent his life being a hundred_per_cent Spanish and who have now told him that it has to be something else. So I think what I was trying to do was tell the Catalans that we were going to be something else; above all, what we weren't going to be was Spanish and not having relationships or cutting with all of our relationships, all of our sentimental bonds with the rest of Spain. With the years, this inn on TV3 stage went on to acquire much less subtle forms, much more bold, much clearer. And it's true that this reality has always been denied, because it's not easy to assume an indignity; it's obvious that promoting and encouraging confrontation between Catalans, losing a part of Catalans, those who have a sense of Spanishness or those who want to continue being part of Spain, it's an indignity, and that's not easy to assume. Therefore, I believe that this is the main reason for which it is denied, when I believe that it is evidence that no one, or anyone who is not irremovably drunk by the nationalist optics, can not fail to see what TV3_has been saying that it is almost always, but above all that it has now become, at this time, a constant rain of misguided information and induccions to interpret reality according to the separatist vision. TV3 has become a television directed for separatists and only for separatists, which systematically slows down and offends non-separatist Catalans and the rest of the Spanish. And it's sad, because I know that there are great professionals on TV3 who complain about this biax so clearly that it has the chain, great professionals who want to do their job correctly, worthy, according to principles of neutrality, a claim of truth, and that, with this direction and with this way of appointing the members of the Council of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media, they can hardly endure a job that fits this will to do things as it should. The Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation's style book says things that actually go totally against what is being done, such as the goal of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation is to "produce and disseminate contents that address the democratic, social and cultural needs of the citizenry, with the vocation to have the maximum acceptance and to be a model of quality and credibility. It does not seem that the current direction of TV3 is very compromised or comfortable with this principle. On the other hand, the style book also says that we refuse to produce and disseminate content that violates existing legislation or contradicts the principles collected in this book. It is obvious that when we talk about spreading content that does not violate or tempt against legality, I believe that the lady, the eternal president of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, Mrs. Núria Llorach, accurately charged for the advertising campaign in the public communication media for October 1, often comfortable with this principle that prevents the media of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation from manifesting or disseminating content outside the legal framework..., I do not think that it felt comfortable. This book of style says many things that have a lot of interest and that would really be warm that both the director of TV3 and that of Catalonia Radio have a lot of presents. This compromise, however, has always been very partial and, in any case, very weak. It may be recalled, for example, that in the telenews of October 8th of the last year TV3 tried in a barrore way to denigrate the demonstration that had called Catalan Civil Society, a demonstration that claimed up to 1_million citizens of Catalonia, trying to link it with extreme right-wing parties like La Falange or Platform for Catalonia. To me, from the point of view of a city of Catalonia, it seemed to me of enormous indignity. I was at that demonstration that day, a demonstration in which there were Catalan senyers, Spanish constitutional flags, people, of course, happy families who went there to celebrate one day, and I think our public media don't have a right – and it's an indignity – to present that demonstration as a demonstration that links with the extreme right. On the other hand, you see from where, we have not seen that TV3 said that the later Diada counted on a representation of the North League or the Flemish ultrathreat; that is why nothing has been said about it. I don't know, Mrs. Artadi, to you what this animation seems to you towards the citizens of Catalonia that we are not separatists. That's why it's supposed to mean living together, Mrs. Artadi. TV3 has become an agitating apparatus and propaganda to the service of the separatist process. You have converted TV3 into teleprocesses or telePuigdemont, a public television that excludes more than half the Catalans, and in this sense you can only see the hearings: it is obvious that constitutional voters do not see TV3, have left, have disconnected from TV3. And it's unfair, because I don't think it makes sense that those citizens of Catalonia who want to consume audiovisual products in Catalan or communication media in the Catalan language let's get past that, in the band of this, so we colloquine all that is the nationalist lighthouse, criteria of confrontation with the rest of Spain, etc. The double measuring bar of TV3, which I have mentioned with the question of demonstrations, was seen on a meridian basis the day when in the program Frequently Asked Questions was interviewed, from a band, the president of the Parliament, Mr Roger Torrent, and the head of the opposition, representing her, the leader of the most voted party in Catalonia, Inés Arrimadas. That day the programme host asked Inés Arrimadas why she had not said a word in Catalan in her speech after the election triumph, which was directly lied to, because Inés Arrimadas made his speech in Catalan as well as in castella; but the demonstration of this double measuring rod was precisely that to the Speaker of Parliament, Mr Torrent, no one asked him, no one asked him why he had made all his speech in Catalan, no one was surprised by this. This has come to me, I think, when we saw the interview, for example, to the Mayor of Medellín, in which the Mayor of Medellín had to ask on various occasions that he repeated the question, because he had problems with simultaneous translation. I honestly believe that in the case of a bilingual society like ours it is an anomaly, it is an aberration of the fact that someone speaking Spanish, one of the two languages of Catalans, must have simultaneous translation in order to be able to follow an interview in our public media. Less to the idea of Spain, less to the coexistence between Catalans, less to all that I want to see with Spain, has been a constant in the programming of TV3 and of Catalonia Radio these years, which has, still, been made worse with things like, for example, the late tendency of TV3 to invite constantly terrorists, both of ETA and of Terra Lliure, to present them as heroes of democracy, to whom TV3 is extracted with much more benevolence than the leader of the opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.11.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.12.0	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm done. I believe that from this point of view, what you want to say, what you want to do to us is a matter of why constitutional voters have permanently disconnected TV3. Only 9_percent of the voters of Ciutadans and 18_percent of the Socialist Party of Catalonia watch TV3 or have TV3 as reference television...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.13.0	Congressman, I remind you that you have five minutes later for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.14.0	...forgive me. And I'm asking you, Counselor, if you don't think it's a huge fact that many citizens of Catalonia have disconnected from public television in Catalonia. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.15.0	Well, good morning, thank you. I think he's got a lot of positive things to do with this question. Surely the first is to take advantage to remember here publicly, in the hemisphere, therefore, to remind everyone, and I do not say this in particular that you have been able to say, but to remember the respect that must be given to professionals of Television of Catalonia, of Catalunya Radio, that deserve the utmost respect, as well as the rest of communication media. I believe that we all agree on the importance of communication media to strengthen democracy, democracy that has already been called into question at a later stage, that they must be able to carry out their task without threats, without coercion, and that yesterday, yesterday, we saw a video as being viral, precisely for a gesture made by a journalist from Catalonia Radio, who had to remove the logo because it meant that it was coming. I believe that all of us – all of us – must make an effort to preserve this area of democracy, this area of control and this area of freedom. I think he also has a positive thing, and I thank him for the whole question, and it is certainly that this question, therefore, also forms part of a dialog that sometimes lacks with some parliamentary groups, when they decide not to go to meetings or dialog spaces. You ask me many questions, which makes me as if Mr. Sanchis worked for me, who does not work for me; in fact, he does not decide or I, his burden. I'm sure tomorrow, that they seem to have session of the Corporation Control Commission, which is the fifth, and every five seems to me to have gone, so you'll be able to ask him a lot of these data. About truthfulness, neutrality, etcetera, now we'll talk about it, and we'll talk about it with data, because surely it's the best way to talk about things. He also referred to the fact that the members of the corporation are expired, and I agree with you, they are expired and are to be renewed; but this is not a job for him to do, it is for the parliamentary groups. Therefore, if we try to preserve a minimum separation of powers, it seems to me to be a job that must be done to you; you, moreover, imagine that you must be working, given that you are the force that has the greatest representation or number of deputies in this Parliament, and I imagine that you must be working. And so I left it to you. He also referred to the law, to a law from which a joint position was already made in the later legislature and which, surely, if this Parliament had not dissolved, would have already been approved. But to tell him that I am very much in favour, I am very much in favour of this law being passed, that I am very much in favour of reinforced majority voting and that it seems to me that there is a consensus to the chamber that should go this way. In fact, I believe that the Audiovisual Media Law Proposal has been published today, signed for all groups. So, nothing to say, nothing to say in this sense. Before you made a few quotes, and I think they really show, don't they? , a little the difference between his way, maybe, of seeing the communication media and, maybe, as I see it. I come from a political tradition that is Catalanism, that is not exclusive to any political party, but many, and that many companies here may share, right? , which participated in the creation of the national radio station of Catalonia, which participated in the construction of the national television station of Catalonia. And you go from a game that sometimes seems like what you want is to lock up these communication media or control them. Ahir I was recovering, from his 2005 foundational manifesto..., therefore, long before the ruling of the Constitution, in fact long before, including, enough before the referendum of the Statute of Autonomy, but, in any case, long before the great demonstrations, the process, the referendum of self-determination, the current situation of repression, and you already in your foundational manifesto de enses com« to have as an immediate purpose the denunciation of the political fiction installed in Catalonia, the increasingly scandalous pedagogy of hatred that spread the media of the Catalan government against all the Spanish. And that's what they say in full tripartite, not 155, but the whole tripartite, the original. Well, they are two quotations that I, looking at me in another way, seem to me to represent a theme to the totality of the text that the Catalonian Parliament approved unanimously in 1983, when it speaks that «the objectives of the corporation are the consolidation and expansion of Catalan language, culture, identity, the international projection of Catalonia, reflected in the diversity of our society; to inform everything that passes to the world from a Catalan optics, giving maximum quality, credibility; to be the engine of our country's industry. We work because every time the media can be better, we fight against the bad arts of the Spanish government when they try, through taxation, to offer communication media, and it seems that some others call for more intervention or closure. But we are talking about data, because data are the ones that give objectivity in the values that we can all do. What do the data tell us? They are examples of professionalism, quality, freedom, etc. The latter – the latter –: therefore TV3 is the leader of the audience, that October TV3 is located, for the quintet of the month, four points above the second chain of audience; that it has been the most seen channel twenty-eight days of the thirty-one of the month of October; that it has led the stream of programs in thirty-one occasions– for that, every one of the days of the month–; that thirteen of the twenty programs most seen in Catalonia are TV3; that the internet has more than three million unique users. Clearly, what I would propose to you, to the whole band of the work to be done with the law, to the whole band of the work that can be done with the corporation, is that you take advantage, you take advantage of TV3 up to so many levels, so, to make political in the positive, you take advantage to explain your project in the positive, instead of being always boycotting, punishing and systematically speaking in denial of what the Catalan Television is. After that there is the interview of the opposition leader, which is the longest interview there has ever been to an opposition leader, but also, at the same time, the least view. Clearly, they can't be saying all day that TV3 is terrible, because then they don't want to listen to their leader. It's a little complicated to hear. What do the data tell us, too? That TV3 is the leader of information quality and plurality; that the information is kept at the forefront of quality reporting with an index of 8.6; that they are leaders of credibility and impartiality; that TV3 is the most valued generalist channel; that TV3's telenews are also leaders in credibility and impartiality. What about the CAC's latest report, which came out a few days ago? That TV3 and Catalunya Radio are the most plural media in information, and interviews and debates, respectively; that TV3's information was the ones that collected the most diversity of political views in the second quarter of 2018. And perhaps the most outstanding result, of which some communication media were also made, is that of all the political forces in Catalonia, the PP, which at that time was immersed in a debate about leadership at the state level, so it is who more time of word added in the diaries; the PP the first, followed by you, by Ciutadans, and after Ciutadans, by the PSC. Clearly, if the will, or ability, of the government or of our political formation was to interfere with this, the data would be clear about some other things. Since the government, we don't decide the contents of the public media, that's what the corporation does. The control of the contents is not done by the government, this is done by the Audiovisual Council. The corporation and council are appointed for the Parliament, and not for the Government. And, as I mentioned before – and it seems to me that you are part of the Corporation Control Commission – that is where you refer questions to both Mrs. Llorach, Mr. Sanchis and Mr. Gordillo, who, since April, when she was appointed, have gone many times. I, as the counselor, will not value programs; I don't do it in public, in the Faristol, but I don't do it in private either. I don't meet with Mr. Sanchis or Mr. Llorach or Mr. Gordillo to tell them how to do the job. And speaking of data, there's also a fact that we're interested in, and it's that every time more people – and that's what the CEO tells us –, every time a larger number of people tria TV3 to find out, and that in the next four years, so, that went up. And that's more than half the polls. Well, if only the independents watch TV3, if more than half of the polls say they report through TV3 and every time there are more people watching TV3 to find out, well, we might be here guessing things about which is the situation of independence in Catalonia. Another of the principles... – Well, now I see that I'm left with two; I continue afterwards, so as not to abuse time. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.16.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, it's the congressman's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.17.0	Yes; ma'am will advise, the first of all, which I think is important – well, it's fundamental for me and for my entire group – our condemnation of any aggression, any media journalist who is mainly, but also TV3's, is absolutely indisputable, there is no point in discussing this. I mean, I know a lot of TV3 journalists... and even though I don't know them; I have a good relationship with them, I'd put my body in front of anyone you're trying to assault a TV3 journalist, that's for sure, from TV3 or Telemadrid, but I can assure you that already, because I know a few of them. And it is clear that our speech, which must be critical with our institutions, especially with our public television... I believe that what cannot be done is to try to coerce or coerce legitimate criticism in a democratic state, of right, like ours, to our institutions, whether public communication means are, is the Government of the Generality, for a supposed aggression on the part of Catalan society, or, as in all societies, people or Americans who do not have the capacity to hear that criticism is legitimate and that does not necessarily lead to aggression, it would only be lacking. And, therefore, our criticism is absolutely indisputable, that goes on and on. What I was trying to do is a critique of the position of a party like ours... – you were talking about our founding manifesto – I say it here, our model, for example, in the linguistic question, has always been a bilingual model, a model that he proposes is that in the public media in Catalonia and in all that is the Catalan public space there is a balanced presence of the catal and the castle. TV3 was born with the first wish to promote and promote, extend the use of catalá, and this is an object that I share, my party shares, and does not discuss in absolute terms. The only thing he's arguing about is access... the ridiculous thing about seeing a TV3 journalist doesn't repeat a question to a guest asking him to answer in the castle, not to ask the question in the castle, and it's an authentic ridiculous. On that day, Mr. Sanchis gave us a surrealistic explanation, not to say delusional – he was an intelligent man, and even fun – and he had the following answer, he said: "No, that day, Mr. Rosel had a bad day. He could have had a bad day, you don't know..., told him at the head of the opposition if he didn't know if he had a bad day. Man, you may have had a bad day that day, but three weeks earlier he had appeared in an interview with an ex-president Puigdemont's samarreta. Home, I, in fact, believe that in a democratic environment, in a modern, liberal society, the fact that a journalist of a media already appears with a samarreta of an expression, of a policy of any kind, seems to me to be a lack of neutrality..., seems to me to be a paradigm of the lack of neutrality. I can't imagine a BBC or Spanish Television journalist appearing, for example, with a Rajoy or Pedro Sánchez samarreta to give an interview to any guest. It seems to me to be an absolutely spooky thing. I do not understand that anyone can defend this as something that can be assumed in public media, of quality, that they intend to defend the principles of neutrality and objectivity and truth that these media must have, more than anything else because what they intend or intend to do is to include the conjunction of Catalans and not to leave behind an important part of Catalans, which I believe is ultimately happening. He said before that the problem is that when many Catalans want to consume communication media in Catalan, in which it is also our language, we need to consume more, in the past, of smuggling almost, all that is the nationalist beacon. I don't have..., to speak Catalan; I don't have..., to defend and cultivate the Catalan language; I don't have to hate the rest of Spain; I don't have to miss the rest of Spanish; I don't have to talk about deep Spain, as was spoken on TV3. Let us follow a little respectful of reality, with the internal plurality of Catalonia, which I believe is one of the great values of our land. From this point of view, Mrs Artadi, my criticism pretended to be constructive but, I insist with what I said, I believe that there are things that we have seen these times on TV3 that are not absorbable, not reasonable in public and quality communication media. There's a lot of episodes we've seen, we've seen a TV3 reporter jump over a civilian guard car literally destroyed by protesters. We've seen things that actually on public television in a democratic country, whether local, autonomous or state, are absolutely..., I think that entrepreneurs and that they don't have any sense. It was before, and it seemed that you were holding me back, that the thing was coming from the moon. Actually, I made him Josep Pla's date, which I think is from the beginning of the '80s, and that's it. What nationalism claims is to tell us the Catalans, who like Josep Pla som– I repeat in Castilà–: « Beings that we have been all our lives a hundred_per_cent Spanish and now pretend to tell us that we are something else, that's what nationalism does. So, this phrase of Pla is, let's say, consecrated itself or consolidated itself in the way of TV3. Certainly, it is very funny and symptomatic that TV3 is radical in an absolute and unpunished way at the time when the nationalist party is looking for their faces and comes to the paroxysm of investing a president of the Generality who says things like Spanish people only know how to steal or that Spanish speakers are good fools in human form. I think it's very symptomatic that this has coincided in time, the radicalization of TV3, with the fact that separatism has fallen on its face. From this point of view, the only thing we want, my group – and I personally – is to have the best public media. A TV3 and a Catalunya Radio that are worthy of the conjunction of the city of Catalonia and do not have to hold all this nationalist baton all day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.18.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.20.0	Member, I see the obligation to remind you of what is the agreement and what is the approach we have made to parliamentary groups with respect to personal disqualifications. [[Widow's remorse. Greetings.]] Quiet, and please. Mr. Deputy and Mr. Members, I see with the obligation to remember that it is what was laid at this meeting, that it is what the Rules say and that it is what the code of conduct says. So I'm calling the congressman right now, because that's how I put him in this meeting, and that's how we agreed. Therefore, they ask them to respect what it is to set up at that meeting. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If you want to raise something, Mr. Carrizosa, after the answer of the inquiry. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no, after the interrogation. I understand that I want to plant anything, now it's the councillor's turn, then I want to plant what I want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.21.0	I..., started to thank him, and that's why it was also my call to the hinterland of my first part of the intervention, the words he made to the hinterland of this second round he had. Therefore, thank him very much, because it is not only the image, but that it is repeated and therefore it is important that with the representativeness of his party we also collaborate together so that these things do not happen. To remind him that – in fact – there are three official languages in Catalonia, that there is also the Orange occidental, which, unfortunately, is very little present at Televisión de Catalunya, at the radio and in public programs. And that we are working precisely with the corporation, with the Department of Culture also in different areas, also with the Department of Education, because there is a more important presence and a recognition of the Arane nationality, also in our country, as it has to be. You used to look like the BBC. Well, the BBC is also known for programs like the Espitting Image that make fun of the royal house; in fact, they showed the queen mother drinking gin all day. Then here we had a similar thing that was the guinyl – I don't remember exactly what the program said – that lasted for a few years, and that now it seems, therefore, that it costs more to make criticism, that it's what you also called it, that we can all have a critical speech. And I agree with you, but making a critical speech is also what programs like Poland do, that they laugh at everything and everyone, that's part of their task; of Poland or any other program that can do this job. Then I think that in this sense we all have to accept the criticisms. And one thing is that you don't like the criticism they're doing and the other thing is moving this and then making arguments saying that what Poland is doing is insulting all the Spanish-speaking people. Miri, it's that I sock Spanish speaking, because my mother tongue is the castle – and that's why I do these barbarisms from time to time, let's just say –, and I don't feel insulted for Poland. Now that sometimes you can't please some of the spelts that Poland does, I can hear that. It's just that I also come out to Poland and sometimes, of course, I see myself and I'm left with a little bit of it, but it's just that I'm left with it, precisely, it's Poland's bondage, because, if I didn't, I wouldn't feel like doing a program of humor and political criticism. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, forward with criticism. Also with the control to be done by the legislature of the executive. Moving on to the work they have to do – again I tell you – to the committee where the work is to be done, because it is not the work of the execution to decide that it is broadcast on TV3. But also with freedom of expression, because we all remember words that we don't understand well – and maybe some day you can clarify – what they say, expressions that Mr. Girauta did when he gave to the lady ex-ministrate Dastis who had certainly allowed images of the State violence, the State violence against peaceful people during the 1st of October. I mean, there's no complaint that there's been violence. It is not complaining that there has been repression and abuse against peaceful citizenship, of which it is complaining is that the world has seen it. Then who heard that? What was he trying to call when he was being told the minister how these images were allowed? Or when the director of TV3 was criticized for asking questions about one interview or another. Look, he also interviewed me that maybe I liked him more or less in President Torra and President Puigdemont, but I didn't come out to criticize him. And I say the same thing that when in his moment... I say the same thing when in his moment he criticized the Mònica Terribas for interviewing President Montilla or President But from one group or another he also criticized. It's that we can't afford it, because if what we want is to do to all of us massatge interviews..., listen to me, so let's make an article in the diary, explain what we want, without interference, and we'll get rid of the charade. The FAQS, another program that is leading, that is a referent, that seems that, in fact, other channels now want to copy and that would be really interesting that this past and that is better the quality of other televisions, too. I understand that what he can't worry about is the samaretes, because it seems to me that the hostess wears one different each week and that she's part of the subject. He referred to the mayor of Medellín. In his moment, he explained that we had technical problems with sound, technical problems with simultaneous translation. I mean, it's already explained in its moment, or at least that's what I know. Miri, you have a responsibility now. They will decide whether or not they enter the body, with the agreements that you have, but they must decide [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] If they want to enter, with communications from the professional committees for their attitude to TV3 or trying to keep the lead; if they want to enter saying that it is closed TV3...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.22.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.23.0	...as others have done, or looking for formulas for better consumption, if they come in saying that the assumption has to be lowered...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.24.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.25.0	...or enter, therefore, looking for a way to help all communication media and the audiovisual sector in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.26.0	Right now. Say'm, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.27.0	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.28.0	Say, say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.29.0	I would like to know what the Member of this group has committed when making the inquiry when he has been notified by the chairman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.30.0	You know perfectly well, Mr Carrizosa, despite the fact that you personally did not attend, but a member of your group, a Member, who are the criteria that we established at the time of setting up as we follow the compliment of the Rules of Procedure and Code of Conduct, and that the line was disqualification or personal insult. I had to warn... at this point it seemed to me that we were just in this situation, in this limit, and I had to warn the deputy. In any case, you know exactly what the agreement is, what the arrangement is, and, above all, what is the responsibility that we all have with everyone, not just with regard to what is in the Rules and the code of conduct, I insist on, but to what we committed all our pleas to in this meeting, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.31.0	Yes, Mr. President. As I know exactly what is in the code of conduct and what agreement was reached, I ask you again, then, what has been the insult...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.32.0	Mr. Carrizosa... – Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.33.0	...or the personal disqualification given by the Member to be notified by the President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.34.0	I'm not going into a debate with you. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres laughed. Widow's remorse.]] I mean, I've already explained what's there. If you consider that at this time, therefore, there has not been a proper management or you consider that it is missing in some of your rights or your prerogatives, you have lives to claim it, but now we will not enter into a debate. We follow the order of the day of the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.35.0	In that case, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.36.0	Mr. Carrizosa, we follow the order of the day of the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.37.0	No, I don't. So what I'm telling you is that I understand that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.38.0	You don't have the word... – you don't have the word, Mr. Carrizosa. [[Widow's remorse.]] You don't have the word – you don't have the word. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] We're still on the order of the day. Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.39.0	I think it's essential for the whole room to know exactly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.40.0	Why ask me the word, Mr. Rodriguez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.41.0	I said that for a point of order. I think it is essential for all Members of this House to know exactly what was the incorrectness of the Member, basically in order to prevent us from running into a few others again. Because we... I myself have not heard any personal insults, which are the limits that were established at the meeting to which you referred. Therefore, I think it is essential to clarify exactly who this error has been, basically to prevent it from being repeated again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.42.0	Mr. Rodriguez, you know perfectly well what the comments have been made... [[strong remorse of the eyes]] You can consult... in any case... in any case, please, shut up. [[Pause.]] In any case, I insist, you know perfectly well... – you were there, at the meeting, Mr Rodriguez – you know perfectly well which criteria we have established. I simply called it in order, because it seemed to me that we were in these limits, they know them perfectly. And what I will not tolerate is that there is a drift in this Ple, and in any other Ple, on the line of which we have planted that it is not possible to pass, Mr. Rodriguez. Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.43.0	In the same vein, for a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.44.0	Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.45.0	I was also present at this meeting, which we enjoyed, and I think it's good that you are directing the sessions of the Parliament. But I didn't listen to a personal disqualification on the part of the deputy of Ciutadans. Sometimes I listened to them..., and I denounced them; but in this case, I am not aware of the words that the deputy of Ciutadans said that they were in contradiction with the understandings that came to pass at that session. And since I don't want you to pass us on tomorrow to someone in my group or any other group, I think I should object to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.46.0	Actually, and in an attempt to objectify, we made this meeting. But in any case, it's up to me to order the debate, and that's what I've decided. We're still on the table. Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.47.0	I don't know if it's allusions, I don't know, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.48.0	No, no... if you don't know, I can't give you the word, sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.49.0	For a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.50.0	Exactly, what's the point?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.51.0	Exactly the same one that the companies that preceded me have commented on. I think it's obvious that when I quote textually, and I've done it with all the rigor and with all the cure, a few words strictly said in an article for Mr. Torra – talking about Spanish people as strippers and saying that the Spanish people speak nonsense in human form – it's not insulting anyone or much less putting in the mouth of anything that you haven't said. It's textual quotes that Mr. Torra said. Nothing more than my intention, to insult. Therefore, what I will understand, and my group cannot tolerate, is that it pretends that this is an insult and is compared to the fact that someone can literally insult you. I didn't insult anyone, I didn't say anything about it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.52.0	In any case – in any case – Mr. Martin Blanco, I warned you and warned you about the conjunct of the chamber: you already know who the limit is and you know who the... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.53.0	It's that I know him! It's precisely because the know-how didn't get over it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.54.0	We're still... it's clear, Mr. Martín Blanco. We're still on the table. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Yes, tell me, Mrs. Marta Ribas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.55.0	For a point of order, for the same thing that has been asked by the other groups. Simply to express on our part the satisfaction that we try to smooth the debates in this chamber. To demand, however, President, a strict application of the agreements that have been made between all the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.56.0	Effectively, a strict application. I am in agreement to apply this rigour and I will apply it whenever it seems to me that the limits that have been laid with this are crossed... with this agreement, we can say so. Mrs. Caula, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.57.0	As a matter of order, President. So, let's face it for our parliamentary group that I think the president called us all the other day in a meeting where everyone could express what he considered for a situation that we all talked about was beginning to be awkward in plenary. I think at that meeting everyone expressed their position and we agreed, with the consensus and there, if we wanted to bring this all. So, I think there was this agreement at the time, and trust...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.58.0	Ms. Caula, ask that if it is for a matter of order, intervene for a matter of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.59.0	Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.60.0	Don't ask him about the rest of the groups, because this isn't a debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.61.0	So just because I think we need to follow a little...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.62.0	We're still on the order of the day. And, in any case, I welcome the fact that everyone in this House has agreed, and I am convinced that they will do everything possible to complete it and that I do not actually have to apply it with the rigour I seem to have to apply an agreement not only, I insist, fruit of what has already been stipulated in the Rules and Code of Conduct of this House, but of what you yourselves agreed to in this meeting. [[Asking the Government about the need to care for health professionals]] [[300-00048/12]] We continue with the question to the Government about the need to take care of the professionals of health, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The question is made by Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.63.0	Okay. Good morning. Thanks, deputies, advisers, deputies and deputies, well, I suppose a politician is always a slave to his words, and especially to his writings. And I don't say that for what just happened – that also, one is also the one that publishes. Because I have a very clear question: will you advise, yesterday you sent this written document to the health workers, think that with this written is disabled the vacancy of the next week? Mirin, in this document, as in so many others, is directed to the meths demonstrating that you are deeply unaware of the health system. They speak again of a primary attention that you do not know. Have you had occasion, counselor, to read the letter that you infirmary sent yesterday late, in response to yours? You were talking about doctors, but I think it's easy to understand that in the health care system, and especially in primary care, there's a great deal of collections that you insist and newly forget. You're still connecting meths with primary care teams. You, with this document, wanted to discredit the vacancy. And if anything's clear, they haven't made it. Cal, always keep the people on the street because you can work? Is that what they need? I mean, they can't do politics if they don't have people on the street, "squeezing? Is that what they have to do? Now that there's a vacancy, now looking for solutions quickly and in any way? Miri, you made a proposal yesterday, you sent a veritable proposal. Let's see if they understand. Yesterday they asked the president, yesterday another councillor spoke about the same subject, today it seems to me that a different councillor will answer me... My question is very clear: have they explained to them, already, councillors, that this was of quality? That goes for quality. Because, look, the one who's talking about the health system, the one you don't know, has three clear pillars, now, three priorities: dignity, credibility and compromise. And you, yesterday with the president, yesterday with the other advisor and with these cards that you are sending, prove not to comply with any of the three criteria. I've already touched, that I've told you that primary care exists far beyond the words you come here and do, because they forget a lot of things. Especially, they are oblivious to many of their workers, who deserve all dignity, too – all. Either primary care is a priority or it's not. And that's proven with words. That's it. [[The orator shows a document to the chamber.]] This paper, which you sent yesterday, has less credibility sent by night than that law also presented here by night. It's exactly the same, and if I answer to Justice, it's still a lot more. This is the credibility of this document: full paper, so they're defining it as health workers. You already... I don't know if you know the North Metropolitan instruction, maybe I'll go into technical details, but they already promised the North Metropolitan many of the questions that are in this mulled paper, in this verinated proposal. And they didn't like them. Therefore, compromises, very clear proposals, and therefore this question is that it is very simple, it is a very clear question. That's right: what do they think they're doing for the health care workers? What do you think you're doing? You have an opportunity that you missed yesterday. Our president said he was worried about us yesterday. Well, in a speech clearly set. In fact, he was asked for anti-corruption measures and it was not able to quote one or so: anti-corruption measure. But when we asked him about the health care system, he would advise, when President Inés Arrimadas asked him about the health care system, for those changes that he announced weeks and weeks ago, the president also replied. Because he already said, "This is not our government's priority. They know why they're there. The theme is that the workers have now become aware of it too. Because it's been many years since we've warned Citadans that you don't convince anyone. We have seen how, insistently, you are taking the hair of the workers. What have you done in the past few years that you were ruling? First of all, deny the reality. This congressman who speaks to you has been in this faristol many times presenting themes like today's, like those that bring the workers to make a break for the next week. And here I've announced it. And you know what Mr. Comin was saying to me? That I wasn't right. Do you know what Mrs Vergés was answering in committee? That you're not sure. The vice president... – who thought today would come to give the answer, since he was the negotiator, but well, today he didn't feel right to come and answer and look at the workers in the face–, you know what he said? That Ciutadans isn't right. And I say to him, "Well. No, if it's not Ciutadans, if I'm carrying the measures the workers are proposing. Now, something's changed now, and there's a gap. We have brought here, in this Parliament, an integral, urgent law, to improve the waiting lists, where we want these professionals that this week are able to put in motion here to help us across all groups, to work for a better health system, so that the workers can come. And you – I don't know if you have to remember – know what you did, don't you, the government? He closed the door to this Parliament again in the debate, because what you do not want is that there is a serious, professional debate here. Look, last year's legislature, this congressman who speaks to you also brought a motion here to make a comprehensive reform of primary care, because that's what it needs. And I already announced last year's legislature, and here we approved it. We managed to pass it across the board. Do you know where you are, this reform of primary care? So, look, with a spot coming up next week, 'cause you guys didn't do anything. The councillor, at that time, devised the Enapisc, which, by the way, beyond the acronyms, did not convince anyone, for which reason, the workers were still asking for changes. Therefore, he will advise, we ask for concrete measures. Miri, Counselor. [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] This is a list of a yesterday's company, yesterday's late. Do you know how many patients have scheduled between sets and eight of late? [[Pause.]] More than 20 patients. Do you think this is dignified? Is that worthy? Because that's what this is about: dignity, credibility and compromise. Do you think you can fix this? That's what this place is about, huh? Miri, nine patients cited at 13.29. Counselor, nine patients! This is unworthy of this worker, and it is much more unworthy of the Catalans who have to suffer from this. Do you think you'll do anything? Do you think you'll do anything? Agendas with fifty-three and sixty-three visits. This happens here in Catalonia. It's just that these doctors have names and surnames. And, if you want, I'll show it to you; I'll tell you why some counselor, before you arrive in this Parliament, sometimes doubted, but then I'll know – if you have the time to deny it – that I keep all the documents, always, that I announce here. Miri, primary care has lost a lot of workers between 2010 and 2017, but even so, 2017 came true, primary care, 46.5_million visits, with a ratio of teachers per inhabitant much lower than the rest of Spain – which is certainly not much better – and much longer than the rest of Europe. So it's clear that it's what it's about. Look, I have concrete questions, which do not resolve this document that you sent to the workers yesterday, concrete proposals: what percentage will you allocate to primary care? That's why I was saying that today the vice president, on a subject like what we have today – five days off – is worthy of coming to this Parliament to explain the numbers, because he brings them to us – I already understand that you can't answer that. With what percentage do they think they have primary care? It's that that's very clear. 25_per_cent, how does the WHO recommend it? Are we getting close to this? And, obviously, I have no time to add them, to make those sums you make, to add rehabilitation with mental salvation, and to impute it all; what are we up to here, huh? Look, why don't Ciutadans be the one who said it– I always prefer to use words from someone who isn't suspected of anything– in this case, Dr. Padrós [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] , is that it is very clear: « Proud words. This is said by the president of the Barcelona Metges College: "Short words, because the teachers are also tired, counselor. Will they do something with management autonomy? What? What? In what way? , beyond the words. You, with this document, are thinking of doing something, because doctors don't have to send patients to emergencies to get into a hospital. That's real change. Professionals demand more time to be able to do the job: this is a nuclear issue; dignity, credibility and compromise, counsel. If you want primary care, if you want a decent health care system, tell the assumption. Counsellor, here I have said quite often – and with this I conclude, Mr President, Members, Members, Members, Councillors – : « Medicine will be human or it will not be medicine. We've got a five-day call. Dignify the health system at once. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.64.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.65.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, Members, Members; first of all, I say that I appear here on behalf of Councillor Alba Vergés, because it is low for motherhood, that it is a fundamental right that we have the women, and that, therefore, the first responsible for setting an example, and, therefore, that the rights are to be supplemented and respected, so it is the fact that Mrs Alba Vergés, at these times, welcomes the right to have time for the care of her child, and, therefore, to exercise a fundamental right that is to exercise motherhood. That's why I'm showing up, and so I'm sure I won't do it with all the contents and the quality that the Health Counselor, but you know, Mr. Deputy, that we're a governing government and that you're willing to rule, as you've always done. Now, another thing is that it's true that you say one thing here, you say another in the street, and when you're in Madrid, that it's where we play the truth masses – you know why, not because we want this government, and other independent governments, but because, although we don't want it, we still feel Spanish, and that's where priority issues are decided in relation to Catalonia's financing – and where we play the truth masses, you're playing a different game and don't even think about the city of Catalonia either in the country, or, basically, in the basic and essential rights of Catalans and Catalans. And this is shown in the premise that you approved with the People's Party. That said, I go to the bottom of the question, which is what affects us. So, when you ask for coherence, dignity, so that's where we look at each other every day in the morning, and we look at each other if that's what we ask the others, ourselves, what we look at each other in the morning, we're so hard to finish. And, therefore, I would ask you for consistency, yes, between what you say here, what you say on the street and what you say when you are in Congress and the Senate, that you do all the contrary of what you preach when you push in this Faristol or when you hold rallies on the street, in Catalonia. Well, you know that our public system of salvation has to give answer to a great many demands, derived – and to us we think that until now or some time ago, a few years ago, we did not have ahead of us – for example, of the aging and chronification of malalties that, long ago, were deadly malalties; and nine demands of a citizen who wants to participate in decisions that affect his salvation. This reality forces us to rethink, to rethink what must be the models of care of our health system with the aim of focusing them on giving response to the needs of people's salvation in an integral, comprehensive and respectful way with their surroundings and with their values. These new models require our professional profiles– you did not talk about our professional profiles–, and above all, you require the guarantee that we have the appropriate number to deploy them with territorial equity, yes, with territorial equity. The Forum of Diàleg Professional, the 19th of September... – and here it was the Conseller Vergés, it was of the last acts that it was able to do –; on the 19th of September it was constituted the Forum of Diàleg Professional with three objectives: to identify the needs of professionals of salvation according to the new care models and the new professional roles; to draw up the territorial map of needs and profiles of professionals of salvation, to fix the lines of work and the elements of change that allow to promote the new policies. In this forum fifty-six institutions and organizations from the field of our country's salvation are grouped together. So like various departments of the Government, because salvation is not only exclusive to the Department of Health, but it affects all departments of our Government. And, therefore, there were professional colleges, scientific societies, universities, unions, health organizations, civic entities, associations. The work of this dialogue forum has advanced with the complicity of the sector's entities. The main challenges highlighted by the Honourable Counsellor, Mrs Vergés, in the press round after the forum were: infirmary, primary care, territories, equitable distribution of professionals, coordination between health planning and university. Therefore, we do care and worry about what goes on in our public health, because we do believe in our public health; we do. You say one thing and make another difference; and the proof is that you vote on this question, when it comes to public health for everyone, public health for everyone. In relation to primary care; and as long as we are concerned and occupied by the Department of Health. From 2010 to 2014, the primary attention lost 17.3_percent of the resources and, therefore, this is an undeniable impact on the staff and organisation of the teams directly affecting the performance of an essential public service. Since the previous legislature, we have reversed the situation, although you understand not to recognize the effort, with the situation we have. Thirteen_million euros, the year 2017; and 13_million euros more enguany for teams working in areas with major socio-economic deprivation. Fight against job insecurity with public offers of employment; 25_of_l'11 oppositions, 1,314 places of family doctors, and 208 pediatricians of primary care. More investments: new CAP in Santa Eulàlia, Hospitallet, new CAP in La Mina, new CUAP in Gràcia. We have already allocated 90 per cent of the resources allocated before the crisis to primary assistance. The department is sensitive to the demands and discomfort of professionals, which is why it places primary assistance at the centre of its political action. He's worried and he's in the department and the government. Main objective: the timing of short, medium and long-term solutions, from complicity, and, obviously, consensus with professional actors and primary assistance entities. They are constantly being found between the direction of the Catalan Institute of Health and the representatives of health professionals and we work with a shared objective. We have come up with proposals with various axes, as it is now appropriate for professional seedlings, to improve contractual stability, management autonomy, to adapt the direction to the care area, to improve personal, work, family reconciliation, to review the pay model. Without going further, this latest – last – government, has approved a measure to improve the retention of talent that is shaped in the public health system. The Department of Health's political commitment with primary assistance will be fulfilled in the proposal for a law of assumptions for the year 2019. Despite the limitations that come to us from the Spanish State, as I pointed out to the beginning of my intervention, the limit of expenditure – that you do not forget, of this –, expense relief, rule of expenditure, underfunding of the health system, and you do not want or do not share it, do you not? We have a long-term strategy, widely shared by the sector, which aims to reorient primary assistance – as I also pointed out in the context of my intervention – to the new needs for salvation and to the new demands of the citizenry. Because, also, in the themes of salvation – in the themes of salvation – and in the themes of sanitation, the social reality, the social reality of the country, and the demands of the citizenry are quite different than those that we had, so, come, give or fifteen years. It is obvious that you do not want to hear this, but, well, look, we will continue to insist. There is a question that also escapes you; the government's goal is not to put up with workers' phone rights. It's a legitimate right, the exercise of the wave. What happens, that many times, therefore, we do not find ourselves at the same point, and, obviously, what we believe is to propose solutions to a concrete situation, and that, therefore, are situations that are concrete at a certain point now, but that, obviously, they require, as I say, solutions at short notice, at medium and long notice, which, for what you see, you do not want to hear. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.66.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's the congressman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.67.0	Well, thanks, again, deputies, deputies, councillors, and now, vice president; I think you're conphony. You came to think of convincing me, when I think that the job I had today was to answer no to my questions because I'm in this faristol doing them..., it's because they're the questions that the health system workers realize to us. It's the questions that make the workers of the health care system seem vague the next week. It's just that that's why. You continue to deny the reality, and when you denied it here at the Ciutadans spokesman, so, look, I could hear it, that it was the typical exercise between the government and the opposition, but now, what we're talking about is the health workers..., that it's not Ciutadans anymore, it's that they're going to put themselves in motion because they have plenty of reasons to do it. Look, today, honestly, I thought the answer would come from someone you were negotiating the assumptions. You already see the counselor, so, well, call her for money. You weren't there when I said that if you wanted to dignify the health system, you'd have to prove the assumptions. So, who's at the negotiation... I told the councilwoman that it was a mistake to have sent a document like yesterday, loaded and badly loaded, because the only thing she does is avoid providing solutions to the health care system. And here we have offered many times to make cross-cutting solutions. You were not there, but here we agreed many things across the health system, which unfortunately you then, as the government, incomplete. Ara, I didn't expect a clear answer. When I saw who came out today to answer from the Government, it was obvious that there was no answer, but not to this Member, that perhaps I do not deserve any answer: it is that there are thousands of health workers who today were waiting for an answer from this Government to decide whether they are going on or not. You had another opportunity. The president lost her yesterday, another counselor lost her yesterday. Unfortunately, you've been missing opportunities. He hasn't answered any questions I've asked. So it's just that I don't have to do them anymore. Now, you always talk about Madrid, huh? This looks like one of the tertules... you, Madrid. Okay. Miri, therefore, if you are so interested in going to Madrid to negotiate, last week you missed another opportunity. You could have attended the Interterritorial Health Council, where there were certainly a lot of important issues, where you certainly left the empty chair for the fourth or fifth time, followed, consecutively, by the empty chair. Don't come down here and ring us up! [[Greetings.]] They're doing the job! You weren't there either, but I offered, if I said so! : listen, if you have to leave the chair empty, because it makes them proud, because they don't want to, because Madrid creates them allergy..., well, no, not allergy, that some allergy doesn't believe them, that they go there and cover. [[Widow's remorse.]] But, well, anyway, if you don't want to go to Madrid, that I went there, that I have no problem, really, that we would negotiate, that we would be there. At least don't leave the catalan empty chair; it's a big mistake. Therefore, don't quote, when you speak of salvation, you fear like this, because very important fears that you always neglect are dealt with. But it's not because I'm saying it from the city, it's the city, it's the workers who will be on the job. He said to him, "It is that you do not have credibility. And they don't have credibility because as soon as there was the same vagueness or the principle of vagueness in the North Metropolitan, they made the same mistake they made yesterday: take out this dumb paper, this paper that doesn't fill with anything. With the difference that health workers get used to, well, swallowing everything. And they said, "Well, let us give a little faith, hope, credibility. And they gave it to him, that's what I'm talking about. And again the lists that I was teaching you before are from the North Metropolitan, because they have offensives, even though you have an empty deal with them. And, I insist, it's that you're talking insistently or reading speeches about primary care and you don't know it. You're ignoring the health care system. You don't talk about care time. I'm teaching you agendas and you don't have a solution. I fully understand that I need to increase the assumptions of all the teams, not just some of them. You need to find incentive plans in hard-to-reach areas where there are no staff. It is a compromise to increase the number of workers who are much more firm than they were yesterday. A compromise to increase and improve the fears to which one can give answer. You quoted some of them: aging, portfolio growth, community, home care, and, of course, the final attention to life. But, Counselor, there are many fears that you will not address, and we will continue to address; you know that from Ciutadans we will return here insistently. We have left today the dignity of the health workers of ambulances, of the drivers, of the social workers... There are many things that are not in yesterday's document. Therefore... One of the spokespersons of Rebel·lió Primary Care said this week: "If we do not get a strong primary care, we run the risk of the totality of Catalan sanitation falling. If you want primary care, if you want a decent health care system, vice president, I'll stick to the assumption. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.68.0	Thank you, Congressman. The answer is the Councillor's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.69.0	Well, Congressman, I don't know why he doesn't like me to answer it, but in any case I seem to have the ability to answer it, even though it's not a matter that he can know in depth, because it's not my responsibility in the government. But in any case, I seem to have given you data that you don't want to take into account. You always teach paper, huh? They push the Faristol and teach paper that many times..., or papers that cannot be contrasted, that form part of adage that I don't know if they are public or private, that form part of the privation of a patient's visit to a doctor and that I don't know if you can display with this tranquility that you display from the Faristol of Parliament. But, in any case, for very concrete things, the Job Stability Guarantee Plan; let's see if that's what you think we're doing on the line, so we're doing something about the needy. Also tell him another thing: you, who always accuse others of speaking on behalf of I don't know who..., today you stand as the bearer of the group of workers of the Catalan public health, and it seems to me that you, authorized to speak on behalf of the group of these people, do not have to be there either. Therefore, it would be good if we were told in the name of whose union he speaks concretely or in the name of whom you are the spokesman for the demands of a certain part of public health. But, in any case, the 2017 Employment Stability Guarantee Plan, a full route that analyses the timing and proposes measures to improve the quality of employment, highlights the creation of the observatories of the quality of employment contract in the public health system and promotes the impulse of policies of stability and reconciliation of work, family and personal. A document that makes a thorough analysis of the work reality of health professionals and that is an objective mark and measures to reduce temporality. The plan, this plan is the result of the dialogue with the main professional actors of the public health system – the first thought to the totality of what you have told us. What are you doing? Initiatives in four areas: job stabilization, conversion of intermediate names to fixed ones, conversion of possible staff to interim staff, improvement of eventual contractation, family and personal work reconciliation... And, therefore, from the ICS, for example, implementation of the plan as of July 2018 – I say because I also explain it all completely –: call the 20_per_cent of the 10,092 approved seats. The clearest example, as previously pointed out, was on November 25: oppositions, 1,343 places of family doctors and 208 places of primary care pediatricians; 216 places have already been awarded. Something good must be going on. Or is it that he's so bad, so bad, that the government doesn't care? So he does things, the government; despite you, we do things. Public entities of the CatSalut : convoked the 26_percent of the 3,550 approved seats; 635 seats have already been awarded. Overall, 851 people have agreed to a fixed contract in the past year. This must be fine, this must be guaranteeing some part of the public toilet service. Entities, organizations and unions recognise and positively value the effort we make as a system to improve the employability of our professionals. The sector says so; the sector says so, which participates actively in order to draw and design which health services we need to have, which public health services we want to have. And, properly– properly, because we see that we continue to do things–, continue to develop the selected processes and assign the places called; deployment of the observer of the quality of employment contract in the public health system; set up, as a permanent body, to monitor the quality of contracts– temporality, reconciliation of personal, work and family life–, and participated for entities that contributed to the plan. Does it seem like a little, a little effort, a lot of work, a willingness to change? And back to the beginning of my intervention: all this to give answer to the new needs that are planted to the Catalan public sanitation. And it's not alone, the government, we don't do it alone, all this: we do it with all the people who work and make the Catalan public sanitation a first-rate sanitation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.70.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the civil and political rights of members of the electoral union of the referendum of October 1, 2017]] [[300-00049/12]] The next question is about the civil and political rights of members of the electoral union of the October 1, 2017 referendum. Presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, asks the deputy Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.71.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Vice-President, Councillors, in the past Ple of this Parliament, the syndic of hardships presented us with his Report on the violation of fundamental rights and public freedoms on the occasion of '1 October and the application of Article 155. In this report, the flagrant injustice of the state prosecutor's indictment writing, which is more than two hundred years in prison for the independent political prisoners, and the abuse of the criminal system since the State Attorney's Office, from all the institutions of the Government of the Spanish State, is reported. That repression was directed against political leaders and social activists who have been imprisoned for more than a year now, but not just against them. The same report related a sequence of actions to which we refer, which we would also like to recall, because we believe that we should continue to remember the repression that has been exercised on this country, on the citizenship of this country on October 1st, in advance of October 1st, October 1st and after October 1st. It may be recalled the fifty-two police actions against electoral colleges, with violence against the citizenry, which ended with a total of more than a thousand wounded, one of whom lost his grip. And in any case, there was this, although some police statements are meant to deny this reality and they are meant to say that the citizens exercise violence. We believe that from that reference, we believe and it is clear that from the reference of '1 October from the Spanish State it entered into a dynamic which has affected all the citizens, against everything that is moved, against those people who had made it possible, who had participated in the reference of '1 October: more than seven hundred mayors and mayors who had signed the decree of support to the reference; people, forty members of the Government, who had been investigated from the Supreme; teachers who explained to the classes what the reference and police repression meant; cities who had carved the careers of the later days, or humorists who did their work, who did their task, which was simply to make a Saturday about the situation. With this we have entered a self-censorship situation, and this is also the worrying element of this situation. Today, however, we want to make them come true, we want to talk about an element too, about people who have also been investigated, who have already been prosecuted at these times, who are the syndics, the electoral syndics, people who represent an academic background, who represent the academic sphere and for whom some have been criticized, have been, let us say, persecuted and some of them face up to these moments two years ago and nine months in prison. It's the element... it's been going through this whole process, I'm not just expecting October 1, but everything, let's just say, ever since the process worked, that the government of the state has dedicated itself to forcing, to extricating to the maximum what was the legal order. Let them justify it by saying that the law – and they believe in its justification – the law takes everything. Dictatorships also have laws, and dictatorships also have laws, and they also have courts of justice that generate judicial sentences and, in any case, are not fair, but in any case, they have all this judicial system. It is worth filling out a manifesto that has been published or will be published in the proper hours, signed for more than one hundred and twenty academics from universities, various Spanish universities – therefore, no one suspected of being independent in this field – in which they criticise the forced interpretation of criminal legislation in the Spanish context, saying..., taking into account or making mention, in the field, let us say, of the accusations of rebellion against Catalan political prisoners. Tell and explain in this manifest that all situations have been forced. And this is the element that we also find in the case of the electoral syndics. Spanish legislation is a force, in this case through a modification of the Law of the Constitutional Court, a modification operated in the year 2015, in which it is established that the Constitutional Court, more than to judge, more than to resolve situations relating to the Constitution, is entrusted to it a new function, a new power, which is the execution of its own resolutions. A model, a model that hasn't been seen anywhere. Judge and part, it's exactly that, it's judge and part: the same judge or the same court that imposes a resolution is the one that ends up executing, skipping all the procedural guarantees that there are. Therefore, from this point of view, we understand that, once again, Spanish legislation has failed the entire system of guarantees. This modification was the object of sanction, it was the object of criticism by the Venice Commission, which established these same criticisms that I explained to them. The independence of the judicial system is altered, because the same organ that made the decision was in charge of adjusting its execution. It is more – and this, let's say, is one of the elements that we see in this case – that we do not know exactly how we would have heard the resolutions of the Constitutional Court being applied, in what way, if there were enough guarantees, if we had given enough rights to the people to whom this situation was necessary. And that's what's been going on, and that's what we've been seeing. And this week we were able to take a clear example with whatsapps running by Mr. Cosido, trying... not trying, but in any case making it clear, clearly, that they could affect the formation of the will of the courts. Therefore, one more time – and it is not the first, and unfortunately we believe it will not be the last – the judicial independence of Spain's justice jumps into the air. Therefore, from this point of view we see that there is no, nor is there any kind of justice. Let's take back the situation in the case of the syndics. The case of the syndics, we understand..., we explained it to them, the Constitutional Court went..., had a system, let's say, unique and express. As soon as it is approved, on the part of this Parliament – and we want to pose clearly, let's say, the emphasis on this element – this act of the electoral syndics, is framed by a law approved for this Parliament. And its performance is realized during the validity of the application of this law, and therefore all its performance is set under this law, the Law of the Referendum. It is what we say, the Constitutional Court acts directly, acts quickly, acts in an express way – as it has not done on other occasions, and on this they have been in a hurry and constancy in doing so –, applying a number of doze_mil_euros enforcements per day to these syndics. In the face of this situation, let's say, the syndics end up putting an end to their actions. But, in any case, it is an imposition that does not guarantee..., that there is no judicial process, that there is no contradictory process in this area, but simply a sanction is required and you must comply because you have failed to complete a resolution of the Constitutional Court. And in no case is it heard, is it gone because they can participate in a process. Anyone – anyone – who is at least right knows that any sanctioning procedure must be a contradictory procedure, the parties must be able to say any question about the imposition of these sanctions. In any case, this system does not establish a system of guarantees of the same appeal, beyond, let's say, the same appeal, which there is, but it is obvious that if the same court that imposes the sanction is the one that has ended up resolving, hardly the right of guarantee..., the right of defence remains guaranteed in this situation. Last month, there was no hype with this administrative sanction, which, in the end, the same Constitutional Court ended up parking, we understand that basically because the element, let's say, of the capacity or the legal strengthening of the whole system was quite obvious that it was ruling for some place... and, therefore, parking what is administrative sanctions and initiate a process, a judicial process against these people. More than trying to calm the situation, not gentlemen, on 25 October, so now it's all just a_month, or it's not yet a_month, the Electoral Union, the members of the Electoral Union, Mr. Jordi Matas, Mr. Tània Verge, Mr. Marc Marsal, Mr. Josep Pagès and Mr. Marta Alsina are prosecuted for a court that asks for two years and nine months of imprisonment for crimes of disobedience and usurpation of public officials, while the crime of malfeasance has been set aside, for which they also come..., or they want to prosecute them. You know what I mean, don't you? , that this situation is completely irregular. We understand that it is the one who is not close, and in any case we believe that what should be done in this case, as in other cases that are going on, in the case of local elected officials, mayors and mayors, we understand that this situation should come to an end, because we will surely see and see in the course of the process that this whole situation had a legal employment and that in any case it was committed completely irregular. For our part, on behalf of the Republican Group, it is the Government's interest to know what opinion the Government has on this repressive policy in this concrete area of the electoral syndicates. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] But also the combination of people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.72.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.73.0	...retaliations in the country's conjunct. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.74.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.75.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Blood... In fact, in the last few days we have seen various news showing us how the constitutional and right state of Spain is entering a deep systemic crisis. To the crisis of the territorial constitution, which has existed since the year 2010, in which, with a judgment of the Constitutional Court, a status validated in reference is modified and, therefore, a status of autonomy applies over a territory that has not been or proposed, its final content, nor ratified – the final content – for its citizenship. Therefore, it modifies this status via a ruling of the Constitutional Court, after a lengthy process of contempt of the same Constitutional Court, of refusals, of vacancies not covered, in which we now see the second part– and, as they always say, the second parts are always worse than the first – now with the same case of the composition of the General Council of the Judiciary. This is why it refers to the territorial constitution. Then, with reference to the separation of powers, this week we saw how the systemic crisis of the Spanish constitutional state was already arriving, for which it refers to the separation of powers, at pornographic levels. That is to say, the whatsapps of the most responsible Popular Party to the Senate boasting that they will have control of the room that will judge political prisoners and that will also judge, that can judge it itself, this PP spokesman to the Senate, in case it is ultimately imputed for its involvement, or presumed involvement, in cases of corruption, it is advantageous to control this room for later. It is an episode more of the degradation of the constitutional system of the Spanish State. And the third element is that, contrary to what they had taught us in law schools, it turns out that the criminal law does not apply as the last resort, to the Spanish State, but rather as the first of the measures. They had taught us right-wing faculties that before the criminal law could be applied there could be administrative sanctions, there could be other types of actions and that, therefore, the application of the Criminal Code was the last measure the State had in front of a few facts, before acts of a city that could be considered against the law. We see that here for what it refers to..., when the unit of Spain is questioned or when the monarchy is questioned as the form of state, it goes backwards. Therefore, the Criminal Code becomes the first ration. And that's what they've done since last September and last October different powers of the State to try to stop a petition, a demand, a political determination of the Catalan society to be able to decide its future in reference. Mayors, mayors, directors and directors investigated for the prosecution, which one year after the great majority of them do not know in what situation it is found. This is another element. That is to say, investigations are constantly being carried out in the area of the prosecution or in the judicial area, and it turns out that those affected do not know, do not know, in which situation it is found, in which situation we find ourselves. Meanwhile, documents from the investigation were leaking on the part of those who supposedly act as the judicial police, especially the Civil Guard and the National Police. An exhibition of defence that we suffer from many citizens and citizens. Mayors and mayors persecuted; activists accused, therefore, of terrorism because they would not pass from public disorder in the worst of cases, if they came to be so; teachers of public school assigned, violated their intimacy, their personal data, publicly identified, assigned by political representatives of some forces present in this Parliament with everything that it has entailed, vilified mediatically and that then it turns out that this ends in nothing else. And now it has reached the turn of the members of the electoral union, chosen according to the law approved for the Parliament of Catalonia, that they have developed their functions during the validity of this law, while it has been in force, before its suspension by the Constitutional Court. And that, as the deputy very well said, they were together with the secretary general of the Vice-Presidentship and the head of the electoral processes of the Department of Vice-Presidentship and Economy and History, the alderman to whom there was Oriol Junqueras, they were the first to debut in this new punitive mode, which are the many coercive measures of the Constitutional Court. A Constitutional Court that has these powers thanks to an entry to a bill that had nothing to do with it, in its passage to the Senate, announced in the middle of the electoral campaign of September 2015 by the deputy of this chamber Xavier García Albiol who was also, let's say, a deputy of the Congress of Deputies. So, one of the functions is changed and a power is given to the referee by the back door, at the last minute and at night, we could say, right? , with parliamentary night. From here they applied a few fines, obviously violating the basic principles of all procedure like this. Obviously – you said – it has to be a contradictory procedure. Here and many pre-emptively, let's say, as fifty years ago, depending on who came to a city in detention a few pre-emptively, so nothing passed. Therefore, criminal law to the advance. And, obviously, attacking people who had been chosen to do a law enforcement function. Therefore, the Government of Catalonia, as it cannot be otherwise, we show our support, solidarity and full complicity with the members of the electoral union who are patenting this disproportionate repression of the citizenry. They are people of the university community, academics and lawyers, politicians and some of them, who have always demonstrated their professional ability and today, therefore, are precisely attacked for this compromise. Our government has been marked by an initiator facing this violation of political and democratic freedoms. This is why we have created the Office of Civil Rights and Policies which aims to fight against violent or denigrating attitudes that tempt against cohesion and coexistence in Catalonia; to follow up on possible violations of these rights; to support people and communities who could not be victims and to work together with the task of bringing different entities and agencies involved in this very purpose to an end. And in the concrete case, in addition, of the members of the electoral union, we showed-there, the Government, all our commitment and solidarity through our maximum representative, the president of Catalonia, who, therefore, through an appearance and a public meeting was reb 'lsal Palau de la Generalitat'. The function of these people was to facilitate civil and political rights in a democratic society, which is political participation. And, therefore, we want to appreciate the democratic compromise of these people, and we stand by them to face charges for crimes that have not been committed and to accompany them so that their rights are protected by the courts, as the unwarranted reaction of the State during the past September when, as I said, they were fined up to 12 thousand euros a day. Therefore, we will continue to work to ensure the civil and political rights of all the citizens, of the union members today unjustly accused and, obviously, of all the citizenship that is patenting to their own flesh this change that has occurred, this criminal right of the enemy that applies against those who do not share the unit of Spain and those who reject the crown as in the form of Government. It looks like you're against the unit of Spain because it's a violation... this indissoluble unit, because it violates the right to self-determination of the people and because it's not built in a democratic way, because it doesn't count on the consent, like at least, of a majority of Catalonia's citizens, it looks like they're looking at it. And the citizens' deputies do it with their heads, because they also put us in the spotlight. They aim and the prosecution, the National Police and the Civil Guard do their job from which they aim. Therefore, we will continue to defend..., Deputy Castel, although you do not like it, we will continue to defend that the states, their unity or their dissolution will be decided by the citizens, that we will not be anchored in a constitution that will now be forty years old and that has become very quickly enveloped. That she's wrapped up and that she's rotted, like the dome of the judiciary. And that is violating the separation of powers, in which a status of autonomy is being demanded that is not what we voted for. Therefore, we know that seals please, but do not pateixin, we will remain determined to continue working civically, democratically and peacefully to achieve these objectives. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.76.0	Mr. Castel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.77.0	For obvious allusions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.78.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.79.0	I'd say two things. First, he was moving his head for something that was reading to the mobile. Disappointment is very bold. But we will always find ourselves at the corner of the law, the norm, the regulation and what is established; never jumping over what is established, which is law throughout the country, and the country is Spanish. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.80.0	All right. We're still on the order of the day... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, right? [[Pause.]] All right. We follow the order of the day, with the motions. I remember yesterday we proposed a change in the order of the motions. [[Marc Sanglas is asking for a word.]] Ah! I wanted to replicate. I'm sorry – I'm sorry. I understand you said no to me, Congressman. So, therefore, it's the return of the deputy's reply. I'm sorry; I understand that with my head I said no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.81.0	All right, thank you, President. It's nice that people who fill in the law aren't skipping the rules. It would be good if we didn't skip police controls at the airport; it would also be good. [[Greetings.]] Anyway, thanking the government's position, we didn't expect less. We must continue, continue, unfortunately, defending the position of our citizens, the position of the people who democratically endorsed our position to make a reference. We want to continue to denounce the persecution that is produced day by day. In these moments, and even as it seemed to be ending, repression in the municipal sphere continues. A few days ago he was quoted as declaring the mayor of Alcarras, as well as, say, participating person or to facilitate the reference of '1 October. And we have seen that this political situation of persecution has focused on many areas, and also in the academic field. Unfortunately, we have many exhibitions, and we're not talking about past exhibitions, but we're talking about purely current exhibitions: Minister Josep Borrell trying to liquidate a congress of Hispanics because it's bad talk about the Spanish empire; therefore, all this action on the part, let's say, of the Spanish government, in its different systems, trying to ban, trying to carve out what is to be seen, has to be the word of the citizenry. We believe that the reference is the point of consent, it is the maximum point of consent of this city. 80 per cent of the people of this country, regardless of which political formation they belong, independentists and unionists, claim that the best way to end or resolve political disputes is through the ballot box; it could not be in any other way. What we've had... we haven't had enough shows, we have enough shows in Quebec, we haven't had enough shows in Scotland. I see that there are a few others who are also concerned another time about going to England and announcing the breach, let's say, of the British empire before the Spanish empire, but in any case they also announce that it is breached. Therefore, let us say, welcome, welcome to these recognitions. In any case, we wanted to use – and that is why we also wanted to use this inquiry – to show our solidarity as a parliamentary group, certainly also from other groups, for the recognition of the work of the syndics, of the syndics who are professional, syndics who were part of an electoral union. Let us remember that in any electoral system electoral processes, already referred to or elected, are vetoed by some organ, an electoral board, an electoral union formed by academics, formed by jurists, that in any case its objective, and it is what is intended in this electoral union, is to veto for the impartiality of any electoral process, that the citizens feel..., there is an environment where they can claim their rights, in case they feel violated. Therefore, we understand that this is the area of recognition of this work. We believe that the consensus... we insist on the consensus on the referendum. Another consensus on which the country has a great consensus, a great opinion, is against repression and temporary imprisonment that at these times there are political patenting and social leaders and activists. We think this is the situation that could end all of us. This is a unanimous cry at the level of the citizenry; there are bets on independent and non-independence people, because ultimately what we are playing is civil rights and social rights throughout this repressive element. And by the end, in any case, consensuses are looking for talking, consensuses are looking for and found in a table, consensuses are not found passing buses. We already had a bus show. [[applause]] ..., the year 2006 we already had shows of how buses were passing throughout the Spanish State gathering firm against Catalans, against the State, and now someone, trying to replicate the same formulas, is following buses. So they won't find us on a bus, they won't find us asserting aggressively that they'll find us on the street. We'll be on the street; they won't find us on a bus, but they'll find us in the negotiating tables. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.82.0	Thank you, Congressman. The Vice President's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.83.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, you just mentioned another show of how this power division works in the Spanish State. It turns out, as you very well said, that buses are now passing using the image of people who are in a situation of preventive detention – preventive; therefore, it is in court – in which it is demanded that there be no pardon for them, before there is a sentence. Therefore, we see that some people are already giving in fact – I don't know if they have privileged information – that there will be a sentence and they are giving in fact that someone will offer a pardon or that the affected themselves will bring it to the table. It's more of a show than the dome of the judiciary aligns, first, with the unit of Spain, and then with the rights of the citizens. And that's not what I'm saying: that's what the current President of the General Council of the Judiciary said. September 2017, the opening of the judicial year, and he says: "The last reason of the state of law in Spain is based on its unity; not on the fundamental rights of the citizens, not on the division of powers, not on the value of democracy, no: in such a concept, let us say, half-democratic, meta-legal, as is the unit of Spain, right? He's got nothing to do with the right. The unit of Spain, go, however much they say it is indissoluble, so it turns out that no, because these things, the historical processes, obviously overcome what they can say the constitutions. Certainly, we have a tension in Catalonia between two concepts that in a full democracy are very aligned, that is between legality and legitimacy or, let us say it in another way, between powers and authorities. And you can exercise power, the Spanish State has the power, exercises power because it has the coercive capacity, because the different powers of the State have been aligned, from some chambers, legislative chambers, the execution, the judiciary and some organs like the prosecution and the bodies and forces of security, in the defense of the unit of Spain, so they have the power, but in Catalonia they do not have the authority, because there is a very large part of the city of Catalonia that rejects it, which is questionable... If this happened to us in the past, if this happened in an independent Catalonia, I would worry and, therefore, we would start working politically to resolve this. Because our conception of power, our conception of how states are to work, is based on the fact that there is a consent of the citizens, that they give by means of the vote to democracy, to the application of laws. The State has and must hold the monopoly of violence; only it can exercise the State, because it is the only one that can be legitimate. But the condition is that the decisions of the State are taken, the configuration of this State is made in a democratic way. And democracy also incorporates political pluralism, a political pluralism that is persecuted and rejected in the State, in which there is a unique vision, of a way to be Spanish, to feel Spanish. Obviously, what he has done is to set up a very wide highway to which we defend the independence of Catalonia as the form of organization of this country. And we appreciate it, because they've helped us to convince a lot of people. But I believe that really those who regard themselves as the unit of Spain, those who believe – and they do so well legitimately and are not convinced, and they must have their reasons, and I respect them deeply – that the best that there can be, that can pass to Catalonia is that I remain united with Spain to think how they achieve that this is the basis of the consent of the citizenry of Catalonia, not as it is now, that is based on the use of the force of the citizenry of Catalonia. Because the application of 155, the dissolution of this chamber against the majority will of this chamber a year ago, was an expression of the use of force against the democratic will of the citizenry. It was all within a plaza, a plaza that was to end on the 21st of December with a defeat of independence in the ballot boxes and, therefore, that the ballot boxes valid without that which they had decided to apply in 155, against the majority of this Parliament. But it turns out that this company has a vice, that it's free thinking and that each one thinks what he wants, and he held the votes he held. And in these votes a clear majority of independence was attached to this chamber, in the same way that it decided that certain political forces have a certain number of escons, which we respect. So, in the end, then, it's about this. The only way to recapture powers and authorities is democracy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.84.0	Vice President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.85.0	...and, more importantly, they'll be late. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.86.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into fiscal policy]] [[302-00027/12]] We now follow, with the first of the motions, the motion following the question to the Government on fiscal policy, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose the young lady has the word of Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.87.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, vice president, councillor, deputies and deputies. So, the Socialist Group presents this motion on fiscal policy after the inquiry that we did to the councilman only fifteen days ago. You know that it is true that we are at a time of presuppositions, that in such important presuppositions are expenses, the investment we make in social, educational or infrastructure areas, such as tickets, which is what obviously allows us to invest and spend. And, therefore, the proposal we are making today is about this, about the part of the tickets that seems to be coming back to us, bearing in mind that in the later years we believe that we have not asked for a greater effort from those who hold and hold more. Therefore, our young lady went on this line: how to increase tickets and do it from different points of view. The first is to negotiate with the State, that the groups that are in the Congress of Deputies can negotiate an increase in the deficit objective, that they know the Government of the State is on this line; this would suppose 500_million more euros. It also makes the rule of spending more flexible, which would allow the Government of the Generality to have more space, and we are aware of that. Claim a debt schedule to the State Government; among them, the third additional provision. They know that this is a follow-up that we have always done to the government, to claim to the state these outstanding debts, that they boost more than 7,000_million euros and that we believe, therefore, that it is necessary to schedule it once and for all. But it's also true that we can't hear like the government, the groups that conform to the government, make a statement asking for the return of all these debts, right? This double measuring rod, we didn't just hear it, did we? When you get to work for the return of the payments, you offer them eight years; on the other hand, you ask the State Government to return another €7,000_million. Home, it seems that it is not reasonable; I think it would be better to negotiate a calendar. The third point is the tax fraud. Mirin, I said the other day: you did a study of the year 2014 and the tax gap and tax fraud that is running away is about 800_million euros, especially in estates and assets. It is true, and the Department of Economics has always said, that it has improved and that in the past they have managed to drain 200_million euros of fraud, but we are also in very high figures, around 600_million euros. We thought we could do an important job here. And also the reviews made by the government's compliant groups talk a lot about the state's demand. I would repeat to you what I told the councilman the other day Puignero: they do not oppose the opposition. Here you have a government and you have to respond as you do in the competitions that you have, that there are many. And I'm going to Congress of Deputies to ask the state what they think is wrong. But here we demand that the Catalonia Tax Agency put in more resources, more inspectors, to try to attack this tax gap that you know we have; smaller, bigger, it's the same: if we don't have it, at these times we would have 600_million more euros to spend. So, I think this has to be a little reasonable. Then we go into the share of taxes. Green taxation. We don't understand why they've made a statement to us in this area. They tell us a sentence that you proposed to us in a transaction that they made to us in the month of October. I don't know exactly what changed from October to today, which is November 22. But it is that, moreover, the law that was approved of the climate change has an additional provision that says that a bill must be made on the tax of economic activities that generate gases with winter effects and that must be set aside or come into force in 2019. We're about to finish 2018, it doesn't seem that this bill has entered Parliament or that it can be approved on its own weeks. And that's a provision that's not retrieved by the CT, and it's not suspended. It is to say that you are already too late – too late – to do something that, moreover, is important, which is to attack what affects our environment, our salvation and many other aspects. IRPF. Here you make us some proposals..., these groups that make up the government, some ideas, the truth, without margins, absolutely generic. Listen, in 2016, Vice President Junqueras made a study in his department of income tax modification possibilities for physical persons, and he already said that it was necessary to lower taxes to lower them because Catalonia was the highest, a 12-per-cent to lower them. And he said he'd push them to higher returns, to higher than 100,000 euros, because we were under the Spanish middle. There is a phrase in his study that he said: "Economy says that those who tax over 100,000 euros have a lower tax pressure than the middle of their conjunction. It is to say that the Department of Economy, at that time, agreed to lower the low trams and push the high ones. What happened today, that his mind is generic, without going into detail? There is, not to mention the inheritance tax, that we would find ourselves in the same. Honestly, I don't know what went on from 2016 to here, I don't know what went on from his deal he offered us in October, but they've changed things enough, because they're less valuable, less distressed, and, above all, fewer generators of inputs and of recuperation and of progress and justice in taxes that have weighed heavily on the middle classes and workers, as well as their study of 2016. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.88.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, it is the return, in the first place, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The word "Mr. José María Cano".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.89.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, deputies, deputies, public, good morning. Well, today the PSC presents us with a motion with a series of measures, which we can summarise in general terms in two basic concepts, which would be: spending more and raising taxes to Catalans. I tell the ladies and gentlemen of the PSC that you have ruled in Catalonia and also in the rest of Spain. I say this because, reading your motion and your proposals, it seems that you have just landed in politics and that you would never have had the opportunity to address these issues either in Parliament or in Congress. That is, it is to be thanked that, in their proposal, they make it clear to the media what their project is: they will spend their citizens' taxes on two hands, as if there were no tomorrow. And, in order to increase that expenditure without control, they propose to expand the deficit percentage. In other words, they want to stretch the arm even more than the sleeve, so they want to debt more, if it is possible, to our autonomous community, punishing future generations; an autonomous community that I have to remind you that already part of a public debt of more than 77,000_million_of_euro. And the truth is that I don't know who's going to leave us that money, considering that it's a public debt qualified as a garbage bond and that, right now, everything has to be financed through the Spanish Autonomic Liquidity Fund. In addition, they propose to extend the limits of the spending rule, that is, rather than moderate spending when there is economic growth in order to be able to address the times of weak cows, which would be the typical Keynesian policy, their proposal is to increase it – to increase it – with a blindfold, without ensuring that this new expenditure can continue to be financed in the future. But it is that, moreover, as all those proposals to increase spending are not enough to pay for the big party, to keep so much chiringuito, to pay for A-8's toes, to pay for the mismanagement of the ATLL, of the 9_de_metro line, of Spanair, for example, what does the PSC propose to us? Well, the usual: put your hand in Catalan pockets, raise taxes. Taxes that will continue to endure with their efforts those of the usual, the middle and working class, those who raise the blind of their business every day, with much effort; those who save and leave in inheritance their business or their home to their relatives; in short, those of the usual. Ladies and gentlemen of the SCP, their policies are always based on opening up the tap more and more and more via the way to raise taxes, but they do not worry or deal with putting the plug right in the drain so that that flow is not lost. And the reality is that most of the taxes never reach their destination, a destination that would have to be no other than to finance our welfare state. Look, in this motion, they do not make a single mention of the essential reform of the Administration, nor a single mention of ending the doubles, nor a single mention of removing the fat left over in the Administration and strengthening the muscle, nor a single mention of reducing the chiringuits, nor a single mention of reducing the large number of fingered charges. And all those reflections would always have to be prior to putting their hands in the pockets of Catalans. It is essential to make the reforms that the Administration needs. They cannot continue to waste the public resources that are everyone's. Because if you don't face that reform, you face the future, if you lower the collection, you'll have to cut back massively. And take budgetary stability seriously. That is one of the elements that allows us to be within the European Union, which allows us to finance debt and do it at low cost. And follow the example: Citizens have achieved in all their agreements quite the opposite of what you propose. You've managed, Citizens, to lower taxes to the middle and working class. And it's just that Catalans can't take any more tax hikes. In the inquiry of the last plenary session, Mr. Counsellor d'Economia, Mr. Aragonès – who is here today, with us – and you were discussing which of the two would be able to raise taxes more, and Mr. Counsellor reminded you that Catalonia has the dubious honor to find itself at the top of the territories with the most fiscal pressure in all of Spain. And it is that Catalonia is the autonomous community where the middle and working class pays more IRPF and that is not discussed in their motion. We have tabled a bill to lower the IRPF to the middle and working class, and you have tabled an amendment to the whole. I would tell you to rectify and withdraw that amendment, because you are in time, and allow the presentation and debate to be made to address that reform of the IRPF. And, above all, do not focus on spending more and raising taxes. Focus on spending better, on implementing good public policies. As far as the amendments are concerned, we regret that they did not accept any of our amendments, which we understood to be amendments which sought to improve the proposal. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.90.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. There's a word from Mr. David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.91.0	Okay. On inequality and distribution of wealth is the debate that is raised here today and I believe that it will also be one of the central debates that we take up, in this case, in the negotiation of assumptions. I want to start with a quote from Andreu Missé, who recently published in El País: "Now we see with amazement how in Spain the winners of the crisis resist a fair contribution for the benefits obtained. Mirin, it is clear that you – and I speak in the case of the lords of Ciutadans – draw a country that does not exist. Because I will give them a given: 10 percent of the population with more resources has gone from accumulating 44 percent of the net wealth in 2008 to 55 percent in 2014. That's to say, listen, if the crisis has served that, if there are winners and losers of the crisis. I, therefore, don't know what proposals they're making, or I know what they're making, and now I'm talking about it. Miri, Catalunya I think it needs a real tax reform. Why, of course, do you guys have a debate, and sometimes we do all the groups, from, uh, no? A little while ago, in this chamber, there were few minutes, Mr. Jorge Soler was asking for more resources for public health – I agree – more primary health care – I agree – and 25_percent of the primary health care requirement – I agree. But, listen, you're specialists in Citizen Theorem, which I've already defined, which I've already explained more than once, which you say is possible to snoop and play with a pallet at the same time. And that's impossible. It's to say, if you ask for more resources, obviously, for public service, that's impossible to retaliate with taxes. Listen, this pantomime from Laffer's raven I already know, I've been explained a thousand times and it doesn't work. At every tax rebate that's made, the Generalitat tickets, and, in this case, the State, decrease. And, therefore, Catalonia needs a tax reform in real estate, IRPF and green taxation. And I say to them: "We have the debate with rigour. Catalonia does not have a fiscal pressure higher than the rest of the Spanish State, but it is that the Spanish State and Catalonia have a fiscal pressure of eight points under countries of equal wealth such as, for example, Italy or other countries of the European Union. Therefore, fiscal pressure in Catalonia and Spain is much lower than in the rest of the European Union. Therefore, there is scope to increase admissions and yes, there is scope to increase admissions and allocate them to better social policies, education and sanitation. You, in the end, are the Rendista party and the party, in this case, also speculators. Why, listen, if you're a liberal party, how do you defend ending the estate tax? If there is nothing more anti-distributive, against equal opportunities than suppressing the inheritance tax, which is that you have a patrimony only to be the son of whom you are... Well, I know that this one surely loves them, that for something, they have become monarchic or are the first liberal monarchic party in the history of mankind, almost. But, in any case, we have clearly stated: there is room for succession. Miri, in the reforms they're going to implement, in this case, first, Mr. Mas and then, no? , which corrected, in this case, the pact with the Republican Left. I think we have lost, in these years, practically 4,000_million euros with tickets that could have been earmarked for social policies. There is scope for bonuses, to modify the bonuses of the inheritance tax that do not really affect middle yields. Esconti, in Catalonia, the people who inherit a pis of 500,000_euros of cadastral value and 180,000_euros with estalvis do not pay res. Listen, I don't know, the middle class, a pea of more than 500,000 euros and 180,000 euros? My parents won't have that in life, and I don't even know if they get to be middle class. So, what's explaining to me? Later, IRPF. Listen, in Catalonia, the maximum type pays only the people who enter more than EUR 175,000; more than EUR 175,000 is the people who pay the maximum type. In this case, in Valencia, committed to the Botanic Pact, together with the Socialist Party and Podemos have carried out a tax reform that makes it pay the maximum rate from 120,000_euros. Look if they have margin – look if they have margin..., the Government. And the 23.5 type, which is paid to Catalonia from 100, 120,000_euros, to Valencia Country is paid from 50,000_euros. I don't know... if Catalonia is a fiscal hell, I don't know, Valencia must be the seven Biblical plagues, because, of course, or so... look if there's room for economic policy. And I'm telling you, I'm very concerned about the fact that the majority of the government does. Why, of course, if you are not willing to increase the turnover by EUR 300_million in estate tax policy or do not want to touch the IRPF for high returns, what do you want to do? A symbolic tax reform? I know they really like symbolism, but I don't like it. So, I'm doing the photos in the summer, but with the people's calendars and the public services, there's no pictures that's worth it! Then I say to them: "If you want assumptions, or if you want to go seriously with tax reform or not look for them. Because we really need resources if we want more teachers, more teachers, to reverse the university taxes that you have raised by 30_per_cent. So I'm telling you clearly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.92.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.93.0	...the tax reform in earnest or we will not agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.94.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Lluís Salvado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.95.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Well, Congresswoman Romero presents us with a little bit of everything, a little bit of a state budget, a little bit of tax fraud, a little bit of Catalan taxation. From the nine points we have put forward that, from our point of view, they intend to improve and focus on the priorities that our country has at these times, unfortunately, it has not been accepted. Surely, your secretary of organization, Mr. Salvador Illa, as he announced a few days ago, you presuppositions with Republicans don't want to talk about it or talk about it and they haven't accepted any of us. She's a disciplined MP. I suppose they are more concerned, surely, to compete with Ciutadans than to occupy the central space of the pact, of the debate in this Parliament. And, in any case, it is very difficult, if you do not want to talk about assumptions with the Republicans, that this debate that you pose, in a very uncertain way, has very much recourse to the Congress of Deputies and, surely, little we can discuss here in the Parliament of Catalonia. I understand that, even so, you've got your winnings, you always make a good predisposition. And you repeat, as if it is drawn from an automatism, that you can achieve 500_million euros for social policies, negotiating with the PSOE. To clarify a few concepts, to achieve these 500_million euros, in the first place, caldria that is modified the Law of Presuppositional Enabling to eliminate the veto of the Senate, caldria that is modified the Law of Presuppositional Enabling to relax the limit of the rule of expenditure– a few months of processing–, caldria posteriorly that the Congress, already without the right to veto by the Senate, raises the deficit– the limit of the deficit– for autonomy up to 0.3_per_cent of GDP, as approved by the Council of Fiscal and Financial Policy already in August, and as proposed to our deficit third, could also modify the additional disposition of the forty-first of GDP, such as approved by the Council of Fiscal and Financial Policy, already in August, and as proposed to our deficit, could also approve the decrees until the end of the year, as well as the decrees of the previous year, and the decrees that can not be executed in the previous year. And, as you know, 2017 Catalonia completed the deficit and debt targets, but we had a variation rate on the expenditure rule of 3.3_per_cent instead of 2.1_per_cent. In short, in order to be able to dispose of these 500_million euros, and to allocate them, for example, to pay a part of these foreign payments, it is necessary to complete all this: complicated – very – but in any case there is no doubt, that we will talk about it, whatever it takes, with the Government of the State in order to improve the living conditions of the citizens of our country. And we have proposed that the increments of the State that derives from the increase of the IRPF respect what is established by Law 22/2009, which regulates the system of financing, and we have this consideration because in the presupposition plan agreed between the PSOE and We can reiterate the same attitude that the People's Party has applied for years, suggesting that the increments in the state taxes return exclusively to the arches of the Spanish State. And we are totally in agreement with this increase in the type of return on capital, but it seems to us that this major fiscal effort of the Catalan taxpayers has to revert, as the law says, to 50_per_cent, in both administrations. And we ask that we demand a calendar so that the 6,000_million that you give the State to the Catalans, among them, as you highlight, the later commitments with Catalonia that the PSOE established in 2008; we hope that we will be able to complete it years later. Nor have they complied with what are the investments promised in Rodalies, which as announced today since 2008 have only been completed a 12_per_cent. That is why, when someone tells us now that if you vote for the assumptions of the State you will have the Catalans 2,000 million more euros we look at it with a certain perplexity. Let's be honest: if we support the government of the state, it's to make a game out of it, the most corrupt party in Europe, not because we expect all these debts to be complicated. In any case, the calendar is already there, and we hope that they will complicate it, and it seems to me consistent that they also ask the government of the PSOE to face the fight against the fraud with the rigour that we are doing here in Catalonia. You spoke before the tax gap: the Spanish State does not know which tax gap it has, so it might be worth asking the Spanish State for that calculated, and that they revert fiscal amnesty, and that they are up to date in submerged economy. And, finally, as you know, we are always open to incorporating into the debate of our own law of better assumptions in progressivity, in fiscal figures of medium-environmental character, we are open to talk about it, but, as is reasonable, the detail and rigour with which to deal with all this design of fiscal character we hope to be able to do so with those parliamentary groups that are likely to correspond with the future assumptions of the Generality. And in any case – let's hope – we would be happy to be able to talk to the socialist group, and talk to you about these questions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.96.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.97.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, Economic Adviser, Members of Parliament, Mirin, today, with this motion of the Socialist Group is in some way calling for the government to be set up in Madrid, as one hand to a government that is not going through its best hours: we know it, and we understand it all. It is a young man who really seeks the impulse of this Parliament for a proposal of law already entered into the Congress so as to give support to the modification of the Law of Presuppositional Enabling. This, as you know, would make it possible to circumvent the veto of a Senate with an absolute majority of the PP in order to facilitate the approval of assumptions, as you know, with a party with which it will be very expensive to talk about the deficit and the indebtedness of the different communities. Actually, this represents an important step towards unlocking a law that, as you know, came from the hands of the PP and the PSOE after an express reform, the year 2011, to regulate and control the deficit of the State, the communities and the assemblies. Precisely, it is the mother of the LRSAL, which limited and very much the self-management capacity of the local administration and caused the blockade of many municipal services, which we are still patenting in a very serious way also in Catalonia. With the Law of Presuppositional Stability, in fact, the Government Sánchez counts on an instrument to give compliment to the austerity commitment pacts in Brussels, and to stay – obviously – well with Europe. They cannot eliminate it, as is required in the pact with Podemos, Catalonia in Comú - Podemos, but they can modify it. And, entering into this pact, we can share many of the measures to which you have come, such as the increase of the minimum interprofessional wage, but also the diem, to the lords of the PSC and the PSOE, that this could be approved through a decree law, which should be validated at the Congress but would not include it in the law of assumptions. Surely the mortgage charge, with the protagonistship that has taken over later with the Supreme's judgment, will be approved by decree of the law: does this not link to the assumption? In change, why does the increase in the minimum interprofessional wage want to condition it to the support of independent parties in the chamber? This is political and economic demagogic. Less gestures and more effective measures of compromise with social rights in Catalonia. But I'm already entering the content of the motion with some reflections. First of all, as Mr Salvado has also explained, they say that this increase in the deficit target that we have said to us, from 0.1 to 0.3, that you actually presented this last August, does not automatically allow us to dispose of these 500_million euros. They know that the expenditure rule is changed and that this would touch the other objective, which is the presuppositional stabilization. Actually, if you want to change and if you want to do something, what you have to do, as was also asked yesterday by the councillor Puignero, is the modification of the additional provision 41 of the Law of general assumptions; here you can take resources that are directed directly to chapter I and we can deal with some of these extraordinary payments of the functions that you so much ask of us in this Parliament. So, that's pretty demagogic. That every person recognizes what they can do for Catalonia and actually do it. Less gestures and more determination. We ask for determination, of course we ask it: because it is making effective the totality of the funds that remain pending to pay to Catalonia, the derivatives of the third additional provision and the financing of the Mossos. Determination also before the tax fraud, as has also been done from the Catalan Tax Agency, which is finalizing the execution of pla 15-18 and foresees the next approval of 19-20. Deures have been made in fiscal awareness policies, with programmes aimed, for example, at the ESO Institutes, with agreements and collaboration agreements with tax co-legislation and professional associations and with the increase and prioritisation of resources to deal with tax inspection and the provision of forty places to the technical aspects of tax managers. For what the whole tax side does, mirin, the capture of this government, as already demonstrated in its pact, is to promote equal opportunities through social assumptions and a tax system of fairer and more efficient taxation. Therefore, this whole line of taxation we are going to talk about and negotiate it with all those groups that are willing to talk about it in the proper debate of assumptions that will take place in this Parliament. For what it does to the green tax, they have to recognize that we are pioneers, and for what it does to the deduction of the return tax benefits, which they also raise, they have to know that the government has started a line of work and we agree that there is a study that includes the adjutant and opportune considerations to see the effectiveness of this measure. That is why our position will be to vote in favour of some points that we believe and understand as much as possible, but we cannot do so with others, because we do not share the essence of the issue. Look, we don't want any more gestures. It's complicated times for Catalonia, we want resolution. Catalonia saw a situation of repression, arrested and exile, in full 21st century...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.98.0	You're out of your mind, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.99.0	...for that reason, I'm starting to do my dues. Do not expect what Catalonia can do, but recognize what you can do for Catalonia as well. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.100.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to fix its position, has the word the Parliamentary Subgroup of CUP - Constituent Creed. It's Congresswoman Maria Servent's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.101.0	Well, this motion for a resolution talks about the fiscal objectives of deficit, debt and expenditure. They are objects that claim to contain expenditure, and are imposed for the European Union. The dream of Europe has been one of the longings of all those generations who, from the dark moment of Francoism, see in the idea of Europe the possibility of becoming part of an area of economic and social success. But beyond sleep, the reality is that for the Catalan popular classes Europe has never been a favorable ally. From its origins, the European project has never been a project conceived from the very beginning of the best of the living conditions of its citizens. The economic interests of large corporations – industrial and financial – are those that have marked and those that mark the European construction agenda of the state's hand and of the entire European institutional framework. The Spanish State de facto joined the European Economic Community in 1986 at the hands of the PSOE government with the signature of the accession treaty. It is a moment of great crisis, in which, according to the character of the Single Act, Europe has already decided to bet on the dismantling of the welfare state and on neoliberalism as a strategy of economic policy. The single currency is a much discussed project from its beginnings, which counts with criticisms including orthodox economists. The argument of these economists is that because there is a single currency there must be a fiscal union, a political union and a presuppositional union. Europe is a space with vast economic and social disparities in order to implement a single currency. In 2007, when the crisis enslaves, the imbalances over which the European monetary union has built up dramatically. Peripheral economies see their productive structures as having a brutal grip, and so... more so, if that's what we add to the rescue of the powerful, we find ourselves in a very complex situation. In 2007, we are talking about a 40_per_cent debt of GDP and currently – the Stability Pact marks 60_per_cent – we find ourselves practically 100_per_cent. Why apply these objects and rules of expenditure content? So they tell us, as Mr. Cano said, "because we have to close the tap, and because we have to be a little more..., right? We must bear in mind that we must contain this public expenditure. But really the end is not this, because if we see that with the application of these rules these concrete objectives have not occurred and, therefore, we have not been able to reduce the deficit in the countries, so then, what we do is to say that these rules apply because what we want to do is precisely make a transfer of public funds...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.102.0	You're out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.103.0	...on the private side and dismantle the public sector. And that's why we stand against points 1 to 4 and in favour of the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.104.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to fix his position also, has the word, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.105.0	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Vice-President of the Government. Surely this young man is the most effective example of what we are going to see today – we saw him yesterday, we will see him again today – which is the history of love less corresponded, surely, to history, which are all the intentions of the Socialist Party because those independence groups that led Pedro Sánchez to the presidency of the government, so I have once and for all the gesture of adopting assumptions. And that's why, so, they plant this young man. This is the objective– more or less has already come to say, on the part of some other Member–, but basically what is planted are two things – two –, basically two: one, more deficient, and the other, more taxed. Look, we can't agree with each other. More difficult is not..., we cannot agree because precisely the control of public expenditure is what has allowed us to situate..., which has allowed us to exit, the Spanish economies and also, obviously, the Catalan economy, from the crisis situation in which they were fully immersed. It did not come out definitively; it went out from little to little, that yes, it went out grew, it believed that at these moments it began to panic – I don't know if there was anything going on to see the arrival of the Spanish government of the Socialist Party or not, but this is a reality. And for what he does to more taxes, look, we're supporters of less taxes. You're always looking at the idea of raising the taxes you earn the most, we want to lower the taxes you earn the least. Because yes, the Catalans are the Spaniards we pay the most taxes to Catalonia, yes. 80_percent of Catalans making less than 30_000_euros are the Spanish that we pay the most IRPF of all Spain. And that has to be corrected and that is what we want to correct, just to the contrary of what you want to do. But you also put on this young man another aspect like the least curious, which is to say, "Listen, the government of the state pays the generality everything you give. Miri, so far agreed, that he is paying everything he is now, yes; but, of course, then don't say: "Look, also the third additional arrangement for what he does to investments. Listen, but if your minister told the generality four days ago, "Listen, we won't pay them, anyway, we'll make the investments we should have made. We already agree, at this stage; we do not want to pay this money directly to the Generality, but to make the investments that were necessary. And, finally, obviously, we will vote in favour of the points that refer to tax fraud; obviously, we will vote in favour. Now, let me also say: we do not agree that it is tax fraud to charge the tax on property transfers to the terraces of bars and restaurants, which is what the Government is doing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.106.0	Vagi ending, Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.107.0	...at this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.108.0	Thank you. Well; finally, to pronounce on the papers, you have the word for the group proposing Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.109.0	You see, Mr. Cano would say: he didn't read my PR and he didn't listen to me. Because, listen to one thing: what we do today is pay more who has more. And in the case of estates, the one that inherits more, not 500,000_euros of family housing or with 180,000_euros of estalvis, but the one that inherits much – 50_millions of euros, 30 –, the one that collaborates a little more. Why have we been working hard for a long time with public officials, middle class workers, so listen to me, we can't work hard at these times, after so many years of crisis, at those who have the most or those who earn the most? Listen, there's a study from the Department of Economics that says that who has less fiscal pressure on the IRPF trams are the high ones, it's that you say it's an economics study. Home, so we push the high-rises, which are the least fiscal pressure they have. Home, it's that you only talk about the bass; of course, if you lower the bass trams it ends up affecting the high. No, we push the high – we push the high. But you don't always have to do that demagogue of "you want to push more taxes; more taxes to whom you have more, to whom you earn more and to whom you haven't made any tax effort in all these years of crisis, that's what we want to do. And, of course, you didn't talk about tax fraud; I don't know why, I don't know if it's random or what. And, listen, green tax. Green taxation, we'll tell him to pay more who pollutes the most. Is that what we're against, too? So: "No, pushing taxes is... no, pushing taxes to whom you have the most, to whom you earn the most and to whom you pollute the most, that's what we want. And we give this to Citizens, the People's Party and Juntes for Catalonia. And the Republican Left. Because what's going to happen here today is that you, the four of you, will vote in favour of the same points in tax reform. Then they'll come and talk to us, the assumptions... I don't know, I don't have a call yet, to talk about assumptions. The case is that today Ciutadans, PP, Esquerra and Juntes per Catalunya will vote the same on taxation. For a long time. [[applause]] , let's be of milongas– let's be of milongas. And, really, if you want a different, more progressive assumption that you work and care for the most disadvantaged, better education, health care in the state, you vote for Pedro Sánchez's assumptions, and negotiation, which is what you have to do, and not demand, that it is what you are asking for in some of the papers that you are planting. Honestly, I think...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.110.0	Time's up, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.111.0	...that you – I'm done –, I think you should be a little more honest and put your points on it, where you play. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.112.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Well, we're still calling for a vote. And I would ask the groups to repeat, if they have already done so, the separate voting petitions in this motion. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.113.0	Yes, excuse me. [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Mr. Pujol, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.114.0	We ask for a separate vote on the... all the points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.115.0	All points, all right. There were other petitions, but I understand that we can vote separately from all points, and therefore we are content with the aspirations of all groups in this sense. Pass... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The bell? Let's go back to dialing the bell, then. [[Long break.]] Let us then proceed to the vote on this motion. And we'll vote separately on each and every one of the two points in the vote. Let's start the vote with point number one. The vote begins. This was approved by 85 votes to 44, with no abstentions. Let's now proceed to the vote on Point 2. The vote begins. This was approved by 85 votes to 44, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 25 votes in favour, 104 against and no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number four. The vote begins. This was approved by 25 votes to four, with 100 abstentions. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. This point is approved unanimously, namely, 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's now vote point number 6– point number 6. The vote begins. This point was approved by 68 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number seven. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] I said the separate points... it's the second time, or the third time I insist on one thing, if they want to ask for the subpoints, they have to claim it. We were left to separate the points and the 7 including all the subpoints that the number 7 point has. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen, the vote can't stop. I couldn't stop the vote. In any case, I ask the chamber whether they want to repeat the vote or not, at this point. Do all groups agree? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Perfect. So vote again. Tomorrow, please, if you want to vote separately on the point to and point b. Yes, 7th. All right. So, we vote on point 7.a. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 100 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote point 7.b. The vote begins. This was approved by 30 votes to three, with 96 abstentions. Let's go now and vote point number eight. The vote begins. This was approved by 29 votes to four, with 96 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point number nine. The vote begins. This was approved by 29 votes to four, with 96 abstentions. And now we're going to vote for point 10 and after this young man. The vote begins. This was approved by 66 votes to 63, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Tell me, Mr. Batet, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.116.0	For an acclaim, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.117.0	Clarification of what, vote?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.118.0	By vote, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.119.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.120.0	In this connection, I would like to say that if the four Members who cannot vote on the vote have been able to vote differently. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.121.0	Calm down. Mr. Batet, this is not actually a vote acclaim, you have not made clear who followed your group's vote but has explained a situation. And, therefore, this is not a vote cry. He's done it now, but anyway, he's been doing it for the best of times. Yeah? Say, Mr. Cid, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.122.0	For a point of order, too, what Mr. Batet refers to. It's not true what you're saying, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.123.0	No, it's been made clear. Is that a vote acclaim? Now you're going into a debate. No, Mr. Cid, you don't have the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You don't have the word, Mr. Cid. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into social deprivation]] [[302-000030/12]] Next, the following motion is the motion following the question to the Government on social disprotection, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.124.0	Good afternoon to everyone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.125.0	When he wants to. Yes, Congresswoman, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.126.0	Thank you, President. Before I begin, I would like to thank the presence of people in the area of child protection and adolescence, who are great fighters for the rights of minors and the working conditions of workers. Today we are bringing to debate a motion that includes a large part of what should be priorities for the Afers Socials councillor, as it includes the collectives who, in the opinion of my parliamentary group, are currently most unprotected, and who suffer social disprotection from the government. And, as I was saying yesterday, it's no longer just us, it's that, at these very moments, just a few meters from here, we have at the door of Parliament a collective protesting for the management that is being made of the guaranteed income of citizenship, and, like our motion, what they are asking for is more transparency in the management and review of some denials. On the other hand, we have a serious problem, not only of waiting lists in dependence, but also of precariousness of the working conditions of the professionals who care for our elderly, because the ratios of professionals included in the portfolio of social services as they are out of date, and last year they denounced him workers and the employer himself also in front of the doors of this Parliament. And besides the territorial inequality that exists in places like my city, in Hospitalet de Llobregat, makes the ratio of residences not that it is below the Catalan average, but that it is below half the Catalan average, and if we count the aging of the population of Hospitalet, it is that it is much higher than the rest of Catalonia. We are also talking about a planning problem. That is to say, the territorial planning of resources because it is not the right one, and we therefore call in our motion for an update of the portfolio of social services, which is already seven years late, the increase of places in residences and day centres, the restoration of the universality of benefits linked to dependence, the improvement of the ratio of professionals and the improvement of their working conditions as well, and the elimination of territorial inequalities. Another group that needs urgent attention is that of persons with disabilities, and we ask to increase resources for sign language interpreters so that deaf people, for example, if they need to go to the doctor do not have to wait twice, on the one hand, the waiting list in health care, and, on the other, the waiting list in interpreters. We want to address the low occupational rates of persons with disabilities, the delays in payments to TECs and the cuts that have prompted part of the sector to challenge judicially the bases of subsidies, and to increase protection for groups with special difficulties, without harming the rest of persons with disabilities. The attention to children also needs a prioritization in the budgets of the Generalitat, the crisis of the increase of the arrival of foreign adolescents without family references is being used as an excuse by the Government to cover that the system was already collapsed and that already made water in the last legislature. Let's remember: the dismantling of a network of sexual exploitation that captured underprivileged children, the oversized rents of the FASI Foundation, or the case of Ricardo Calvo. Let us not be fooled: here have there been those who have profited from the child protection system. And between poor funding and dubious management, the system collapsed a long time ago, and it requires a restructuring of the system and, of course, an increase in investment so that incidents that happen in the centres will stop being titular day, day as well, and protect both minors and professionals who are with them. And, finally, we ask to reverse the Government's paralysis in relation to the Catalan social laws that are exclusive competence of the Generalitat, because we have a government with this hurtful tone, complaining of the laws that the Constitutional tombs them for invading competences, when they have their own laws, dead of disgust in a drawer, without deploying or giving budget, because if any of the governments that had paraded, of which they have paraded by the Generalitat, from the Socialist Party passing through the true left – let us remember that evil tripartite –, Esquerra or Convergence would have taken seriously the Law of the Right to Housing of the year 2008, because it would probably not have been necessary an anti-discharges law. Or, for example, because the Accessibility Act, which even yesterday the Ecom platform for people with physical disabilities gave a touch to the Government because of the lack of rigour in the report regarding the accessibility of the travel plan in Catalonia. To get out on paper I put everything together are codazos to be the first to get out in the photo when a law is passed, but when you have to get to work on the deployment of the laws come the strikes of fallen arms, and here there is no evil external enemy that prevents them from deploying our own laws, so get to the work at once and work a little bit on what can really be an improvement in the day-to-day life of the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.127.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. They now have the word, to defend the papers presented to the groups that have presented it. Firstly, the Group of the Socialist Party Unites per Avançar. There's a word from Mr. Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.128.0	Thank you, President. The Socialists per Avançar Parliamentary Group, together with Catalonia in Comú Puem, we have tabled a number of amendments to this proposal, to this motion, which Citizens did not want to accept. You ask for more resources with your left hand and close the resource tap with your right hand. Citizens have not accepted our amendment to support minimum living income, which is fundamental to the fight against child poverty in Spain and Catalonia; and, on the other hand, in their motion they call for increased resources to combat child poverty: it is contradictory. You complain about the lack of resources for the law of dependence, you hit the chest – and rightly so – that Catalonia is the autonomous community with the highest waiting list in Spain; but, on the other hand, you also reject the amendment in which we propose that support be given to the increase of 40_percent of the expenditure in dependency that would affect 160,000 dependents in Catalonia. Citizens talk about giving quality care to dependent people, but today they have even refused to admit an amendment where we ask that social contributions be recovered to non-professional caregivers, which is also proposed by the Government of Spain. You ask in your motion to increase resources for persons with disabilities while voting against processing the universal accessibility fund. And what is already the bomb: Citizens again reject an amendment that asks to raise pensions with the CPI and raise minimum and non-contributory pensions by 3_%. They reject an increase in pensions that would affect 1,600,000 Catalans and Catalans, when it is even a start-up pact that has been made in the Toledo Pact. It is that you are voting against what you are also drawn to accept. Citizens have also not accepted the amendment of progressive suppression of the pharmaceutical co-op, having even agreed this measure with the People's Party when they approved their budgets, and then, of course, do nothing. Citizens also ask for more resources to deal with the development of six laws in Catalonia, which are very important, but they will vote against them reaching Catalonia 2,200_million_de_euro. They are the party of contradiction and political posture. They say that state issues should be discussed in Congress, as if they did not offend Catalans, as if there were no people with disabilities here, or pensioners, or risk of social exclusion, or problems of poverty in children. Is it not for them, the proposals we make? Has nothing ever been asked of the Spanish Government since Parliament? You put your political interests before the general interest of seven million and half Catalans. And, even if you present this motion, because it asks a lot but you do not have a single proposal on how you are going to pay for what you are proposing, we will vote in favour of some of these points. Why? Because all of them, all of them, we've already voted for them. You have made a populist of the best successes of social policies that have already been voted for in this Parliament, in committee and in previous plenary sessions. There is nothing new, there is nothing new in the motion that you propose here today. Everything is voted on; even some points taken from some of the proposals put forward by our parliamentary group in the previous parliamentary term. Their contradiction comes to the point that instead of seeking an alternative wording to our amendments, they have preferred to negotiate with those whom you call separatists, coups and those who want to break Spain. They are a party installed in the permanent contradiction. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to strengthen our welfare state, if we want to increase investment in children, in dependency, in social services, in disability, there are only three ways to go at the same time: to better spend the resources we have, to effectively manage administrative processing and to increase income. We believe that a debate on social policy should always be accompanied by a debate on fiscal policy. Whoever else has to contribute more. If we don't get in any more, we can't spend any more. It's just that any worker knows that. It's a matter of common sense. And we have seen a moment ago as you agree, Citizens, People's Party, Junts per Catalunya, Republican Left in implementing the same fiscal policy, which is not in line with increasing income for social policies. And when there is the possibility of entering more, you decide, therefore, that you will not support the general budgets of the State. That's what you guys agree on, too. I only ask them to be clear, to be rigorous in their demands, to be consistent between what they say they are going to do and especially in how they are going to do it. In Catalonia some have convinced an important part of the population that the happy Arcadia is playing hands, is here next door [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] ; but you – and I finish, President – with the motion that you are presenting also have a fantastic future, for which you have no proposal as to how you are going to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.129.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, too, to present the papers presented for the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Ms Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.130.0	Well, good morning. So, as Congressman Moreno has certainly explained, we have made some papers together with the Socialist Party, which unfortunately led us to the conclusion that we are already predicting that it will pass, that we will again reveal in this Parliament the position of Ciutadans when he makes resolutions or when he makes motions to the Parliament of Catalonia. They claim measures and resources from the Government of Catalonia, which also claim the rest of the opposition groups, but they are not able to claim these resources either, or to support the Government of the State when they put them and the Congress group when the pacts, because they also benefit from the same citizenship they claim to be defending. Several examples have been given, Mrs De la Calle, but I want to focus especially on one that seems especially difficult: that of dependence. We are very much in agreement with what you are putting up with this young man, but it is so cynical and unrealistic to ask the Government of the Generality for more resources by dependence and not to accept that what we particularly care about are resources of the State as well. I suppose you are aware of how the financing of the LAPAD, of the law of dependence, has been during the later years. I suppose you are aware that from 2008 until 2017, the State has gone from financing 34% of this law to only 15%, less than half. I suppose he is aware that this increase that has had to be put, importantly, from the Government of the Generality, to a very good extent has fallen into the buttocks of the citizenry that co-sponsors these services. Therefore, to really defend that citizenry which requires resources of dependence and which is otherwise not able to access it because it does not have resources to copay is to claim it to the State that it ceases to make its obligations to finance the law of dependence also in Catalonia, and, obviously, to claim it to the Government of the Generality that all the increase in resources that the management does well, and we cease to be one of the autonomous communities that manages the dependency and that has more than enough hope for a place of residence, for example. But everything has to be said, Mrs. De la Calle, not just a part, and you, at all points, plant only a part. With the joint considerations that we have presented with the Socialist Group, precisely, what we came to improve them from their motion was this aspect, and in this example that I wanted to reinforce from the topic of dependence there were no concrete points: one, to support an increase of about 40_percent of the resources of the State that has been agreed between the Socialist Group – Government of the State – and the Unitos Group we can depend on for the coming year; and the other, as important as precisely supporting the recovery of the social security contribution for family members, family members, especially non-professional caregivers, who have also been placed in this presuppositionary agreement between the United States We can and the Socialist Group at the Congress, that is precisely the cause of family care and care that continues to be used by the State in respect for the rule of law. If not all this picture of the exact reality, of what happens to dependence, Mrs. De la Calle, it is cynical only to claim it from the Government of the Generality measures. We won't support him at this point, we won't. With the rest of the young man, he also wanted to insist: we will approve. We'll approve, but why? Because I end up feeling a hit of the best of the motions that have already raised others in this chamber: a hit of the young man's stop on the poor child, which I have already set up myself a couple of plenarys, a hit of the guaranteed income themes of citizenship, which both the Socialist Group and we have raised in the first plethora where we have been debating in this chamber in this legislature, a hit of other themes that have been treated as those of the unaccompanied minors, the situation of the child protection system, etc. But, obviously, there is a halt to the fears that we defend, that we have defended, that we approve and that we therefore vote in favour. In summary, more of the same, Mrs. De la Calle. I am concerned and want to convey to him the concern that the largest group of this chamber is not able to go further than making a hit and repeating things that we have already raised, but we will support it, except at this point 3, of which we ask for separate vote, because we are not willing to continue to support an overwhelming cynicism on the part of Ciutadans. And, by the way, if all this hit-and-run has been approved and will be resubmitted, it's because the government still doesn't complete them. And, therefore, I am not, again and again, every time we speak of social issues in this chamber, of calling on the Government to listen to the sovereignty of the Catalan people, to reside in the Parliament of Catalonia and to approve constantly, for example, that the Social Service Portfolio is reviewed, and the Government continues without doing so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.131.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Ms Marta Vilalta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.132.0	Well, thank you very much. First of all, what we want to do is deny the major the title of this young man, who says and talks about social deprivation. We are already accustomed to the vocabulary that normally uses Citizens as a propaganda tool, but in this case people do not adapt to reality. In fact, we could talk about inequalities, we haven't talked many times, about inequalities, in this House, and that's what the government also wants to do: talk and defend and fight these inequalities; a government that is committed, like the first, to redistributing wealth and ensuring equal opportunities. And that's why we also act from our group with full responsibility to meet those demands, those proposals with real solutions, with facts, with ambitious government action, and not just to cover the shipment, as we sometimes see. In fact, proof of this is that the actions that he is asking for in the majority, many, are already being done, and, therefore, I do not know if it is being asked again by ignorance, and in this case we would insist on explaining them better; I understand that it is not by bad faith, and it could also be to make a reconnaissance to the Government, to all that the Government is doing, that it has a clear social vocation, a clear vocation of progress and social cohesion, and in this case we should be pleased, therefore, that it makes this young man so as to recognize everything that the Government is already doing. In any case, if we go concretely to the content of the motion, look, about the guaranteed income of citizenship, they will always find us, because it is defending the deployment of a new right conquered; in fact, a new right conquered led by Consteller Bassa, the councillor of people, and that is now being undertaken unjustly, which is a shame. Now, what we can't do when we talk about guaranteed income is talk about improperly justified denials and talk about loss of rights; not just because it's fake, obviously, but because they're accusing public workers of not doing their job well. All processing on guaranteed income follows the relevant common administration procedure. What's better? Yeah. What's to speed up? Probably. That, therefore, we also need to improve the information? Yeah. But the point doesn't say that. And, therefore, who votes for this point – and I am also heading to the rest of the groups – will be told to public workers who are not doing their job well. In the case of the Social Services Portfolio update, we agree that we need to move forward with this update, and that is why we have tried to look, so that we can keep it for 2020. In 2019, there is one month left to get there; therefore, it is impossible to keep the economic memory as they ask, and, if we have tried to do so, it has not been possible, and, therefore, there is a commitment to be able to work in coordination with the development of the Strategic Platform of Social Services at the length of 2019. As far as dependent people are concerned, they already know that both 2016 and 2017 have created up to 3,800 residential and day-care places, which will continue to be done, and that there have also been improvements in grade II modules, in agreement with the sector, which have increased by 3.56_per_cent, and are also being filled with other increases in this area. But as they have already done the rest of the groups that have preceded me, fixed's, because all folded, when we speak of dependence, everything was conditioned to the assumption that also above the State, the assumption tied to dependence, and it is precisely the State that does not bring 50_percent of the resources to which the law requires, and, in turn, it is the Generality that faces, with its own resources, 80_percent, with these resources that are suitable, precisely to be able to cover all the needs. Which also happens with the CETs, with the special work centres, which you ask us to increase the assumptions of the CETs, but it turns out that as State competence we are also underfunded. We have a 50_million reversal for the CETs, and it is precisely the Generality that, seeing that this is insufficient, also brings about 35_million more, so as not to leave a person without any help. It's not just finance, it's regulation, too. It is state competence; therefore, it is unreal not to ask the Spanish State what I am completing. In fact, what we see is that Ciutadans, not accepting any of the papers, don't want to know anything about this Spanish State. Maybe they're independent, you know, and you don't know, if you don't want to know about the King of the State and you want us to decide everything and we can do it from here. In any case, about poor children, it is clear that it is a priority for this government, and that is why we have also urged to be able to create this instrument for assessing public investment in children. Now, about his point of attention and protection to childhood, what we cannot accept is that the work that the government has not only done, assuming this reprehension of the country, of protecting children, comes or does not come from outside, is that they are aware that many advances have been made, even though they do not want to recognize them: more than 200 places, in the last few years, in various services, and more than 2,290 places in emergence services for young strangers not accompanied. I'm done. There is no paralysis, lords of Ciutadans, there is no lack of protection. Do they know what social protection is? That many of the laws passed in Parliament are still challenged. Do they know what social protection is? Having political prisoners and political exiles. Do they know what social protection is? See how they face unwarranted judgments that are a farce; or feel vulnerable before the height of the extreme right-wing fascism that you do not condemn. And do you know what social protection is? Walking a bus in an unworthy, cruel and inhuman way...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.133.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.134.0	... talking about reprisals, to generate hatred or to withdraw votes. We will continue to work from the government for social protection. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.135.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vilalta. Next, for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mrs. Anna Tarrés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.136.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, this young man, all the way down into the conquest of social rights and want to improve the functioning and management of social policies, I have the feeling that he takes advantage of adventurousness to discredit, erode and disqualify government action. Madam of the Street, social policies, the most vulnerable collectivities of society and, ultimately, people are and will always be a priority for our government. And already entering the subject of the motion, first of all, the guaranteed income of the citizenry. As you know, in Catalonia we are pioneers in the creation of this law, which will be implemented progressively until 2020. Today it benefits more than a hundred_ thousand people in Catalonia. In just one year, more than 2,500 people have found work thanks to a specific program of training and accompanying the world of work. The Department of Labour, Afers Socials and Families allocates enguany 309_million euros to the guaranteed income of citizens, 81_million euros more than the import destined for the year 2016 to the minimum income of insertion. Don't you think that's really worrying about people's equality? You, who seem to have had so much influence in Madrid and who seek so much for the equality of all Spaniards, have not seen the need to implement the guaranteed income in Spain? What have you done to Congress? And now you come here to demand what you have not demanded of Madrid? But, of course, what you claim is to erode the government, and not prioritise people. Second of all, social services. The basic social services are the services that give the assembly with appropriate resources, more the resources of the Generality, through the program contract, which, in the end, for the period 2017 to 2019, is 915,3_million euros, 90_million euros more than the initials. This will allow, for example, the contracting of more than 850 professionals. The general framework of the programme contract allows the planning and coordination of the provision of social services, social work programmes and equality policies. This does represent a qualitative leap in the system. And, of course, we want more and better of these qualitative jumps. In the third place, dependence. According to Law 39/2006, on dependency, and as it is collected from the economic memory of the law project, the State put some financing conditions: the Spanish State had to bring as a minimum the same as you bring the autonomous community; it was agreed that it had to be co-financed at 50_per_cent. In practice, however, the generality contributes 80_percent of public finance to Catalonia; yes, sirs, 84_percent of public finance. How's the food, that? Where is it, the State? I'll explain. The PP government at the end of 2012 eliminated, by royal decree, the level of financing agreed with the autonomous communities. This meant a loss, only in 2017, of EUR 82.5 million. With these moneys, for example, there could be more than twelve thousand people and created nearly 2,400 work places. This is not said by the Government or Joints for Catalonia; it is said by the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services to the XVIII Opinion of the Observers of Dependency. Don't you worry about the state's failings? Fourth place, the poor child. They're talking about malnutrition. What do you mean? One thing is talking about malnutrition and another about malnutrition. Today, everyone can eat in Catalonia, and the catering and open centres guarantee it. And let's just add that everyone's in school. I will not deny that we have a problem with food culture, but malnutrition is not only associated with the economic or social condition, but is also associated with education. Or isn't it with me that the aesthetic and beautiful stereotypes of today also involve malnutrition? For what it does to the best of child care, the DGAIA is already doing a lot of work and we will follow it. It is true that emergency measures have been implemented before the massive arrival of the least protected and that the centres have been or are saturated, but despite the fact that there has been an over-effort and that not only the vital needs have been covered, but also the educational ones. And, finally, I'm going to deliver this document to you right now. [[the speaker the show]] , which explains in detail the government's commitment to the standard deployment to which you refer to the young person. Ms. De la Calle, despite your insistence that most of it is good, the government is putting a line to the needle, and we would like to do more if we rely on resources and regulatory capacity. That is why they are more suitable than the words of the most honorable President Torra: "It will not be the republic that will bring us the civil, social and national rights that we so long for...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.137.0	You're out of your mind, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.138.0	...but it will be the struggle for these rights that will take us to the republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.139.0	Thank you, Mrs. Tarrés. [[Greetings.]] Next, to fix his position has the word, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.140.0	Vice President, from the Escó. First of all, the motion presented to us by the Ciutadans Group is an objective that we could implement in compliment of the regulations and some petitions of absolutely generic character. And in the initial motion there were two or three elements that had a concretion and that ended up trading with the governing groups. Obviously, we agree with the guaranteed income of citizenship and with what it stands for. We agree with the update of the Social Service Portfolio and adjust the rates, but it is not concrete. We agree with the reduction of the waiting lists of dependent people; there are five sub-items, but they are not going to come to fruition. We agree with the measures for people with disabilities, but we find ourselves again with generic measures. And we agree that action must be taken against the poor, but the petitions are absolutely generic. Yes, of the two questions in which the government was involved, what we found was that it was precisely those that were concrete. The first, which refers to proposals to improve the working rights of workers and workers in the dependency sector: it is changing and it is trading with a generic old man for his rights. So we, with all due respect... would only lack! And the second, which refers to the commitment of 2,2_percent of GDP to infantile policies, that they trade, eliminate it and incorporate a generic "progressively increase, with which it means: one cent more each year, already increase it significantly. What we want to move from the group is that, not only with the approval of this young man, but with the compliment that the government can give, there would be no action to reverse the situation we have in the poor, in social services, in dependents and underage. This, yes, by luck, the week that sees – and let's say by luck – we have five days called for a wave to sanitation, we have called on the 29th a wave to teaching; we also have called on the same day two hours of wave to the public sector and on the 12th of December also, a general wave to the public sector. It will be there where we find the right, where we will win the right and not in motions like these, which are actually empty in content.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.141.0	All right. Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. To finish the turn of interventions, for his Parliamentary Group of the People's Party has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.142.0	Thank you, Vice President. Also, from the escó estant. First of all, I share some criticism of the young lady's title. The title of the inquiry is also related to social deprivation. I think you've been more opportune to talk about social protection, because things are actually being done, efforts are being made, but we also agree with the motion's proposals that insufficient efforts are being made. And, in this sense, point out two aspects of what the motion is about: guaranteed citizenship. It has begun to implement, it began to implement in the year passed to locks and ravines, but there is a fact that it is expedient: three_of_each_four requests are denied, many of them without justification; surely the fruit of the presses to be able to deny petitions, in the face of the administered silence that was introduced to the law. And the warmest thing is to the water: the development of the Rules because it makes it clear exactly who are the people who have the right in the most objective way possible; first question. Second, I think it's important: to reiterate over dependence..., the financing of dependence – of dependence, not independence – on the part of the Government of the State. Ignore repeatedly... – and I am surprised that today the Catalonian group in Comú Podem has joined us too – they repeatedly ignore that the financing lives of the Law of Dependency are two: one, finalist, through the Imserso, which is actually the State provides, not above 20, the 17_percent of the financing of dependence, and the rest, through the system of financing..., through the LOFCA. And it's through the LOFCA where communities get the difference until they reach 50_per_cent. Therefore, it is not certain that there is adequate funding from the State of the Law of Dependency. And, finally, in order to make social policies it is not necessary to make more taxes or to spend more or to make it more deficient, it is simply necessary to prioritize with a non-financial expenditure, not finalist, of 23,000_million euros, which is what we have, the Generalitat de Catalunya. We believe that there is enough scope to prioritise spending and to address the social needs that are raised in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.143.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, Mrs Naomi's Member of the street has the word another time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.144.0	Thank you. Well, with regard to the rejected amendments, of course, we have already announced that we were going to reject all the amendments that did not fall within the exclusive competence of the Generalitat. And of the parties that give support to the Government, therefore, the presentation of these amendments did not surprise us, but, of course... of the commons and the socialist party, of course..., these amendments in budgetary key... I guess what happens is that like no one buys them in the Congress of Deputies because those Fake budgets, therefore, negotiated in prison, that even Europe have hit them with a touch saying that these – these – budgets do not fit; for, of course, as we are..., taking advantage that we are in the week of Black Friday because they have tried to sell the ones here at a balance price. And, of course, it's also funny because this..., this motion was introduced a little over a year and a half ago, well, a..., about a year and a half ago, because we found that..., then we were in the same situation, in total unprotectedness. And you have neither tabled these amendments nor made the criticisms you have made to them today – to them – proposals. And look, what's changed? – What has changed? What has changed so that this speech can be changed? And what has changed is that now they have to pay Falcón's gasoline to Mr. Pedro Sánchez or the Moncloa mortgage, which with these partners that have been sought, then, of course, that mortgage comes out very – very, very – expensive. Look, we could probably take some of the points from the amendments you have tabled, but not in this way. We are not going to vote in favour of budgets that penalise the working class or the self-employed with taxes. So present those without linking them to budgets, and perhaps we could agree on some of the measures, as we have understood, which they seem to have forgotten, with the amendment we have accepted which talks about the coordination between the Generalitat and the Government of Spain in the fight against child poverty. We have also accepted amendments by Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra concerning the instrument for assessing public investment in children, and that investment in public housing be made in areas of high demand. We have not been able to agree on the subject of the Social Services Charter because we understand that seven years have already been enough to carry out its updating. And, look, Mrs. Viltalta, if in thirteen months you haven't given them time to renew the portfolio..., you won't give them time to renew the portfolio of social services, but they were going to declare independence in eighteen months. Look, recognize that social protection is not – it is not – your priority, and because if they really cared...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.145.0	You're running out of time, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.146.0	... they would close all their political bars and stop diverting money to the process to invest them in social protection. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.147.0	Yeah, it's called a separate vote from point three and some other... that's it, huh? [[Pause.]] Is there no more request for a separate vote? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Vilalta, why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] By separate votes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.148.0	President, we would ask for a separate vote on point 1.b, points 2, 4.c, 4.d and 5.d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.149.0	See, 1.b...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.150.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.151.0	I repeat it again, please: 1.b...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.152.0	1.b...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.153.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.154.0	...of the 2...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.155.0	The two.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.156.0	... 4.c, 4.d and 5.d. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.157.0	All of these separately or can you vote for the block? [[Pause.]] All separated. All right. Someone else, yeah? [[Pause.]] I don't understand, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, okay. All right. We were already... [[Pause.]] Let us then proceed to the vote on this motion. We vote first on point 1.b–1.b–, which has been asked to vote separately from this subpoint. Let's move on to the vote on point 1.b, I repeat. The vote begins. This point was approved by 69 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Let's now vote point number 2 – point number 2. The vote begins. This was approved by 65 votes to 63. Let's just go ahead and vote number three. The vote begins. This was approved by 100 votes to 29 with 29 abstentions. Let's now vote point 4.c – point 4.c. The vote begins. This was approved by 65 votes to 60, with 4 abstentions. Let's now vote on point 4.d– 4.d. The vote begins. This was approved by 65 votes to 60, with 4 abstentions. Let's now vote on point 5.d– 5.d. The vote begins. This was approved by 65 votes to 64. Let us now vote, if there are no other points left to vote separately, the rest of the House. We vote, therefore, on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was adopted by 125 votes to none, with 4 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the working conditions of workers in the tourism sector]] [[302-00026/12]] Let's go now to the next point of the day's smell. The new point of the day is the Movement following the question to the Government on the working conditions of workers in the tourism sector, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Mrs Yolanda López has the word to expose it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.158.0	Thank you, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.159.0	When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.160.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank these women who are with us today, the Kellys, who have become an example of the struggle for labour rights in Spain. [[Greetings.]] Because in front..., because in front of those who seek to make us compete downwards by forcing the law and unprotecting those who work, there they have been, who have not given up in their effort to break with that spiral of precariousness that drags us all. Thank you, comrades, truly, thank you so much for your tireless struggle. Mr Councillor, it has made clear to us in the past plenary that you do not intend very much to put yourself to work in order to give you some solution to the serious problems that are facing the workers in the tourism sector; no solution for the housekeepers, no solution for the Kellys. However, while you were throwing balloons out, in Catalonia there are hundreds of women condemned to suffer from anxiety, pains of arthrosis, cervicals, knees, deformed hands, and that the only solution they have had so far have been the self-medication of ibuprofens every eight_hours. All this in order to be able to clean between twenty-five and thirty rooms a day, and with salaries that in most cases does not reach 2_€ per room. Mr Councillor, the B side of the good data of tourism in Catalonia are women punished to slavery for illegal and abusive practices of companies that outsource their own activity, their trunk activity to save cost, or what is the same, illegal assignments of workers at the expense of mockery of all labour legislation. Women without decent working conditions, who in most cases are condemned to not be able to choose because they have mouths to feed, because they have mortgages to pay and because it is perhaps the only one, often the only salary that enters them home. Therefore, despite the pains and overwork, they have no choice but to continue living in a permanent vicious circle. It cannot be possible that in 2018, in Catalonia, there are women sentenced to work in conditions of exploitation: we cannot allow it. These women can no longer wait for you to decide to change your position of inaction or for Mr Sánchez to decide to make a job reform in Spain. Proposals must be made, measures must be put in place to curb the abuses of these companies, the fraud of law being committed, the imposition of hotel chains on the salaries of women workers, external companies, these illegal transfers of women workers. We are all aware that the labour reform of the PP has allowed any kind of mockery of collective agreements, which has allowed the liberating of outsourcing, creating painful conditions for women workers, and also allowing employers to exonerate themselves from everything. But, Mr. Counsellor, here we are not to see who is to blame, that is not; here we are to seek solutions. We told you the other day during the plenary session, we tell you again today: Mr. Counsellor, stop looking elsewhere, it is time for you and your Government to start working. Something can always be done, it's only a matter of political will. That is why, while you and your Government are deciding, today the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pomero has brought to this plenary a motion which responds to the requests of the tourism workers, which responds to the requests of the Kellys, to start putting in place measures to reverse the terrible situation of the tourism workers; a motion which improves the quality of the work of these tireless housekeepers, betting on granting a distinction and recognition to those hotel companies that are betting on fair and quality work, companies that do not outsource, that accept a collective agreement, that they comply with labour risk laws, that they are betting on equality between men and women, companies that are betting on the recruitment of vulnerable groups and companies that are betting on sustainable jobs, making the wealth impact on those who work. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.161.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, it's the turn of the groups. And, first of all, the Socialist and Progressive Units Parliamentary Group. Mr. Rafel Bruguera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.162.0	Thank you, President. A cordial greeting to the pee cleaners, to the "Kellys of Catalonia and, especially, to those of the Gironinian comarques, those of Lloret de Mar, with whom I had occasion to speak in more than one occasion. This is not the first time we have dealt with the precariousness of work and the working conditions of public sector workers. On 17 November two years ago, the Treball Commission adopted a proposal for a resolution by our group setting up a series of initiatives and measures on safety in the work and safety of pee-cambers and controls on the part of the labour inspectorate to fight against irregularities in the labour market in the hospital sector. It's been two years and the government has done nothing. The inaction was total. Is that the democratic mandate you're talking about? What is left of the mandate of the Parliament of Catalonia that the mouth is filled with? The democratic and parliamentary mandates only serve when you are interested, gentlemen of the government? Don't they serve when they make the proposal, and it's approved, it's some opposition group? In any case, we have again insisted, two months ago, on the inoperability of the government and the lack of willingness to deal with a real problem affecting at least fifteen thousand people in Catalonia. Today the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can propose to us the creation of a segell of just and quality work in the field of hospitality and restoration. It goes so far as to vote in favour of most of the points, making it clear, however, that concrete measures are still pending, beyond the segell, such as the fight against precariousness, the devaluation and the degradation of working conditions; partiality and temporality; subcontracting, which has generated different wages at the same rate – for a job that before it was paid a thousand euros a month, can now be charged three hundred, four hundred euros; exploitation – to take into account that the hostelry is the sector that accumulates the most unremunerated external hours – ; the need to increase the prevention of occupational risks, or the reduction of the working load of the pis and other collectors in the sector. I repeat: we will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, although I also confess that we are not optimistic about the result of implementing a quality standard. That's so good of us to make a mistake. We have presented a single statement, at 1.1.b, which has not been accepted, which will not prevent us from voting in favour of the initial text. We do not criminalize the outsourcing of certain services, it is a legitimate option, both in private enterprise and in public administration. Without going further, the Barcelona Assembly, and, therefore, the Mrs. Colau, externalitzen you serve as basic and essential as the road clearness, the gathering of stunts or the service of home care. Therefore, the problem is not the chosen model for the performance of a service; the problem is if this model is used in a fraudulent way to exploit, pre-characterize and subvert workers' labor rights. Or, he said with other words: the workers who serve through external companies must have the same rights and pay the same wages as those who work directly for the hotel chain or for the hotel. This is what we wanted to express in the slogan, which we thought was more accurate than the initial text. It's over, President. In front of quality, but also the adoption of concrete measures that we have perfectly assessed and known. We cannot wait any longer, neither we nor the people affected by the problem we are discussing at these times. And we give it to the government: government, it stays, it is put to work, and that once it makes decisions, it is to say, do politics, governments. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.163.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mrs Carmen de Rivera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.164.0	Thank you, President. The motion brought to this House by the Commu Puerde Group seeks the approval of the creation of a label, as has been explained, for just i quality work for the hospitality and catering industry. Obtaining this seal is subject to compliance with a number of requirements to be met by companies in the sector, conditions that are imposed in view of the multiple abuses that have resulted in some aspects of labour reform that have enshrined the outsourcing of staffing and subcontracting by other companies, together with the prevalence of the company agreement on the sector agreement. And so, we have the perfect storm in which the... in this case, the collective of the people who make the hotel rooms. Indeed, countless abuses have occurred all these years, as in the case of housekeepers, but also in other sectors. Lower wages – say that up to 40_per_cent less –, work at a standstill, neglect of working health conditions – with a special impact on work overload – and a longet cetera and different casuistics. We know that trade unions, business organisations and labour inspection are aware that these bad practices must be stopped. Employers consider it an unfair competition for those companies that comply with labour law and do not abuse the subject of subcontracting; the unions, which denounced it from the first day and the Labour Administration, which sees, sanctions and corrects all these conducts, which have of course done so this year, only hear the data that the adviser gave the other day in the inquiry. We share many of the points proposed as conditions for the acquisition of this seal, which are compliance with the Occupational Risk Prevention Act, the absence of a history of very serious violations, of course equal pay for men and women for equal work. Requirements already met by many companies, it must be said, and, if not, the labour inspection intervenes, sanctions and corrects. But there are a number of measures that would also be indicators of this seal in which, in our view, there is a desire to intervene in the sector, going beyond not only legislation but also interfering in social dialogue. This is why our amendments to paragraph 1(b), which sets out as one of the requirements that central services should not be outsourced to third companies, which we consider to exceed the limit of what the negotiators of the collective agreement themselves have wanted and which has been embodied in the inter-confederal agreement of Catalonia and, more specifically, in the collective agreement of the hospitality sector, in particular in Article 60 thereof, where they already set out the main claim and we believe that the subject of this motion, which is, no more or less, that all workers who do so in subcontracted companies receive the salary of the hospitality industry. It is true that those companies which at that time have outsourced these activities will not apply to them this article, nor its entry into force, but it is a step. It's a step, Mrs. Lopez. A step like the one taken in the AIC, in the Inter-Confederal Agreement of Catalonia which allows for a greater organization, trade union dialogue throughout the subcontracting chain and leads multi-service companies to the application of the sectoral agreement of the activity, at least. The creation of this seal may also be a step forward and that is why we will vote in favour of virtually all the points except for point 1.b. And with regard to point 2 we will not vote in favour on the understanding that it imposes a restriction on the recruitment of the Generalitat in the terms on which it is drafted. What would happen if the president, a counselor or some general manager had to spend the night in Zaragoza or Madrid? Could the President of the Generalitat spend the night in Waterloo? Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.165.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're going ahead; now it's the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group, and on his behalf, Mr. Jordi Albert has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.166.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, workers and workers of Parliament and the Kellys, who are also accompanying us today and, as my company has said before, you are an example of struggle, continue to be an example of struggle and you have put a problem from the table that many times has been totally buried. And, therefore, from here, from the Republic Group we also want to thank you for your pocket, not only in your daily work but also in your social struggle for the better of your working conditions. Thank you. Well, we are faced with a problem that, in effect, is asking all of us, but above all I think we need to determine the competition mark; the competition mark where these problems can really be solved. And the competition mark badly is not this Parliament but rather the Congress of Deputies. Two labor reforms, that of 2010 and that of 2012; one of the PSOE and the other of the PP. Two labor reforms that have allowed a de-pauperation and a setback in the rights of workers and workers in this country. But not only that– not just that–, we have also seen how with the economic crisis there was one more expanse to implement measures in the working conditions that clearly– clearly– were much under what was just and possible dignified. "Kellys have a billing average of 2.5_euros per room. The "Kellys work..., can work between eight and eleven hours days and without rest during their working day to end up between said and twenty-two rooms a day. The « kellys, in high season, can come to be twenty-i-sis days resulting working without a day of rest. They have to take medication because their work involves repeated movements to the body and they have a very large, very high physical and psychological wear. And today we are carrying..., today is the door, on behalf of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, a proposal. But this motion for a resolution, which we appreciate the dialogue and the negotiation, has been a motion for a resolution that we have tried to improve at all times since the Republican Group, and we have accepted a couple of points, in concrete terms, in point 1.4 and point 1.5, and we have also managed to reach agreement on a compromise in point 1 and point 1.6. Unfortunately, we did not agree to point 2, where we did agree; however, as the decision had to be taken by the person who had presented the message, that it was Ciutadans, finally, Ciutadans did not agree to make the transaction, so the agreement to which we were the commons and others, therefore, could not be formalized, that it was on the line that we cannot ensure that it is contracted only from the right and quality working segell to those enterprises that the holder has, because we would violate any right to free competition and equal opportunities, and therefore we would violate any European directive and also internal legislation. Therefore, we cannot accept this second point. Unfortunately, I believe that our dream, the dream we proposed by the commons, was as good as it could be. Now, a number of things have been said here, and in fact, I was surprised that the defence of the motion for a resolution has been closer to an inquiry than to a defence of the motion for a resolution, where we have not really entered the motto of the right and quality work. He asks directly to the Government and he asks directly to the Councillor. But it turns out that our government and, in concrete terms, the advisory services and the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families have very legislatively linked hands in order to be able to intervene. I will remind you that, in our environment, in what we can do, that it is an inspection, during the first two months of this year, the deities we carry in 2018, have been made up to 7,348 orders of inspection service – up to 7,348 orders of inspection service. This is work and it's a lot of work, and it has to be worth it. What we can't do is come here and start loading from the corners of a government that doesn't have the full skill of a government, which is the government of the state, and should start by repealing labor reforms and should also put from the table the reform of the state of workers in its article 42, and it doesn't. Article 42 regulates subcontracting. And this is one of the hard problems we have on the table. And that has to be done, and unfortunately, we'd like to... [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And that's why we fight. In this chamber they can't do it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.167.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.168.0	Therefore, we ask Congress, we go there and fight because the rights of these workers will be enforced.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.169.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.170.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.171.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of the deputy Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.172.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, Members, Members, Attendants to the Plenary. « Kellys, a special greeting and support to your struggle, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Catalonia has a top-notch tourist activity, and this must involve a top-notch objective policy, which generates a social and business consensus. The country, through tourism, must be a European and global referent, with the projection of identity values and quality values, driven by innovation and excellence in the sector. Developed from an integral perspective, environmentally, economically, socially and culturally, tourism has to be and is a great generator of occupation, with strong and competitive capacity, and always having the opposites ahead. The tourism sector in Catalonia is an important engine of economic growth. However, there are shortcomings in the sector that must be taken into account and denounced, especially when these deficiencies directly affect workers. As with the text of the motion put forward, the creation of a just and quality work secret, under audits and which has already been endorsed by the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, must allow it to be old for the rights of workers, above all, workers, in the sector. It will also, among others, for equal pay between men and women, a just claim that has to be claimed to become a reality, not only in the field of hospitality and tourism, but also in any field. In view of the lack of normative competences of the Administration, it is necessary to enhance the dialogue and collective bargaining, driven by the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, in the Board of Labour Relations of Catalonia ; a board of labour relations which, as foreseen by the Board of Governors, has to approve its work plan, has to promote the territorialization of its commissions and has to be strengthened as a space of social concertation between the Government and social and economic agents. Moreover, the Board of Governors is also committed to the reinforcement of the Labour Inspectorate for the equality and improvement of working conditions and the establishment of mechanisms for the fight against precariousness and unfair competition of some enterprises; it aims to directly affect the working conditions of workers and, above all, workers in the tourism sector. With the deployment of these actions promoted by the government of President Torra, they must be able to improve and stop some of the practices that involve the tourism sector as regards hospitality and restoration, complemented by the actions that detail the motion and that involve an explicit diffusion and promotion to give to know the initiative of the right and quality working secret and all the enterprises that are registered there and that therefore give compliment to the requirements to form part of it. It is necessary to do so, however, and to detail the fact that we pointed out before related to the lack of normative competences of the Administration, and, more specifically, to do so in terms of subcontracting, since, as you know, it is Article 42 of the Staff Regulations that regulates it. In order to solve the problems that exist in the field of workers in the tourism sector, we need to change this article, as well as 84.2, on the explanatory priority of the agreement of workers, and the Generality and Parliament of Catalonia do not have, here, the normative capacity to make it possible, they have only the capacity to promote, promote the social dialogue between employers and workers, active policies, inspection of work and prevention of occupational risks, as well as as the commitment to continue to do the Plan of Government. Catalonia longs to be a state and longs for many reasons, not only to stop having political prisoners and exiles, but also to have all the possible tools to facilitate more opportunities of work and better conditions, derived from the ability to legislate in labor matters. Now it has no capacity to have more resources, to decide on the increases in public spending, the better of its effectiveness and its orientation towards growth. But this struggle against the republic is also a struggle against the right of workers and workers from all sectors and, obviously, also of the inn and restoration. Before this post, let us vote in favour of all the proposals that will be put forward for workers' and workers' rights, and let us also support everything that improves the working conditions of the tourism sector, with an implementation of this proposal of the right and quality working standards. And, despite the catastrophic message that we have listened to from the group proposing, if our vote is favourable, it must be because the government does not look at them, but it will also look at the rights of the workers and the workers and it will put in place and it will put in place the measures that are relevant. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.173.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his position he has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.174.0	In the first place, to thank that, if today we are talking about the segell, it is because there was, a few years ago, some workers, the cleaners, the "kellys, who decided to self-organize themselves and say enough to their high levels of exploitation. As many times today, it is not the action, here in Parliament, but the action of social movements in the street, those that mark you the full path of struggles. We also want to thank the proposed group, which we are talking about today. For us, it was a matter of the least; but all that even though it may still mean conquering rights for the workers and the workers, we will vote in favour of it, cannot be in any other way. Even so, we also want to emphasize that the incorporation not so much of the items, but basically of the transactions with the two groups that form today's government, supposes also to lower part of the content. For one band, because the space in which the seal will be decided will no longer be directly the department in collaboration, but it will be the Board of Labour Relations, and for another band, because the way in which the seal will be incorporated into the public contract is different in the initial draft than in the final draft that we will approve and, above all, also, because that obligation to move together a guide of good practices is eliminated. We want, yes, to focus on a question that is fundamental: beyond that this means an advance, we must continue to struggle for the rights of workers in the inn sector, placing the cause of their problem. And the cause is a combination, for a band, that there is no legal limitation practically to subcontracting, with which supposes the application preference of the agreement of companies over the agreement of sector, that it is a very simple thing, that there are companies that can have wages, wages inferior to the agreement of the sector. This led to a call that hotel properties do not directly contract workers and subcontractors. And it's true that we don't have any skills, that they won't lead us not to fight, but we do have some and, on what we have, that basically it's the Labour Inspectorate, we think that it can also act and it can also face the struggle with regard to the precariousness of the Kellys. We propose that it is further developed, because some are developing, two campaigns by the Department of Work, through the Inspection. The first, a specific one about the illegal cessation of workers and workers in the inn sector, can be seen as a good part of this supposed subcontracting, is really a willingness to work. And the second, a specific on prevention of occupational risks that comes to show that with the working rhythm that they impose on workers, is permanently not fulfilling the regulations. This will be the way; but, above all, the way will be the one that marked us the "kellys continuing to struggle. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.175.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The word has the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.176.0	Thank you very much, President. First of all, convey the recognition and respect of our political and personal formation to the Kellys. The story of my family is also full of "kellys, admirable women who came out of Asturias, went to other places, others had to unfold, give the best of themselves to pull their families away, and therefore we can only express ourselves with respect, admiration and consideration. With the same conviction that this first message has been translated, I must say that the situation and the better of the conditions of all of them, historically, has proved that it has never, ever advanced as a zero sum game, moving a hostile tone – that we modestly believe that some points of the motion follow – from the entrepreneurs of the hostelry and the tourism and the restoration in general. Because behind these people, in many of them there are also stories of personal surpassing, effort and sacrifice. And we understand that, as a result, there are some points that we will vote in favour and others that we will abstain. We will vote in favour of the point that refers to occupational risks. We will vote in favour of defending the same pay between men and women. We will vote in favour of contracting vulnerable collections. And we will abstain from those points that we understand are based on excessive intervention, which, in absolute terms, helps to create jobs. This is the message that we wanted to convey and that we believe we need to be able to recover ancient rhetorics of confrontation between sectors. Because, once again, history has shown us that only through cooperation between entrepreneurs and workers – yes, they are deeply demanding, I insist on working conditions, working risks, salary equipping, etc. – the progress is achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.177.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to pronounce on the papers, has the word, again, Mrs Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.178.0	Thank you, President. When you sleep in a hotel, do you wonder how your workers live? We cannot understand that some parliamentary groups, such as the PSC, question some of the points of the motion. We're saying..., and what we're asking is that a central business of the company, proper to the company, not be outsourced. It is proven by judgements that this is illegal transfer of workers. [[Greetings.]] What problem do they have with the granting of a badge and recognition to hotel companies that bet on fair and high - quality work? What do you have against the fact that the Kellys are part of the staff of the hotels that define wages? Comrades of the PSC, tell Mr Sánchez to read the articles of opinion drawn up by Pol Gibert, his colleague, and to amend at once Article 42 of the Staff Regulations, which does not limit itself to legalizing labour fraud, which is what is being done. Gentlemen of Citizens, first of all, instead of going to Andalusia to teach fishing to a community that has been fishing for two-thousand years, it would be very good if you stayed here to do a job rights course and assumed that no worker, living where he lives, was born where he was born and voted for whom he does not deserve to charge two-thousand euros to clean their bed. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.179.0	Congresswoman, I also remind you that this return is to position yourself and you should position yourself on the items.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.180.0	Gentlemen of Esquerra, you are in the Government: you must preach by example. To vote against the stamp..., and it is true that they have had the will that we put, instead of « compulsoryness, « preferably and it has not been possible to do it because with Citizens we have not arrived..., but it is to play the game to the hotel lobbies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.181.0	Congresswoman, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.182.0	Well, that's it. [[The joker laughs.]] [[Greetings. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.183.0	Say'm, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.184.0	Thank you, President. To ask for a separate vote on points 1.c, and f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.185.0	I mean, from 1.1, yeah? [[Pause.]] 1.1.c, and 1.1.f, right? All right. [[Rafel Bruguera Battle asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Bruguera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.186.0	In contradiction, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.187.0	We do one thing, Mr. Bruguera. If there are more separate voting petitions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.188.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.189.0	...we'll pick them up and then I'll give him the word. [[Jordi Albert and Knight ask to speak.]] Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.190.0	We ask for a separate vote on point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.191.0	All right. Any other separate voting petitions? [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.192.0	Yeah. Separate vote on point 1.1.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.193.0	All right. Yeah? [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.194.0	Yeah. For reading, before the vote, point 1.1.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.195.0	1.1.b. Okay. [[Pause.]] All right. Is there another separate motion for a vote? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Mr Fernández, you asked me to vote separately from all these points. Can you vote en bloc? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Perfect. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, it would be the block vote of point 1.1.c, 1.1.e, 1.1.f. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Do other groups object? Don't you? [[Pause.]] You can vote it in block, can't you? [[Pause.]] All right. So yes, Mr. Bruguera. He was asking for the word..., for contradictions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.196.0	Yes, Mr. President. Very quickly. Mrs López, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has put things in my mouth that I have not said, that we will vote against points that we will vote absolutely in favour. In another way, we will vote in favour of all points, except point 2, which has nothing to do with the work and working conditions of the Kellys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.197.0	All right. Thank you, Mr. Burguera. Let us now proceed to the vote. We shall vote first on point 1.1.b, which was asked to be read before voting on it. Ask Secretary Pérez to read this point. Secretaries, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.198.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. " 1.1.b. The non-externalization of the central services in the hotel business, such as the pee chambers, to third companies. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If the deputy needs the cap, read it. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It is point 1.1. : « The creation of the right and quality working secret between its indicators, the b– which is what I have just read– « the non-externalization of the central services in the hotel activity, as are the chambreres de pis, to third companies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.199.0	All right. Thank you, secretaries. Let's now proceed to the vote on this point, precisely point 1.1.b. The vote begins. This item has been approved [[some applause]] ..., this point was approved by 84 votes to 41, with 4 abstentions. Now yes, if they fly. [[Greetings.]] Let us now proceed to the vote on points 1.1.c, 1.1.e and 1.1.f. All together, these three points. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. These points are approved by 129 votes in favour, against and against, that is, unanimously. Let's move on to vote point 1.1. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I'm sorry, there wasn't much more to separate from the block of '1 now. Let's proceed to the vote on Point 2. We're voting point number two. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 13 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. Let us now – now yes – vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia against sexual abuse of children]] [[401-00005/12]] A vote on this motion, and as I informed you yesterday, we will now read a statement by the Catalan Parliament against child sexual abuse. Ask the secretary, Mr. Campdepadrós, to read the statement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.200.0	All right, Mr. President. « Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia against sexual abuse of children. This week two dates for the recognition and visibility of children's rights have coincided: Sunday, November 20, was the World Day of Children's Rights; Sunday, the 19th, was the World Day for the Prevention of Child Sexual Abuse. In Catalonia, despite the lack of data on this issue, all students point out that at least one child or child has suffered sexual abuse before completing these years. From these, a 60_per_cent will never get any help, and 90_per_cent will not say anything until adulthood. The 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and regulations in force in Catalonia and Spain in the field of childhood recognize the right of children and adolescents to be protected from any form of violence, including sexual abuse, and the right of public authorities to take measures to ensure that this protection remains effective. The Catalonian Parliament has approved on numerous occasions proposed and motions to address, in a comprehensive manner, the struggle against all types of abuse and aggression against children in our country, including sexual ones. There have been initiations that have always been formulated from the perspective of the infant as the subject of rights. Unfortunately, however, reality does not improve. Among many other reasons, because you can't break the taboo that weighs when dealing with this issue in our society, because in 85_percent of the cases the abuser is someone from the child's family background. I must break this taboo and, as the institution compromises in the fight against this chess that destroys the lives of children, with this declaration the Parliament wants to contribute to bringing out of the dark a reality that exists in our barrels and our families. In the same way that it has fought against male violence, the Parliament of Catalonia is committed to working to change the private perception of sexual violence against infants. Parliament expressed its solidarity with victims of child sexual abuse, and the need to be aware of the seriousness of these situations and the difficulties experienced by victims at the time of reporting these types of crimes. Thus, it urges the various executive and legislative powers, and also the judiciary, to review standards, protocols and circuits to improve prevention, detection, intervention and recovery of victims of this type of abuse. Palau del Parlament, November 22, 2018. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.201.0	Thank you, secretaries; thank you, deputies, deputies. We suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.202.0	Good afternoon. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the consequences of the rules imposed on financial markets in accordance with public policies]] [[302-000031/12]] Let us resume the plenary with the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the consequences of the rules imposed on financial markets in accordance with public policies. Presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, to expose it has the word the deputy lady Maria Sirvent. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.203.0	Well, good afternoon. At the inquiry that we did before this young man, we demonstrated and proved a series of realities based on concrete examples and data. In the first place, we showed that the supposed growth of the economy does not have some positive consequences for the popular and working majority, because the economic benefits end in the pockets of the richest, which continue to earn money at the expense of precaritating our lives. In fact, by means of concrete data, we have shown that the majority of people and workers work harder than we did years ago and cover less, because companies have chosen to gain competitiveness at the expense of our labour rights. We also showed that women and young people are paying the bill and that if we consider gender differences, all indicators systematically show us a more unfavourable situation for women: less income, more risk of exclusion and poorer. We have also been able to prove that conditional assumptions for fiscal objectives of debt, deficit and expenditure that mark our financial markets, the European Union and, lastly, the State, through the 2012 Law of Presupposition, will not be assumptions that place life and sovereignty at the centre – neither education sovereignty, residential nor health care – and that they will not be assumptions that deserve the majority of workers in this country, because even so they will not be able to reverse the details of the protagonists and consolidations for the succeeding governments, taking into account these constraints that mark our fiscal objectives. Finally, we showed that the Government of the Generality is absolutely committed to the FLA and that it does not have the capacity to control autonomous finances. In view of these facts, we stated that the Government was not willing to go further than these fiscal constraints, that it was not willing to reverse the retail trade and that it was not willing to reverse privatizations every growing time and that it had decided to manage the little autonomy left in this Parliament. Mr Aragonès also told us the other day that on 18 September a letter from the State was issued threatening the Generality with a new financial intervention if measures are not taken to correct this deficit deviation. And we ask ourselves what more intervention the State can make, apart from intervening with the Generality through the obligation to send monthly reports to the State, to ask permission to counter any type of debt or to hold back accounts on a constant basis by the Government. Every day they scan us a little more, and we go along with it, and there are a lot of people that we live with. We have also made it clear that this has very concrete consequences; we have seen this in the response to this threat, which has ended with a box lock before the hour and, therefore, with a content of the expenditure already planned, because, in order to disobey what is approved in this Parliament on the basis of state impositions, it seems that we do not have so many problems. For us, we have already said, the independence claim must be an opportunity to overcome this mark and improve the living conditions of the majority of the people and workers. And we repeat to them: we have not come to Parliament to manage the wreaths of an autonomy that is absolutely intervened and that serves as an instrument for the assurance of capitalism. But today it is up to us to move from criticism to the proposal and, therefore, it is up to us to explain what the CUP would do, and, therefore, it is up to us to explain our political proposal to reverse this situation of dependence and lack of sovereignty. With this young man we propose measures that must be developed from a rupturist logic and disobedient but that help us to move forward with a transformative project of the production system and a model that links production with social and material needs and thus allows human development; a product model that puts people's lives at the centre and therefore responds to the rights and needs of the popular classes, which need to always be in line with the processes of reproduction of life. We must bear in mind that, in a scene of rupture with the 78th rule and with everything that this represents and, therefore, in a scene of national construction and social transformation, this we cannot do from law to law, it will not be produced with a magical transit, and therefore it will have personal, political and collectible costs, and we must do a process of national construction of a vast abyss. For this very same reason, we, on the basis of this rupturist strategy, understand that it is necessary to count on the maximum support of political and social actors, but we also believe that it is necessary to contemplate in a precise and simple way a comprehensive work of popular recovery of sovereignties – energy, food, residential, health care. And that is why, with this objective, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to have a strong public sector; it is absolutely necessary to disobey these fiscal objectives imposed on us by the European Union; that we implement measures of redistribution of wealth and that we promote an internal demand linked to welfare and occupation, and therefore that we improve to work for the working conditions of workers, and that we also need to create a public bank.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.204.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word now, to defend the papers presented on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.205.0	Thank you. Well, basically to explain also that we have submitted three papers to the motion that we were presented in this case from the CUP. The first is to introduce a point that we have also discussed well before, about the need that if we really want to push public policies that reverse the detail, then a real tax reform is needed, in this case at the level of Catalonia. Second of all, we also told them that when you talk about the debt, right? And to know with detail what the generality's debt is and in this case also, so, if there is any part of this debt that is illegitimate or not, we think that there have also been different civic initiations, in this case, of the audit of the debt and that we also want to put into value. And then there is also a point to discuss in this Parliament a matter which is topical and which we also appreciate having accepted the point, which is about the return of payments, in this case of the external payments to the 2013 and 2014 working days, which are the year 2019 and the year 2020, which is what the representatives of the different public service unions are asking for in this case. We, in this case, from Catalonia to Comú We can give support to the movement, above all because we share the experience. Surely in literality, therefore, some of our points have been written differently, but we do believe that there are some issues that have also been part of the public debate and the economic debate these past years, right? , especially for what it does to the deficit objective of the different administrations: the General Administration of the State, the autonomous communities and the joint ventures. Here, on the deficit targets, there is also one element I think we can denounce, which is that they are absolutely arbitrary. And they are especially arbitrary in the same way that it makes the deficit target that in this case has located the State or placed the PP government in particular to the different autonomous communities, when they are these autonomous communities that provide most public services such as, for example, education and sanitation. And basically the PP had a strategy to retrace the deficit to the autonomous communities, because it was the ones that basically retaliated to public services, right? Deficit targets that have been incomplete, huh? , have repeatedly been incomplete not only by the autonomous communities, but also by the state. It is to say that in a context of retailing, I would say even of retailing saves, that there has been a reduction of expenditure on the part of the public administration very large, what could have happened if these objectives of deficit that he fixed in this case obviously had been strictly completed, right? , to what the European Union forced in this case, but that the Law of Presupposition approved for Convergence and the People's Party... – I always remember the fact of Convergence, because sometimes there are some oblivions, but that has caused a very significant decrease as many workers and public workers as in this case, I would say, even of demolition of some of the public services that still and still have not recovered. Another point of the motion that we also share is the need to put the model of competitiveness back together based on precariousness, right? The other day also published some data referring to Catalonia, which is that 43.7 of the Catalans signed more than one contract in 2017, is to say, or still, almost half of the people of Catalonia signed more than one contract last year, so it has had to change their jobs or even two contracts, and 120,000 Catalans and Catalans have signed more than four contracts in 2017, it is to say, with a degree of rotation and, therefore, of precariousness elsewhere, that we think that it is an authentic commodity and that it is also the fruit of a certain model that came also marked much for what was the labor reform, in this case also the PP of Congeria, no? And I go back to what I said before, talking about working conditions. I believe that the debate about the extra pay of public workers is a debate of topicality, which is very relevant. There is a vacancy called or even two waves called in this case for public servants and workers. The generality has given of middle, more or less, three thousand euros for worker and public worker; I insist, three thousand euros, eh? , which are not scarce resources. We are talking directly about Generality workers and concerted centres, or even workers working in university centres, of a total volume of 300,000 people in Catalonia, which the Generality has so far been using as a bank. And, therefore, we also believe that this is a subject on which to focus, to work and to give an answer, in this case we understand that positive, to the requests made by the workers and workers of the Generality. And finally to say that we also share the will, therefore, that in this case the Catalan Institute of Finance becomes a public bank, that it is also one of the requests that we have historically made, and that, therefore, we also insist on it. And here too we need to press not only the Catalan Government, but also the Government of the State, because it is the one who has the opportunity to give the banking license because the Catalan Institute of Finance can act as the public bank, which I hope is what we can achieve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.206.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to fix his position, has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.207.0	President, Counsellor, Members of Parliament, what this House wants to present to us is a series of measures aimed at increasing the participation of wages in disposable income. We have to say that we think that the liberal and progressive model of economy, a system based on the defence of individual freedom and on concepts such as respect for the legal framework and established procedures, is what allows us all to remain free and equal and has allowed the success of the welfare state, the best historical period of humanity from any point of view. On the other hand, it means that the measures that go to the young man's side bring us back to other times, which are better in models..., which have proved to be absolutely unviable. There is nothing more to remember than the weakness of these in Europe in the past century. Or at the present time the disaster originated in countries such as Venice, Cuba, Nicaragua or even North Korea. It is completely retrograde to think that measures such as generalised nationalizations or not limiting public expenditure and that this growth without control are the solutions that in the 21st century we can give to the problems that arise. Criminalizing investments, which are the basis of economic and social growth, which are responsible for the dynamism of open societies, which are at the expense of education, which enable competitiveness gains and which are actually needed because they increase workers' wages in the global share of economic growth, is not the solution. Nor is it a solution to criminalise investors threatening not to pay for the debts we have contracted; it does not seem the best way to attract investments, human capital, welfare and prosperity to Catalonia. Pretending to convert the Catalan Institute of Finance into a new national caisse d'estalvis is a complete deproposal. They don't look like they're after anything. For a band, remember the questionable pocket carried to spa historically for the institute. Scanning like Spanair's financing is an exhibition, painful both for people who went into the dark and for bad money. And also remember the attempt to turn it into the central protobank of the unborn republic. You can also remember the trips of amagatotis looking for finance to places as exotic as the Xina. Now we want to be like Maduro's Venice? Do we also want to develop cryptodivides like petro? , which has become a complete failure even though they have the largest oil reserves in the world. Is this the model we want? [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] Here are the news that refers to the respect of how you went looking for funding for other places. For another band, here in Spain we've already had a public banker's account: the caixas d'estalvi. The model of the estalvi boxes imploded with the crisis of the financial sector. These funded entities have become a focus of corruption and disgrace. And, truth be told, we don't want to go back to this situation. The crisis will finance the joint venture of Espanya, especially in Catalonia, was starring in the caixes d'estalvi. In the boards of directors sit those who decide who, like, when and where to turn, and these have names and surnames: the famous "socioconvergence" and the tripartite. Public management of financial entities is not by definition better than private, on the contrary, as we have recently seen is manifestly better. The current technical functions of the Catalan Institute of Finance believe that they are already sufficient to boost economic growth and the creation of quality employment. And, in any case, it is a question of budgetary endowment on the part of the Generality; it is a question of sorting and prioritizing where investments are made. Finally, a bet on the financial markets, as well as other markets serve for one purpose, to make the formation of the price more efficient. Any other system is by definition more inefficient, and it ends up feeling, as we have proven, more unjust. Ladies and gentlemen, the pact is served, that is, the commitments are fulfilled. It is demanded that we fail to fulfil the concrete obligations with investors, which are not abstract, but, in many cases, honorable couples and mothers of families who in their day entrusted their students buying, among other acts, good emotions for the Generality; people who gave their trust and to whom they promised to become principal and interested. Failure to fulfil these obligations would have a completely negative reading that would take us away from the possibility of accessing the financing of markets for a long and long time. And the funding block that would assume for our community: negative impact on the welfare state, negative impact on the reduction of public services. Is that really what we want? The fact that the FLA now allows us to renew the debt in an automatic way does not have to make us forget that the debts have to be paid, and that debt can still be a medium can never be a fi. It is our responsibility to control that the Administration does not harm the resources placed in its abyss. We can't afford to always look at short ends. We need to think about our children and our nets, so what you're trying to do is make them completely mortgaged for life. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.208.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is then the turn, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mrs. Alicia Romero's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.209.0	Good afternoon, Vice President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, well, the candidate for Popular Unity makes us a motion for a motion that I think if we follow the title, the title is a part of the motion, right? , because it says: "consequences of the standards imposed on the financial markets. Or that there are some of the proposals that are consequential or that attempt to address the consequences of this, but there are others that I would say are consequences of the policy that the Government of the Generality has made, right? Because when you make proposals about taxation, so you have little to see the financial markets, but we have had a government that, for many years, has not listened to the petitions of the CUP or the Socialist Group, for example, right? And so, so, yes, there are some things that are the consequence of the financial markets, and others, I think, of a weak fiscal policy. Here we are – this morning, we haven't talked, have we? – we agree, and I think we agree with you, that we should demand a greater effort from those who have more, who have more heretics, who earn more and who contaminate more. And that seems... it's easy to hear, isn't it? We need to work harder on those who haven't. Because we have been striving for a long time for middle classes and workers, for public employees, since it is also being discussed here in a common thread, and therefore I believe, therefore, that after asking for more effort perhaps to the most vulnerable, to whom they believe less, it would also be good to do so in the other line. In fact, we approved this morning that the higher IRPF trams will be pushed. Well, we're hoping to see tax measures and finance in the law. And we also expect you to make progress on what you do to the green tax, as you also say this proposal. Because the Climate Change Act was approved in which we promised that one of your taxes would come into force by the year 2019. And I don't think they're in time anymore. But it would be worth it if we were to punish those who contaminate the most, wouldn't it? And so, so, in this, the government would have to speed up a little. It's important we talk about the tickets. That's what makes Ciutadans a bit of a mandra, especially when they talk about spending all day long in Ciutadans, isn't it? They come here with a young man, education, social protection... all that's worth money. That's all to be paid for. How do you think you'll pay if you just say you'll lower taxes? I don't know. Potagia magic? Or is it that..., it's not..., it's to say, if a desire to increase spending and social investment has to grow the tickets for different lives. But you do not want to make the deficit objective more flexible, nor the expenditure rule, nor do you want to push taxes. Listen to me, so explain to me 'ho! Because the formula to me doesn't leave me. Perhaps I don't know enough about numbers, but I think you should also explain more to those we are asking for the most effort from whom you have, the most gain or the most contaminant, which is surely the least affected by the crisis. And, therefore, I think that an effort to all, like society, we could ask for. We will also give recollection to some items that have been accepted from..., about, basically, Catalonia in Comú Pode, and, in particular, to the proposal to pay them, right? Because it is true that there are a lot of resources, it is 1,100_million euros, but we also believe, therefore, that it is just as it is beginning to return these resources. This part of your son is gone a few years ago. And, above all, because we're listening at a later stage, which seems to be trying to come to an agreement with the doctors. And the agreements that seem to be on the table are a lot of millions of euros. And so, I'd like to know, so it's not that we don't want to prioritize it, just miss it, huh? , salvation has to be improved. But, of course, we'd like to know what we're talking about, because when they say they don't have enough resources, then they get them quickly to negotiate with the doctors. Home, we'd love to have everyone on the table, and then we could share the situation, right? And then, then, then, this: we think that sometimes the proposals you are making are not just heard. I, lastly, about the ICF. We have often approved the creation of a public bank or the conversion of the ICF into a public investment bank. It's been many times, we haven't made much progress. We also did a work group in the previous legislature. So many good present us in the terms of norma days this bill of law. I don't have much confidence, but I suppose the government... – does that. [[The speaker makes a head gesture]] Mr. Aragonès – I don't know if he's going to present it or not, the case is that it's true that they depend on the license you have to give us, but I think it could go forward and work. We will support them as we have always done, and we hope that some of the points presented by the Popular Unity Candidacy will be approved. Still, you didn't get much luck when you were partners of Junts for Catalonia, the PDECAT, Esquerra, Convergence. I don't know if they don't have that much influence now, but in any case, we'll raise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.210.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.211.0	Thank you. The escó estant. Thank you, President, Vice President, Members of Parliament. Creating wealth and creating jobs. This is the most effective way to correct inequalities and redistribute wealth, creating wealth above all. And the proposal presented to us by the CUP, precisely, is contrary. It doesn't go in the sense of creating wealth, it goes in the sense of, like at least, destroying wealth; I don't know whether to create poor or not, surely also, but it goes in the sense of absolutely contrary. And the proposals that they make to us are not new proposals, we already know them. The only thing that surprises us is the enthusiasm of the Socialist Party with the proposals made by the CUP, proposals that go, for example, to eliminate the private sector from the provision of public services, when the collaboration between the public sector and the private sector is fundamental in the development of the welfare society. We'd rather talk about the welfare society than the welfare state. The State has to be to cover what society is not able to cover, but what is essential is that society is able to generate and create well-being. They also propose to us things that coincide, of course, with the Socialist Party: disobeying the top of the deficit. Surely these policies are the best allies of the benches, precisely, of the benches. Because, of course, if a man makes a deficit, he has to go through with the debt to pay for the deficit, obviously. And that's benefit and business for the bank. And we are not against it, of which we are against disobeying the deficit topall, and therefore generating more debt than is strictly essential. They're offering us more taxes, too, for a change. This isn't the first time we're talking about it. They're offering us the public bank. It's a repeated song that we've been feeling and feeling for a long time and years – and we're feeling. What I would suggest is that as they continue to talk about the development and creation of the public bank, in accounts of weakening the Catalan Institute of Finance in the support of the companies of Catalonia, so at least we strengthen it; because while the public bank does not come up, it will not arrive, as at least the companies find an acceptable support. And tell us again to stop paying the debt. That is to say, we are more in need, we need debt and we also need to stop paying the debt that we consider illegitimate. It's like, no, it's a no-out-of-the-way wagon. We can only give support to that point that refers to the return of the public workers' payments of the years 2013 and 2014: completing the commitments. Complying with the commitments would mean...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.212.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.213.0	... pay now, where the rest of the year remains, a 10_percent of those payments, that this is the compromise the government reached and that it did not comply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.214.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Congresswoman Eva Baró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.215.0	Okay. Thank you, President. Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors and Deputies, in full economic recovery after a crisis instigated for the financial markets, from the Republican Group, therefore, we share a good part of the concern expressed by the companies of the CUP. We are ahead of the challenge of taking advantage of this fabric to try to build a more balanced, more sustainable, more equitable economy. Also, this debate seems to ask for a few considerations that are often omitted. First consideration. No one who is least well-informed casts doubt..., can cast doubt that Catalonia..., Catalonia generates wealth. Catalonia has a healthy and growing economy over the euro area, over the same Spanish state. And, also, for the time being, this is not being noticed in the pockets of the citizens and the workers and the workers, who are the most affected. Only a given: while the CPI increased between 2008 and 2016 by 12.6_per_cent, during the same period wages only grew by 3.6; a very high weight that is more accentuated by the fringes of poorer workers. Second consideration. The Government is aware of this situation and works to lay the foundations for an inclusive, sustainable economic growth that guarantees the quality, efficiency and quality of life. In fact, the period 2016 and 2017, with Oriol Junqueras at the head of the Economics Council – the current political press of the Spanish State, for sure – was a particularly fruitful period because it marked the path of this strategy. It reduced the deficit from 2.9 to 0.9_per_cent, approved assumptions that allocated 74_per_cent to social expenditure, won new social rights such as guaranteed income from citizenship largely thanks to the increase in admissions, more than 1,200_million euros from tax changes, from our taxes driven by the Generality and from the fight against tax fraud. Third consideration. Unfortunately, the generality doesn't have enough money to take over all of this. How can they grow, how can they make a remarkable effort to straighten the expense, to optimize the resources they don't have enough money to take on the legitimate expenses and demands of the citizenry and the skills and responsibilities they should have? So they're different factors. There is not only a galloping fiscal deficit that is estimated at EUR 16,000 million per year, but also thanks to the action, in the best of the neglected cases, of a Spanish state that has dedicated itself, for example, to suspending new sources of the Generality's entrances: the tax on environmental risk radiotoxic, the tax on large commercial establishments, the tax on bank deposits. And that's not all, he's done more things. The Spanish State contributes, for example, to the cancellation of the debts contracted with the Generality: more than 7,600_million euros already accumulated, among the incompliments of the third additional provision of the State, of the infra-financing of the Law of Dependency, of the Mossos, etc. Fourth and final consideration. If this is not enough, the Generality has to complete for you a fiscal objective that is completely rigid, inflexible, arbitrary and unjust, if it does not want the situation to go wrong, objectives that directly prevent them from being able to meet the full extent of the responsibilities and competences that correspond to them. Without going any further, the deficit target for 2019 is 0.1_per_cent, which means having 688_million euros less for the assumption of the coming year. In this context, disobeying the topall of the deficit or things for the non-resolvable style, on the contrary, would not suppose a better of the situation in the short term, but would imply having to face measures still more drastic and restrictive, would chronicle the prohibition of the Generality to be able to finance itself in the international financial markets, would prolong the impossibility of returning the payments of 2013, 2014... It would be worse the cure than the malaltia. In conclusion, it is urgent to get out of this block finance as soon as possible. It is a frustrating, indignant and unworthy mark of Catalonian citizenship. In any case, pointing out the Generalitat as the main responsible for the current economic status at the state level seems to us to be an outposted force perspective. So much for that, maybe it'd be a lot easier to sort things out. And to focus on it, it doesn't seem to us that it's the best way to help achieve goals that you and we share. Well, for the arguments that I have explained, well, because we don't see any ideas or viable solutions that they put forward, we would only vote in favour of the points that refer to the productive structure, the working conditions of the workers and the amendments to the Tax and Finance Act of 2019. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.216.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Deputy Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.217.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, counselors, deputies, deputies, good late. In this case, also following what Congresswoman Baró said – in fact, we could match up with the CUP's companies in a general_mark, right? - We feel like we're having trouble. We have a fully funded Catalonia for a State that does not act in which it should do so, in line with those who are still citizens at the moment, whether we speak or not, but who are also intervened. Interviewees, with the public debt in the hands of the State – most of the Catalan public debt – do not allow Catalonia, as the company Baró also said, with a powerful economy, to access, for example, the financing of foreign or international markets, or with a complete dependence on what it does to liquidity, the cash to be able to pay, in order to be able to pay all these public workers who often complain, with all the reason, but we completely depend on this Autonomous Liquidity Fund. And, therefore, the generation of wealthy major didn't go..., sometimes it doesn't drift into the generation of more liquidated, huh? We're completely in a scanning situation. And, therefore, in this we do share, therefore, the philosophy with which the CUP presents this motion. We would also add to this galloping fiscal deficit, the infrastructure deficit, the failure of the state's contributions to Catalonia or even everything, so, as has also been said, the suspension of new tax measures that have been pursued in recent years to try to capture more inputs, for example, from environmental charges. That's all they're systematically suspected of for a state that's against us, that's still trying to kill us more. In fact, for all this, it is not strange that the groups that prophesied independence demand independence, precisely to avoid this situation, which we believe is unsustainable. As a result, with the proposals made to us by the CUP, so obviously some..., even though the will should be the same as sharing, as with the responsibility of the Government, there are measures that we cannot vote in favour, because we do not see each other with color, the Government is not seeing with color, with the funding mark and this mark of systemic and obligatory deficiency, of being able to deal with it. Therefore, in this sense, of the different measures that are proposed, we can give support to the measures for which it does the Law of fiscal and financial measures of 2019, in order to incorporate modifications, as far as possible. We will also give support in the apartment to strengthen, expand and articulate the existing productive structure. In fact, this is a mission already of the Government, through different plans of reversal or of the interdepartmental economy. Or, obviously, we will also support the issue of the apartment and, to work to improve the working conditions of the workers, revert competitiveness based only on the reduction of costs. In fact, this is also one of the strategic measures of the Department of Social Affairs and Families for what it does in the year 2019, and especially for what it does to the negotiation of the different convenient collections, especially those that affect public workers and workers of large corporations who provide public services. For what he does to the first apartment, in which he asks us to reverse the externalisations, we are of the parent that it is not all the fault that one thing works badly..., it is not as long as it is public or private, but as far as quality is concerned, it depends on how the regulation and control of these services is marked. In fact, Catalonia is a country in which we have historically already shown that private initiative has intervened, so giving public character and vision services in a very efficient way and, therefore, in this sense we understand that public-private cooperation is the best way to continue being a country of progress. For what it does to the ICF as a public bank, we also see that with the measures taken in 2015 we have already de facto converted the ICF with a bank of vocation to be a credit bank, apart from investment bank. What is happening is that at these times the fact of having or not having the bank file does not depend strictly on us, depending on whether the fixed European Union, has just fixed the regulation and will also depend on the Central Bank of Spain giving it the visa. And, therefore, as ICF we understand that it is already ready to act on it. For one thing, then, Europe has to open the door to be able to do so. And so, for the rest of the points, as I said, we can't give support, although in some, of the funds, we can agree, but we can't have the compromise as government officials, we can't have the compromise of being able to do it with the resources and the current economic situation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.218.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.219.0	Okay, quickly and to position us on the exams. We agree to trade items 1 and 3, as we have already arrived, from Catalonia in Comú. Let's accept Emena 2. And we thank you for your willingness to negotiate this motion for a resolution and to include the transaction of the foreign pay point, since if the government approves of the work point to improve the working conditions of the workers, the first one to do is to set an example. To Mr. Pachamé. Yes, this is a very ideological proposal, on the part of the CUP, and you told us about the welfare state. I don't know how you intend to maintain the welfare state if the 2,700_million we have can only serve 1,600 and we have not already spent 1,700. I don't know what success model you're talking about, when 20 percent of the employed population earns less than a thousand euros, when 25 percent of the women cover less than 841 euros, when 37 percent of the contracts last less than one month, and when the women of twenty-six years cover less than 2007 – a 33 percent, in concrete terms. With regard to Mrs Romero, well, we appreciate your position, but you do make a contradictory position, because you have jurisdiction over certain instruments of tax evasion, such as SICVs, and we hope that you will also investigate tax fraud in this regard. To Mr. Rodriguez, and respect "the eradication of wealth, as you say, looks, capitalism the only thing that has done is to charge itself with the own productive structure and to bet on the speculative economy, and this has had very concrete consequences on the working class. To Mr. Baro and also to Mr. Munell, this is not about Spain stealing from us, it is a reproduction of class interests and, therefore, it is also a struggle between exploiters and exploiters, and you too, with certain policies, are contributing to this logic. With regard to the control over the financial sphere, and to undermine it with a balanced economy, if you want to have control over this financial sphere, the first thing you have to do is to take steps to build this public bank, which is more than necessary. Enough to ask permission from the State to defend our sovereignty. I don't know how many years they think to wait, but young people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.220.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.221.0	... we can't wait any longer, because our living conditions every time are worse and that's going to go further. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.222.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. Are there separate voting requests? [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.223.0	To ask for separate vote from 1.d and 1.e, for one side, and for another side of '1.e bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.224.0	1.d or b? I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.225.0	D Denmark and Spain. [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't change, don't change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.226.0	Without ebis, I understand, don't I?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.227.0	The ebis aside.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.228.0	Besides, that's good. Any other separate voting petitions? [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.229.0	Thank you, President. They can go all together: 1.a, 1.b and 2. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.230.0	Yes, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.231.0	The 1.c bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.232.0	All right. Mr. Rodriguez, I didn't make it clear whether Mr. Rodriguez? Excuse me. It was not clear to me whether he was asking for the separate vote but in bulk or each of these points separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.233.0	The 1.d and 1.e can go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.234.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.235.0	I'm on the 1st beat, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.236.0	All right. So, if there are no more separate voting requests, let's vote points 1.a, 1.b and 2. In this first vote we will vote 1.a, 1.b and 2. Yeah? The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Carrizosa, you asked me to vote for the '1.c bis separately. I asked if they could vote together 1.a, 1.b and 2. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, vote 1.a, 1.b and 2 together. The vote begins. Points 1a, 1b and 2 of this motion were rejected by 12 votes in favour, 115 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote on point 1.d and 1.e– 1.d and 1.e. The vote begins. Points 1.d and 1.e were approved by 124 votes in favour, against and 3 abstentions. Let's now vote on point 1.c.a., 1.c.a. Yeah? (Founding voice) Yeah, huh? The vote begins. This was approved by 88 votes to three, with 36 abstentions. Now let's vote for the rest of the young lady, if we haven't given up... I'm sorry, yes, 1st bis, exactly. Absence to vote separately 1.e bis– 1.e bis. The vote begins. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.237.0	Excuse me, President. We want you to get the text from this point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.238.0	Okay. [[Pause.]] We're reading the 1st question, even though it's called for... Mr. Rodriguez, it's called for when a separate vote is held, because, if not, we have to paralyze the vote now. In any case, read the point the secretary, Mr. Pérez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.239.0	« 1.e bis: In order to guarantee the rights of public workers, the return of 2013 and 2014 payments, which were to be detailed, must be made before the end of 2019 and 2020, respectively, is essential.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.240.0	We're voting, so, yes, the 1st question, which is what Mr. Pérez's secretary just read. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This was approved by 68 votes to 59. We're voting the rest of the vote now, the rest of the points we haven't voted on. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah? Do we look like we're voting for the rest of the vote? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 98 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the National Compact for the Digital Society]] [[302-00028/12]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, the twenty-third point, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the National Pact for Digital Society. Presented for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, to expose it has the word Ms Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.241.0	Well, good afternoon, President. Councillors, advisors, deputies and deputies, in the past Ple we asked the Councillor Puigneró to respect the National Pact for the digital society. Today we present this motion, presented by Junts for Catalonia, to give support to this national pact signed for the Government of Catalonia, the Diputació de Barcelona, the Diputació de Tarragona, the Diputació de Lleida, that of Girona, the Catalan Association of Municipalities, the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia and Localret, the Consorci Localret, to promote the actions necessary to implement this national pact. Why should I approve of this young man? Well, the Parliament of Catalonia is the chamber of representation of all and every citizen of Catalonia, and it is therefore important to recognize the strategic character of the impulse of digital policies, in the framework of the development of the information and communication society. Digital politics is not a question of technology, nor is it a question of fashion, nor is it just a reptile of a country: it is a social policy in the 21st century. Therefore, before this social policy promoted by President Torra, the Government of Catalonia, what rights can be affected, what society would remain, before the lack of impulses from these digital policies to our society? Thus, for example, the free development of the person, guaranteeing the right of access to optical fiber; guaranteeing social cohesion and equal opportunities to avoid the digital choice; guaranteeing territorial balance, which also generates cohesion in our country, in such a different country, with cities like Barcelona and the territory; guaranteeing companies their competitiveness, with independence from being located, and all this in the framework of an open government, of transparency, of intelligent management of information, of security in the performance and of the best of public services. And why? Because we are living a _fourth revolution that is working in the use of technologies, in big data, robots, blockchain, virtual reality or the internet of things. Catalonia is a country with a transformative, innovative tradition, which has always been characterized by its people, by its ability to work, and we believe that this national pact now reflects this capacity, this country's willingness. Parliament..., basically, there are four points in this national pact: the deployment and management of technological infrastructures; the impetus of a new digital administration; the deployment of the government's intelligent territory strategy; the adoption of measures and technological tools in the field of cybersecurity and the protection of people's digital rights; and the development of industry 4.0. And finally..., to put a pragmatic and real view, when many times we ask what we do from here the Parliament, if you make a quick search, for example for Twitter, and you ask, both in different ways..., in català or in castella, it is the same, the requests of many citizens who make to their assemblies, in their local councils, to the same Generalitat, therefore, respect the use of optical fiber, respect the digital rights, see that what we are approving today is a truly practical policy, a pragmatic policy, a policy that affects all people. Why? Because this Digital Society Pact guarantees equal opportunities, social cohesion, territorial balance in the territory. It's important to have optical fiber, to avoid the digital eclectic, as is the clavegueram, as is any of the basic needs of the citizens. Therefore, this pact, this motion that we present today arises from this realm of government action, of placing people at the centre of government policy. That's why we think it's very important today – and I think it's going to have a large majority support from Parliament's groups – that Parliament approves and raises this motion to raise the consideration of a digital policy to a social policy endorsed by the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.242.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented has the word, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar, the deputy Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.243.0	Good afternoon, Counselor. Today the Junts Group for Catalonia presents us with a motion to its inquiry that made about the digital society. It is true that we approved this national pact, in which we took part the parliamentary groups in a session that we made a request for what is now Councillor Puignero, and we welcomed it at the time, because it is true that this is a very important issue, not only for the economy, that it is digitalization and digital transformation that is supposed to be in the economic fabric, but also as it ends up intervening in many other areas, social, educational, etc., right? Therefore, we had a session that was very interesting, that we liked it, we also appreciate it here, that allowed us to reflect on a very important issue and that affects, therefore, all the spheres, so to speak, of society. What they're putting up with us today is giving support to this pact, and we can't be against it, but it's true that we asked for a little more concrete; more than just not, say, sign it without more, isn't it? Because for us it's important – and our papers are on this line – so that there is the possibility that every year there is a programme, that I suppose it's already planned, that there is an action programme, that this action programme has some actions, with a presumption, with indicators, and that we also allow ourselves to assess how we move forward in the commitments that we all have on this national pact, right? Because, if not, in the end, then well, we are proclaiming, but the important thing would be that after that we also assess whether each of the actions we have granted have developed. I went on the website of the national pact, and there's no such thing, and that's why it seemed to us, from the Socialists and Forwarding Units Group, that it was important that we could approve this plan annually and that we could come to committee to know, so who are the priorities that the government decides in the field of digitization, that I think we could agree here, but it's also true that we are asking the government for courage with this, isn't it? And ambition, because if we don't, we'll be stuck with digitization. Then we also did some research on the line – the counselor already knows, doesn't he? – from the rise of optical fiber and 4G to the whole territory; still, unfortunately, therefore, there is no top. It is true that there are many difficulties here, not only in the infrastructure, but also in the operators involved, but it seems to us that a pact with them could allow us to have the whole territory connected in a very short time. And above all, we do, especially in the valleys of the Pyrenees. Because, if it's true that they are missing – and we talked about it with Congresswoman Geis – some capitals of the region still, many of them are of the Pyrenees. And it's true that Pirinius is patenting a certain depopulation, a certain impoverishment, and therefore, looking at the figures, wanting to prioritize a little those territories that are patenting the most, seemed to us to be opportune. This was not accepted, but we understand, therefore, that with the general we will also continue, right? We'll either prioritize getting to those places where we don't find optical fiber, where there's no 4G, because it's also the way not only people are connected, but people are left in the territory, because it can generate wealth through the creation of entrepreneurs. But, of course, if we're not connected, it seems difficult that one, then, can develop its life course with a territory very lacking in connections, right? And so, so, this was one of the petitions that didn't stick, but we're satisfied, aren't we? , for the acceptance of the other two points, which I think enrich a little the proposal that Junts makes for Catalonia, engaging us, as I said, in a plan of action, in a presupposition, in some actions and in some indicators that allow us to evaluate and improve this element so important for the present and for the future. It's those reps that need to be approached, and the counselor has a department that needs to be approached a lot of reps, but it seems to us that this is one of the ones that needs to be wired to the needle. And, therefore, let us hope that we can continue to talk about it and concrete aspects for us which are very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.244.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next and to fix his position, has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.245.0	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, Members, Members. The truth, that listening to the interventions that preceded me, and above all preparing this intervention yesterday, came to mind a sentence by Albert Einstein that came to say something like that theory sooner or later ends up being overtaken by experience. And don't worry, I don't intend to give a class of theoretical physics. What I want to explain is that in theory we, therefore, share many of the measures, and above all the objective, the public objective that you do about this pact; if we sail through the different axes we could share and reach many points in agreement with you. Even, as proof that this is true, we, in 2016, before you did many of the barbarities you have done, we in some town hall reached agreements in this regard, in this pact with you. But what does the experience tell us? What you're telling us is that you're regular suspects, and maybe what we approve here today as a pact for digitization, then you'll go to the press conference and sell it as a new state structure. What does the experience tell us? For before signing any covenant, and especially with you, you must read very well the small letter. And, look, sailing along the different axes, which, I say, we all share, though with nuances, on the first axis you talk about designing a strategy between administrations to coordinate digital action, under the SmartCatalonia strategy, but you call this «national pact but you don't talk about any kind of collaboration with the state government, with the nation government. We believe that, in order to help the citizens of Catalonia, it would also be interesting to coordinate the digital strategy with the Government of the State. On the other hand, you talk about the need to boost this 4.0 industry, and we completely agree with you; you talk about the potential of Barcelona and Catalonia to..., through digitisation through these companies. But you forget something that I think is more important to attract companies to a territory, which is political stability, that political stability that you have not given to companies and that, well, to date already more than four_ thousand have changed their headquarters to other places in the rest of the national territory. Finally – and this is the most curious – you are talking about guaranteeing the digital rights of citizens and businesses. The truth is that I am a little scared, that you, who do not guarantee both linguistic rights, labour rights or civil rights of more than half of Catalans, must ensure and guarantee our digital rights. Look. [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] This news I've taught you before, hasn't it? : « The Generalitat exposes personal data of all Catalans entitled to vote. And you didn't answer me or what happened. I understand that you, as responsible, have not answered what happened. Well, if it's not true, it's the first time... we'll see, time will tell. In any case, if that's how you're going to watch over our digital data, you'll tell us. And, look, on the other hand, on that same axis, in which you talk about cybersecurity, we observe in the organizational chart that you put in charge of cybersecurity the Cesicat, the Catalan CNI, an organism that is suspected of spying on us, under suspicion of having committed more illegal actions, you are going to put in charge of the cybersecurity of Catalans. But, well, despite all this, despite all these nuances, we do not come here either to tell you that the Earth is flat. We do see some point of agreement in the package of the pact and, as proof of goodwill, we are going to abstain on the first two points and we are going to support the last two, points 3 and 4, which are the Socialist Party's amendments, because we understand that they focus more on when and how we are going to develop this pact. And, look, it seems obvious that we cannot drive a digital society from a divided society like the one you have created. With this I believe that, in order to promote a digital society, first you have to sew the fractures that you have created in Catalonia. It has been talked about what the theory says, I have told you about what the experience tells us and what the intuition tells me, it is my intuition and shared with my colleagues, it is that this sudden interest in digital policies is not random, that you provide 900_million_euros to digitization, that you create a consultancy of digital policies, when you have never been interested in them and that you are making statements from the digital Republic all day, my intuition is that you will continue with your process, now, in digital version. And I hope I'm wrong. If I am wrong and you are betting on digitisation, you will have us next door, in fact, we are the only group that has put forward proposals on digital issues in the committee and, if I am not mistaken and correct, you will have us as you have always had us, in front of you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.246.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is now the return of Mrs Elisenda Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.247.0	MPs, MPs, Councillors, in the last few years, Catalan society has changed a lot, they have transformed the processes of distribution of consumption, but even so, in the way we have acquired knowledge. The Catalan society has changed a lot, it does not assemble to the thirty years ago, from which they built ours, they designed our administrations and our institutions. For this reason, the National Pact for Digital Society can be a response to this change of era, because the institutions come together to this society that has changed so much. We are talking about a national pact for the digital society, because we certainly agree that the new technologies are the answer. But what's the question? The question we need to ask ourselves is what we can use them for, why we use them. And we need to think about the problems we have today and the potential and real uses of the application of these ICTs. The pact deals with the deployment and coordinated management of technological infrastructures and communications that ensure equal opportunities for all territories, citizens and businesses in Catalonia. We will need to see how long this deployment will take, and that is why we fully agree with the Socialist Party's concern about an annual plan of actions that concrete actions, resources and terms of implementation. We need to know what the Generality will do, above all, as well as what has been said, to ensure that every reason in Catalonia comes to these technological infrastructures, because we do not want either first or second citizens and therefore we do not want a two-speed Catalonia. There is also a clear commitment on the part of the Government of the Generality not to abandon this deployment of technological infrastructures to the joint venture, which does not delegate this responsibility to many entities, as it has done with other subjects. Another of the objectives that fix this pact is the impulse of a new, more open, agile, simplistic and effective digital administration. But we ask the government that the best of Administration, that the modernization of Administration is not done to the detriment of workers and public workers, that this song sounds, very often, very intensely, because we cannot talk about modernization of administrations, without talking about democratization of these, of guaranteeing rights, efficiency and efficiency. That is why it is necessary that the modernisation of the Administration is not conducive to either large enterprises, nor copyrights, nor patents, nor triplicates of large enterprises that many times use non-space, which is technology, to escape or to avoid labor rights. A plan for a new company must take into account that we will arrive if the new technologies also combat inequality. If this was not only to modernise institutions and infrastructures, but to build the society of the future and, therefore, to combat inequalities that are very real. We need to ensure that everyone has access to these new technologies, so we need to democratise technology and fight every single one of them, too. Let us remember that in Europe, of a thousand people, only four, only four women work in the world of ICT, and in Catalonia, for example, in the technological industry, only 30_percent of the people who work there are women. Again, technology is the answer, but who asks the question? Who's asking the questions? We also have a commitment to this. One of the most important objectives of the pact is to help develop industry 4.0. The crisis has made it clear that industrial economies have shown a major strength before the recession before other economic activities, such as financial speculation, but also construction. The industry provides more skilled, more stable and more remunerated jobs. It is precisely in industry that the majority of technological advances are generated, which are the basis of the economic progress and well-being of our society. It is very simple: it is difficult to think of a modernisation of institutions without using the potential of technologies, because technology enables new things, but also needs that, in order to not be able to apply, many times, they have remained affluent in a calaix. We agree that the new technologies are the answer, but I am convinced that we will continue to ask ourselves: why do we want to serve them? For what? For five goals? We want a technology in which the benefits respond to clear policy objectives, one that reaches all areas of society. We will build a new Catalonia with the support of technology, it is clear that yes, but only if we commit to a good part of the citizenry and if, in the end, we achieve the final objective, that it is that of all and of all, that it is to improve the lives of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.248.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.249.0	Good afternoon. There are some things that have already been said, as the reality that the current evolution of information technologies is accompanied or can take the risk of a loss of sovereignty. The free program, for example, we find that it does not have much presence in sectors where, a priori, we think it should be hegemonic, such as education or public administration and, therefore, we believe that the National Pact for the digital society must contemplate these issues. It is true that in its definition, which we do not usually see in this type of organization, perhaps the mass of government or the mass of institutions, are contemplated questions linked to free programming and, therefore, we believe that it should be deepened, because we believe that, through free codes and open data, we can guarantee fundamental rights, increase freedoms and make them accessible to everyone who offers us the technology, that is, that they are from the people and not from the multinationals. And that'll make us more free, I said. And we've seen this before, we've seen it with our impossible hackers, to whom we thank the victory of the tech battle to keep alive the universal cent of October 1, with free software and encryption. The Spanish State did not win in either analog or digital, although it was all day blowing up servers, breaking IP and sabotaging domains, the same way it blew up doors, hitting and stealing ballot boxes. For what it does to the territorial balance that they have raised, I suppose they have not passed through the Ribera d'Ebre and do not know the platform Ens Touch the Fibre, because this platform poses a struggle, precisely, in order to have adequate access to the information, through the optical fiber network of Catalonia. But what's going on? That, since 2013, the Government of Catalonia has invested more than 100_million euros in this network, of which the Open Network of Catalonia is also part. And what do we have? Once again, those vital infrastructures to democratize, to modernise, for all these objects that they plant, we have them totally privatized and on the one hand the management Cellnex and the other, Telefónica. In the part that Telefónica manages does not complete the contract for what it does at the price or for what it does at the quality of the service. And, finally, there's someone who says that you give them are the 21st century oil. So, let's analyze who extremises and exploits this new resource and which networks of global geopolitics interests are woven. We must age for the protection of privacy and the inviolability of communications. The protection of our digital communications must be defended as a fundamental right. And vigilante wants to push the republic to the cloud, because, here, what we have is a material popular republic, which is on the street, not a digital and symbolic republic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.250.0	Congresswoman, time's up. Thank you. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.251.0	Thank you, President. Assenyalar that, well, that I thought that, here, we were going to talk, therefore, about the digital society, right? And the truth is, they're surprised that some of them have the ability to barricade it completely with the republic, with the process, with the October 1st – which also came out October 1st – and I don't know how many more things. To say that, surely, my intervention, in this aspect, my defense of the positioning will be much more elementary, eh? , do not go looking for this historical social transcendence, which some would like to say. To say that, from the People's Party, we will support this initiative. Now, I also have to remind you that we have very little faith in ourselves and the ambitions that can be planted and that can be successfully achieved. And not because we do not want it, but because the evidence, the facts consumed have shown that, when most of the times this Parliament has taken the decision to make a national pact for any justified reason, normally, this national pact is nothing but good words and it has not been translated into concrete facts, has it not? Therefore, show our support for the final document, but at the same time express our doubts about its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.252.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of the MP Mònica Palacín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.253.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor; deputies, deputies, late maid. We want to be a republic that is a world-relevant in the development of innovation, both technological and social, that allows us to increase the empowerment of citizens and their quality of life, that improves the competitiveness of businesses and improves the quality of services and the efficiency of public administrations. A model that places citizenship at the centre of the innovation circle, through a good broadband deployment and mobile networks in the territory, a technological sector that can help businesses, institutions and society to implement innovation, as well as the incorporation of effective processes that facilitate the interaction of citizens and enterprises with public administration, ICTs for the service of human relations and the paradigm shift between sub-minister and consumer, facilitate the integration of collections at risk of digital exclusion and work and family reconciliation, while enhancing the service and quality of life of people and guiding our lives towards sustainability. This motion and the National Pact for the Digital Society are based, to a large extent, on the policies and initiatives that have been led by the D'Esquerra in this area of government that were made during the 2003 and 2010 progress governments. Like Esquerra, then, we have to give support to all these policies, because they are heretics of ours. Esquerra put the work to all and every one of them: the Open Network, cybersecurity, Mobile World Capital, support for the economy and the ICT sector. And in this I coincided with Mr Albiol, the comment he made, despite the fact that some group in the chamber agreed to place it all in the process that for them it is to lay down linen, to keep the fire on and, therefore, to keep their raison d'être. So, we're going on, we're going on about digital policies. It is essential to treat this proposal as a country strategy, as a tool of great importance for social cohesion. One example: if there is fiber in Tortosa's hospital but there is no fiber in Campdevánol's hospital, the Jewish health service will be better than that of Ripollès, and that, obviously, we cannot afford, because we break the principle of universality and equality. We also agree to involve all actors, and we celebrate that the local council and Localret have joined, as an example of collaboration between administrations, including provided for in the national pact. And also let me, like the Maresmenca, congratulate ourselves on the convenient signature between the Maresme County Council and the CTTI this September so as to share the use of the optical fiber network that the district council developed. Maresme's wide-band regional network project is a strategic tool for territorial cohesion, interconnection of the 30 joints of the region with the optical fiber cable, with the main aim of improving the connectivity of the joints. Adapting to the new social challenges of supply and global impact is essential to move forward as a society of citizens and citizens free, and that is what we need to do from cybersecurity like this, the data economy, modernisation and the transformation of the Administration thanks to ICTs. This plan, too, and in terms of working to achieve equality between women and men, must represent a social change towards the professional vocations of women in the ICT sector. Also this pact, like everyone else, like everything that comes out of this government, has to be drawn up from the equals, putting all the lilies on us. We do not forget the promotion and defense of català in digital environments to give users, businesses, administrations the maximum opportunities, as well as the fact of debating the layout of the free program in all this strategy. It must now continue with the phases and activities defined in the framework of which the strategic plan must be to land all the measures, with a list of concrete actions, with a timetable of these actions and with the presuppositional priorities and the deployment of actions to the territory. Strategically according to what defines as the methodology the website of the National Pact for the digital society or the platform of actions, as laid down by the documents of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, items that put black on white in this motion that the same pact already establishes, but I am sure that they will improve it from the will to arrive at agreements. Therefore, thank you, Mrs Geis, for the proposal; thank you, Mrs Romero, for the papers. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.254.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, to pronounce on the papers, has the new word Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.255.0	Well, thanks to all the Members, the Members, for their interventions; to the Member Alicia Romero, therefore, for accepting the papers. He knows we've been working with..., and we've heard that we don't want to prioritize some territories with respect to others at the top of optical fiber, and so we've closed these two tracks. To the deputy of Citizens, therefore, habitual suspects and a bus passing asking for pardons and the photo of Vice President Junqueras, the one that does violate is the right to the presumption of innocence, article 24 of the Constitution. [[Greetings.]] Second. And 900 million euros of assumptions would please us, and let's point this out enthusiastically. Third. With Mrs Alamany, of the commons, therefore, totally agree. You're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher; you're a teacher. To the MP of the CUP, the Nàtalia Sánchez, so, yes, the free programmer..., we have to go ahead; data protection, the new European data protection directive, which is very demanding... And remind him that we met together, the deputies of Juntes for Catalonia, that you think there was, with Us Touch the Fiber, because you are also working with the council; we were all at the same meeting, so this problem we also know. And, as Councillor Puigneró remembers, so also remember the challenge that still exists to the Constitutional Court – for those who speak of cybersecurity – of the Cybersecurity Agency, that we expect one day or another to be pulled back, right? , this appeal brought before the Constitutional Court. And in any case, then, we will cease to be regular suspects and continue to work because this society remains digital, just and solidary. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.256.0	We're calling it a vote. Are there separate voting petitions? [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Yeah? Say, Mrs. Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.257.0	Points 1 and 2, which can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.258.0	Okay. Any more separate voting requests? [[Pause.]] Don't you? So we'll vote points 1 and 2, and then the rest of points, that's, 3 and 4. Let us then proceed to the vote. We will vote first in points 1 and 2 together. The vote begins. These two points were approved by 92 votes in favour, against and 36 abstentions. Let's go now and vote on the rest of the points, that's to say, the 3rd and the 4th. The vote begins. Points 3 and 4 are approved unanimously, i.e. 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the treatment of inmates of the Catalan penitentiary centres]] [[302-00029/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the order of the day: this is the motion following the question to the Government on the treatment given to the inmates of the Catalan prisons, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word the deputy lady Lorena Roldán. [[Widow's remorse.]] The demand that if they have to get out of the hemicicle they do it quickly and quietly, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.259.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, we're in the Parliament of Catalonia, at least for now, it won't be that they close it again – I touch wood. And I say this because sometimes we have to remember who we are and where we are, because this is not a courtroom, this is not a court, nor are we judges or magistrates. We are Members, we are politicians, and we come to this House to defend the interests and rights of all Catalans, each from their position, with their vision, but always with the powers and limits that the office entails. On the basis of these powers and in accordance with Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure of this Chamber, my parliamentary group requested information on members of the Government and other posts of the Generalitat on account of their position and in the exercise of that position, information regarding the frequent visits that these posts, these members were making to different prisons, such as Lledoners or Mas d'Enric. Visits that you can't even deny, because we know the details, some of them very embarrassing, like that prison pact, embarrassing, where Iglesias and Junqueras traded with the budgets of all the Spaniards. The reason for these questions was much questioned by the Justice Counsellor during the last plenary session. Well, then, why is it very easy: because we have a right, because although this government does not like to explain, because although this government does not like to face up and try to close Parliament, try to create several parallel structures, we have a right as an opposition to ask and the government has an obligation to answer. And perhaps the question is not why we ask, but why you hide. What do you not want us to know about these visits? We asked the department in writing, we asked an oral question at the control session, we asked the Bureau for protection, we asked the councilwoman, and they did not answer us. We are being denied the right of information which, I insist, is set out in the Rules of Procedure of this Chamber. And I am aware that there are some groups here, therefore, that do not have much attachment to the Rules of Procedure or to the laws, but I trust that the vast majority do. And that is why today we again request this information with this motion. These days, speaking to the rest of the group colleagues, I was told that, well, they would not vote in favour of this request for information because it is not the usual way, to ask it in a motion. However, I, for example, bring a motion here, it's this one from here. [[the speaker the exhibition]] in this case it is a motion of the Socialist Party on policies of support to the enterprise, where the Socialist Party itself, through a motion, also requests information from the government. And that's why we use this channel. Preventing the vote on this motion from knowing the truth only makes it necessary to confirm what is already a secret to voices, and is that the Government dispenses a favor to the inmates of the process. And from today it will do so with the complicity of those who vote against this request for information and this motion. He who fears nothing hides nothing. We want to know the truth, because it is also a truth that affects civil servants, because it is the duty of this Parliament to ensure that justice workers and prison staff can do their work without political interference of any kind. And this is what we ask in paragraph 4 of this motion. He said at first that neither this is a court nor we are judges. And we can have opinions on judicial decisions, of course we can, but neither can these opinions be an excuse for not respecting the resolutions nor much less for obviating our responsibilities as politicians. Perhaps the Councilwoman seems unwarranted about the temporary detention of the prisoners of the trial, perhaps other members of this chamber do, but I regret to say that as Members that is not our function, it is not our business. Perhaps it was our thing or, rather, his thing a year ago, because all this could have been avoided, because they received more warnings than anyone else. I remember perfectly well the chairman of my group, Mrs Arrimadas, asking them not to cross that red line, because on the other side of that line what there were were criminal consequences. And even though they knew it, they decided to cross it. And now you're trying to look guilty out there, but maybe you should look inside, maybe you should ask the head of all this misconception, who had no objection to running away and leaving the hangings, despite the damage that it meant to them, for those who stayed here. They thought they were different from the rest of the citizenry, that as politicians nothing could happen to them. Maybe they even thought, then, that I don't know, that that pseudoley where Puigdemont chose the judges by the finger would prosper. But in the end reality was imposed. And the reality is, we're all equal before the law. Skipping legality, degrading our institutions, breaking Catalan society is very serious and cannot leave for free. And I understand that you are in a conflict of interest, because you are guarding your colleagues, I know, we have already warned of the unusualness of this situation. But that's no excuse to justify unequal treatment. That is why we in this motion call for equal treatment for the entire prison population. I myself have visited those prisons; there are many humble people, people who made a mistake as a young man, and they have families, children, parents, couples who may also be living in such a harsh situation but still respect the rules. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] This Parliament – and I finish, President – must aspire to work for equality, and that is why we call today on the responsibility of those who are here. Because today, those who vote against this motion will be legitimizing inequality and impunity. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.260.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, as long as no papers have been submitted, we move on to the turn of interventions for group positioning, and first of all it is the turn of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. The word has the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.261.0	Thank you, President. Counselors... well, we're being presented with a motion on the treatment of the inmates of the Catalan penitentiary centres. This is the statement; but curiously when you read the statement you don't agree with the content. More clearly, this young man only goes from the treatment that is dispensed to some interns and interns in the Catalan penitentiary centers, concretely to seven. Of a prison population of 8,487 people, you focus on the deal dispensed to seven. The Catalan prison system has been a model of reference for a long time at the national, state and international levels. The work with the prison population to prevent recidivism, especially with the youngest, and the empowerment of the application of alternative criminal measures have allowed us to gain a prestige in the prison environment that you see peril in the last few days. And no, we don't think we're talking about you seeing yourself bewildered by the treatment you've given to seven inmates; that's not what we're thinking when we're talking about bewilderment. We've been thinking about the whole prison system. We refer to the obvious shortcomings of the system that accumulated detail and the abandonment of the last governments have entailed. We are concerned about the state of prison equipment, with the need for major reforms to centres such as Brians 1 and Brians 2 and Quatre Camins, the construction of the prevention centre in Zona Franca, or the open centre necessary for Trinitat Vella's confinement, or the construction of the women's prison centre to hold Wad-Ras, which is in deplorable conditions. We are even more concerned about the staff of prison workers and workers. A staff enveloped, and with a high percentage of internation, which, as we have already shown to the Councillor, is a very difficult situation, for which it is going in the current, but above all, for which it can go in the future. Mirin, of some, approximately 4,700 workers, only one-twenty are under the age of thirty. This fact is harder, as I was saying, not what it's going through now, that it's going through what it's going through in the future. And it still gets worse in some collections as are the workers of the inner rule. The tasks that develop vigilance but also intervention, in case of incidents in the legs, for example, cause their physical state, therefore, to be important. Interinternship is also a very difficult situation that we think the government has to face. Our group is worried about all this. And yes, we are also concerned that the regulations in force and the general prison regulations are complete. But not just for seven internals or internals, but for the entire prison population. And we understand that, if it doesn't complete, there are the corresponding mechanisms, first, to put it in evidence, and then, then, to correct it. We don't think this is the mechanism to do it. We don't think a young woman is the instrument to ask the government for information, as they do at the first point. And, Mr. Roldán, the reason you referred to us asking for information..., we did not ask for information the same way you did in this case: we asked for a study to be carried out. Nor do we understand that, as they say in point 2, they have the awareness of privileges attached to some inmates outside the prison rules, do not take the corresponding legal actions to correct this fact. But what we're afraid of is that everything folded is nothing more than a strategy to keep the conflict going. What we fear is that this young man did not present it because this is the great problem of Catalans and Catalans, because this is not even the great problem of the prison population of our country. We believe that this young man has presented it because it allows them to generate a headline that serves you a lot, but that obviously does not generate people, does not help people to the political climate in Catalonia. As I said, as we are concerned about the entire prison system, our vote will be in favour of those two points in which they speak of the whole prison system. But to stir up the conflict, to frustrate the political climate in Catalonia, we will not be found there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.262.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and on behalf of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Mr Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.263.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, good late, deputies and deputies, the pact..., the real debate we're having this late is not the right of information the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has on the situation of political prisoners in Catalonia. This is not the debate. The real debate that we are addressing is the situation of rights and freedoms, especially the debate of the fundamental rights, and if, in Catalonia and Spain, there are exceptions that these fundamental rights are maintained. Yesterday, clearly, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group gave us an example. In public places and in public space, there may be a suspension of phonenal rights, because political symbols, according to this parliamentary group, are somewhat preoccupied with the situation and the sensitivities of a part of the citizens of this country. We are returning to the same situation in the case of prisoners, and specifically political prisoners in Catalan prisons. And the question of the million, Mrs. Roldán, is, do we have to make an exception with the phone book rights of these men and women? Is that what you and your parliamentary group really think? The one who did not dare to say here now in his intervention, but who is in the background as much of his inquiry as of the action of his parliamentary group? That is why he is presenting us today with a motion for a resolution to which we will not support, because it is a political disproposal; but, obviously, because he ignores, and therefore lacks rigour, an important part of the international treaties and recommendations, the Constitution, the Statute of Catalonia and the laws, the regulations and circulars governing the prison system in this democratic state. And you're all over this with your motion, your proposal that ignores these orders. Miri, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights is very clear in its article 10.2.a: "The accused shall be separated from those convicted, except in exceptional circumstances, and shall be subjected to a different, appropriate treatment, Mrs Roldán, "in their status as unconvicted persons. International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, signed for the Spanish State in 1977. [[Greetings.]] Recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, exactly Recommendation 2006/13, which says: "I have presented the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all persons deprived of liberty, and the special need to ensure not only that persons who are in pre-trial detention can prepare their defence and maintain family relations, but also that they are not held in incompatible conditions with their legal condition, which is based on the presumption of innocence. Yes, you have already condemned them, Mrs. Roldán. What they're asking is for and water, which is what they would give to these prisoners, from their point of view. And, therefore, you also pay attention to the Council of Europe. Spanish Constitution, Article 10.2: "Standards on fundamental rights must take into account international treaties and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 25: "Condemning that you are serving prison sentence shall enjoy the fundamental rights of this chapter, carried by those which are expressly limited by the content of the true condensers. Spanish constitution, Mrs. Roldán. All chapters of the Spanish Constitution must be read, not just those of interest to them. (Applause.) Status of Catalonia : « The totality of prison management in Catalonia, especially the direction, organization, regime, functioning, planning and inspection of penal institutions correspond to the Generality of Catalonia. Even though you don't like them. And, obviously – and I finish, because I no longer have time – Article 51 of the General Prison Law, Royal Decree which approved the Prison Rules, Articles 41 to 49, and finally, also Circular 2/2008...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.264.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.265.0	... on the personnel control system authorized to access prisons.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.266.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.267.0	Read'sla llei, Mrs. Roldán, will make better proposals. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.268.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn now of the deputy Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.269.0	Thank you, President. To intervene from the escó. When we saw this young man, he seemed interesting to us, so he could go in and discuss the deal the interns had. So, there's absolutely nothing wrong with the young man. You don't talk about social prisoners. You don't talk about what you consider to be common prisoners. They only want a certain intervention on political prisoners. And a certain intervention that is in relation to political persecution of those and those who visit political prisoners. Look, or it could be derived from an interpretation of the UPC, but we only want to read what you say a part of your motion. Point 1, Apartat 6: "Reject any unjustified application by the political leaders of the prison institutions of the Generalitat, who are in a situation of structural conflict with the separatist politicians imprisoned in the event of their being sentenced by the latter for justice to imprisonment of more benign regimes of deprivation of liberty, progressions in degree or regimes open to certain prisoners because of their relations with the current political leaders of the Government of the Generalitat. They will have to tell us why they have only included 'with separatist politicians'. They were not supposed to be separatists, but for a presumed crime. But they'll have to clarify a lot more. It should be in reference to any internal, if there is a conflict of interests, but not: it is not in any internal; only and exclusively in relation to prisoners and political pressures. That it is good that you already recognize that you obviously have the condition of "separatist policies, because you are in prison because you are separatist policies and policies. We also give it in a very clear way. It is also important to know whether you are responsible for the decisions to be taken by the prison institutions. In relation to this literal they generate another problem, because they say that there is a certain deal depending on whether there is an ideological coincidence between who has to solve and between who is political, for us, who is political. And what you're going to assume is that you want to limit the application of the Prison Rules solely for the sake of matching ideologically. And this is discriminatory action. And, finally, we ask them... [[For technical reasons, some words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] I'm sorry... we ask you, with the utmost respect, that when you talk about prisoners and the prisoners do it with the utmost respect, but also when you set up what visits mean, I didn't drag it as if it was a trip. A prison visit means that there's a time when doors are locked, where there are blanks, blanks of people who can't share with those people they care about. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.270.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.271.0	All right. Assign that from the People's Party, Mr. President, we will support this proposal, this motion of Ciutadans. But I must tell you with all sincerity: I do not know if this proposal that the Ciutat Group has tabled today is in favour of political conviction or political opportunism. And I'm saying this because I'm surprised that on such a scandalous subject as we're raising at these moments when the first information appeared, City took a little more than a month to react to the facts that were being produced. On August 30, the People's Party Group was given to know what was going on with the policies that are in prison. On August 31st we were going to send..., on August 31st and September 17th, two cards to the Minister of Justice explaining the facts that had been produced, of which we had news and of which we had documentary information, to make it available to the Minister. Until that moment – I repeat – from August 30th, which is when the first information appears, then, until September 17th, Ciutadans did not say absolutely anything about these complaints that we were making from the People's Party. And now, on the 6th of October, a media outlet, the newspaper El Mundo, gathers the information– « The prison of Lledoners, a separatist power center–, and curiously on the 6th of October, I repeat, almost one and a half months after the first information of these facts that were produced is made public, then Ciutadans already reacted, by the mouth of her spokesman, of her president, Mrs Arrimadas. Therefore, here, as I say, we are ahead of a situation of opportunism or conviction. It seems that Ciutadans only reacts when certain information appears in the communication media, as it also happened with the application of Article 155, that at first they say no, that it was "killing flies by cannons and then it seemed that they had invented the application of this constitutional articulation. And, therefore, well, beyond the suspicion and doubt that we may have, it seems to me that in a reasonable way, as I am expressing, we will give support to the young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.272.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.273.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, today we are back in front of a Ciutadans youth to do what they know to do, which is to lie, which is to cry, which is to divide, which is to hate and which is to try to generate a fracture re fracture, because you understand that against the independenceists everything goes well. Mirin, you, on the day of yesterday – on the day of yesterday, huh? , twenty-four hours, a record, a record – they quoted matches as ages, they quoted matches as hits, they quoted matches as chavists, as populists. When asked about how Vox is quoted, they say: "Uy, I don't have polytologist studies, I can't comment on what is one party or another. Why? Why do they have to say they're from overseas? Maybe why they assemble a lot, as they also said, that Mr. Santi Abascal and Mr. Rivera assembled a lot and coincided almost always, in all opinions? Is that it? For some, but for some, no. You came here yesterday, as every day, to condemn the referendum, as every day. But yesterday they had in the Senate the opportunity to condemn the franchise, and they did not vote in favour of condemning the franchise, another time. Another time. [[Greetings.]] Condemn ballot boxes and do not condemn faxist regimes. You presented a bill yesterday to say: "We want to neutralize in the streets, we want to neutralize in the streets. But in the syndic's debate they said, "No, no, neutrality is the deep loops, that there is Francoism symbolism that doesn't bother, that doesn't get it out of the streets, we just want to get it out, we just want to get it out of the streets, we just want to get it out of the streets. Franchise symbols, names of bewitched mayors, etcetera, that they find very normal, that they are on the streets of our cities. But, more than that, they're still getting over it, because you come here and always criticize that the marking and that is pointed at us and I don't know what, make a bus with the face of the president of my party who's in prison. I should've thrown them in the face of shame! I should've thrown them in the face of shame! [[Greetings.]] And besides, you're the ones who always signify, they've appointed teachers to whom the case is filed, they've appointed judges because in their time they're free to make a constitution, and now they're assigning people who are in pre-trial detention. They have no shame. But, said that, and speaking of pre-trial detention, yesterday, in addition, we knew of a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights that gave and demanded the release of a Kurdish deputy because he was being violated by his political rights. Mirror [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] , said: "There is no democracy if the leaders of the opposition or the elected are in prison. That's what Mr. Albert Rivera said. Do they still share it? I do, because the elites here are in prison, people who should be sitting on their seats, and you smile and applaud that you are in prison. You should have a deep reflection. Because really Mrs. Roldán says: "Very good. This is not a court. So no, actually. And you'd have to learn that they're neither prosecutors nor judges, because all day long they're threatening to argue with us, they're threatening us with criminal actions, and all day long they're sentencing what we've done and what we've stopped doing. So, learn yourself, apply the story and stop insulting us every day and threatening us with criminal actions. But entering into the contents of your own youth, you say: "Oh, they have privileges, they have layoffs, they have... how far do they lie? How long will you lie so much for your political interest? How much do you have to go on lying with impunity about things that aren't true? How much? How much? Because, in addition, you have made many parliamentary initiatives for the political prisoners of Catalonia, effectively, and inventing lies about supposed privileges they have. And do you know how many they've done for a person, man, who's in a women's prison with a flag for the sun of 450 square meters? Zero. Not one, they did. [[Greetings.]] Not one. Strong with the weak and I will not say weak with the powerful, I will say that you with the powerful, directly. And it's about you talking about more visits. « They have more visitors. "To those who say that there is a full democracy, to those who say that there are no political prisoners, but that they are coups, to those who say that there is an absolute normality, I have seen something that is not normal, that I had not seen it in thirty-six years that I have and that I did not expect to see in a democracy, that is that I cannot see a person having communicated a visit. A person who is in prison but who is a person elected by the citizens. That's what Mr. Albert Rivera said, and it's a complaint that there was no real democracy, because since the congressman didn't let him go to see what he said was political. So, learn-s'ho, because Lord Rivera ended that intervention saying: "If anyone wants and seeks dialogue, what kind of dialogue does he expect if he cannot visit political prisoners? There will be no dialogue if political prisoners are not on the street. Twenty-five May 2016, Mr.Albert Rivera Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.274.0	Congressman... [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Congressman. It has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Josep Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.275.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, deputies, deputies, we are here to debate a motion in favour of repression, presented for the party of repression. Therefore, logically, together for Catalonia we will vote against it, and we also hope that it will do so a large majority of this Parliament, which represents the people of Catalonia and which is broadly against repression. The young lady tells us that there are prisoners for whom being in prison is a privilege, in other words, that they do not have a very strict gain. Interestingly, they don't identify them, but they totally understand who they're referring to. Among other things, the MPs who should be occupying these escons right now. Ciutadans claims that the Government of Catalonia gives privileged treatment to political prisoners. They say they have a lot of institutional visits, and they ask for the list to be able to notify those who have gone to see them. Mirin, in possession of asynyalat. I went to him on this Tuesday. I met with the president and two Members of my parliamentary group, in Jordi Sánchez, who are from there, in Jordi Turull and in Josep Rull. Visiting them is a right we have all the members of this Parliament. A lot of them have done it, and everyone can do it. With the words of Councillor Turull, this very Tuesday, a privilege would be that in the accounts of going there I may have gone to his daughters, but it turns out that to see them one more time he has to work an extra hour each day. In reality, who treats prisoners unjustly, vengefully, it is Spanish justice, a justice that has been discredited before society and before the world, every day more, a State that has already posed itself on this subject at the level of Turkey. And don't tell me now that I'm exaggerating, huh? , that in the forty-seven states of the Council of Europe, there are only two Members in prison: one, as I said, is Turkey, and the other, effectively, is Spain. And as the spokesman of the Republic Group said, the European Court of Human Rights has already had to urge Turkey to release a Kurdish leader, who was a deputy when he was hired without trial. The sentence says to keep him in prison, to prevent him from occupying his escho and to exercise his parliamentary rights with caution against his political rights, but also – and this is very important – against the political rights of the citizens that he voted for. Are they ringing? Actually, that's what we're patenting here in 2018, in Catalonia. In short, we have to vote against this young man, because in Catalonia the consensus is in the rebuff of repression. According to a recent survey, 82 per cent of the population of Catalonia is in favour of the freedom of political prisoners. This means, no more or less, that six million Catalans and Catalans. And do you know what the most interesting data of this study is? That a 30_per_cent of Ciutadans' voters are also against the preventive detention, among others, of the fellow Members of this Parliament. We all know Ciutadans voters who are against repression. I find myself, for example, in college, among my students. And here in this little hemicycle there are also MPs who recognize him in private, too. In fact, in order to faithfully represent his voters, 11 of the thirty-six deputies of Ciutadans would have to vote against this young man. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, eleven of the thirty-six would have to vote against his own motion to faithfully represent his voters. Who knows, hey, who knows if they want to keep the list of visits to find out if any MPs on their bench have gone to support them. [[Rialles.]] Is that why they care so much? Look, you have a problem, and this problem is 30 percent of your voters, who reject repression. And they're good enough to need them to win votes in Spain. They are caps of underprivileging a portion of their voters to win votes in Spain. That's the only reason why he's a passenger in Madrid, as he said before, with a shameless bus asking harder, harder with political prisoners, but, hey, don't get him to drive to Catalonia, this bus. They are already like the rest of state parties, they have become a branch that sacrifices the interests of its voters here to grow in votes there. You claim more repression, you don't have much to do with it. And I think you should reflect, humbly. Summoning demonstrations in favor of political opponents' engagement evokes very remote things from history. Reflection. It's forty-three years since the Bourbon Restoration. And maybe it's a good time to say that if then you've done well with the franchise today we wouldn't be patenting...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.276.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.277.0	...this unworthy repression.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.278.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.279.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.280.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yes, Mrs. Roldán, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.281.0	Yes, thank you, President. For allusions, in accordance with Article 87 of the Rules of Procedure, personal allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.282.0	They greeted you personally, I'd say, all the groups, just because you defended the motion. That's normal, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.283.0	But there was a direct relief...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.284.0	Many allusions have been made, giving their name directly. If we did it that way in every show, we'd open a_second debate that doesn't match.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.285.0	In accordance with Article 87, I have right to these personal references.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.286.0	Right when there are allusions, there are really personal allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.287.0	Well, as a matter of contradiction, in Article 86.3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.288.0	For contradictions? What contradictions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.289.0	Article 86(3), when I was told by the Aragonese Member that we only refer to one part of the inmates, to some inmates in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.290.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.291.0	I would like to remind you that we are referring to those interns who are in receipt of the favor, who precisely correspond to the interns of the process, and that this affects the totality of the prison interns, because it turns out that the rest of the interns also have family and cannot receive a visit from their family, as do the prisoners of the process.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.292.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] Pass the... [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.293.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.294.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.295.0	On the 1st, the 4th and 5th blocks, which can go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.296.0	1, 4 and 5?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.297.0	Yes, in the 1st point, the 4th and 5th apartments, which are in Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.298.0	Okay. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.299.0	Yeah, for two things. One to ask for allusions for my group. [[Rialles.]] Allusions from the group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.300.0	They're the proposing group, Mr. Carrizosa. No, they don't, you know, they don't.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.301.0	It's been said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.302.0	He said two things to me. Not this one. They've alluded to their group. They're in the proposing group. So, I don't match, you know perfectly well. And the second thing, why ask me the word? He said two things.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.303.0	Question of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.304.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.305.0	For this group has been told that we lie, that we incite hatred, etc. Then I wanted to know whether these expressions can be uttered in plenary without any problem and do not violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.306.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you know exactly what the deal is – I said it this morning and I come back to insist now – which is the deal we made with the groups. I'm responding to me manage it. I try to manage it with the utmost efficiency and rigour. In any case, in some moments it will please us more, it will please us less, all folds. But they already know who the basis of the agreement is, and so I try to make sure that all groups respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.307.0	All right. And then, finally, Mr President, and this time already to ask for two readings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.308.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.309.0	From the first, second and fourth sections – II and IV in Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.310.0	Paragraph 1.2 and 1.4, which is read before the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.311.0	Exactly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.312.0	All right. A separate vote on point 1.4 and 1.5 had been requested; yes, Mrs Granados? You can go together, I get it, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. So, let's get up... [[The vice president said: "You have to call a vote.]] Oh, he forgave – he forgave. That's right. In any case, he said that we would vote first on point 1.4, from which we asked for reading, point 1.5–1.4 and 1.5, but reading point 1.4–; then point 1.2, excuse, which has also asked for separate, right? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 1.4 and 1.5, huh, just? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, 1.2, reading. He forgives – he forgives –, now in conphony. You're right. Therefore, read '1.2, 1.4 and 1.5 separately. We'll vote first 1.4, 1.5, read point 2 and vote with the rest of the vote, huh? 1.2 and point four, all right. [[Pause.]] Well, then we'll vote on points 1.4 and 5 together. I'll ask the secretary, Mr. Pérez, who reads point 1.4. When you're ready, secretaries.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.313.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. « The Parliament of Catalonia urges the Government of the Generalitat : IV. Ensure that all personnel serving in Catalan prisons are able to carry out their duties in accordance with prison regulations and the rest of the existing legal system without undue and unjustified political interference.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.314.0	Thank you, secretaries. Let us now proceed to the vote. Therefore, points 1.4 and 1.5. The vote begins. These two points are rejected by 57 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Now let's vote on the rest of the vote, but before we read point 1.2. We're reading point 1.2, Mr. Perez's secretaries. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.315.0	« The Catalan Parliament urges the Government of the Generality to: II. To ensure equal treatment for the prison population as a whole, regardless of the nature of the judicial measure that has involved the detention of its members, without inmates being able to benefit from any kind of differential treatment over the rest of the inmates, in particular when such differential treatment is given by their political status or by their relations with the current political leaders, who are in a clear relationship of conflict of structural interest.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.316.0	We vote, therefore, on this point and the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 88 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the collapsing of jutjats specialized in clausules only]] [[302-00032/12]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, which is the twenty-five point, so the motion following the government's inquiry into the collapsing of jutjats specialized in clausules alone. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, ask them that if they have to get out of the hemicicle they do it in silence. [[Pause.]] Motion submitted for the Republican Parliamentary Group. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mrs Magda Casamitjana.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.317.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, deputies and deputies, about 90 per cent of the thirty-six thousand judicial applications on unfair only clauses, which have been filed in the last year and a half, are still stuck, because the col·lapse of the jutjats is monumental. Ninety-nine percent of the solved cases give reason to the plaintiffs. It should be the banking entity that solved it, without the need to finally resort to justice. The consequences of the treatment of this assumption by the powers of the Spanish State have caused serious harm to consumers. Banks have power and control over the whole operation. The consumer is seriously harmed. This out-of-court and free procedure, which is required by the Royal Decree-Law, is overcome by the consumer's need to find a solution to the problem. That is why we present this motion, the contents of which we explained last session in an inquiry to the honourable Constable Esther Capella and in which she also gave many other details. I will focus today on the issues presented and their acceptance or not. We accept the expression of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Posão. From the Republican Parliamentary Group and Left Group to the Congress of Deputies we go much further, and we defend, not only to reform the Royal Decree 1/2017, but to repeal it, directly, and approve a new law. That is why the Esquerra Parliamentary Group at the Congress of Deputies has already made effective the entry of a proposal for a law of urgent measures to protect consumers in the matter of clauses only on November 8, 2018 where the priorities, of course, are the protection of consumers' interests and, among many other things, the adoption of uniform standards on abusive clauses that allow the Member States of the European Union to apply stricter provisions to favour consumers in compliance with European legislation. For what it does to the papers of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, we have proposed to Congresswoman Ibarra a transaction in the number 1 of the motion, incorporating all the emena presented as added, respecting our point 1, and incorporating it all. We believe that this is a parallel measure to which he initially proposed, which goes in the line of reinforcing the guarantees to the client to finance provided for in the sectoral consumer protection legislation. In addition, we have also proposed to Congresswoman Ibarra that we should also deal with the 1 bis point of the same parliamentary group, insisting that our proposal went much further, and we demand a model of all decentralisation. For what he does to the other papers presented, we have already stayed that at point number 2 we will not accept them. Let us reiterate that this issue should never have been brought to justice. There's been a big problem since the state, and now they're asking us to solve everything, and the counselor has already explained that we've done it and we've continued to do it, but it's not enough. They know perfectly well that it is neither possible nor possible to ask and ask to strengthen plants, even though it has been done. They also know perfectly well that the magnitude of the tragedy is unstoppable. The embús cause is of enormous dimensions. There are other lives that are what we propose today and here. For what he does to the papers of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, we have arrived at the Member of the Valley that we would accept the papers of Point 1, which are two papers that only change two words, and I do not seem to accept them. Two words which are to be demanded, they are to be taken away from us in order to ask and we say that we will already do so, eh? 'Cause that's all it is 'cause we can approve a point. We believe that "requiring is much more coherent to reinforce the need and urgent rectification and correction of the incomprehensible inhibition of Spanish public powers – enforced, legislative and judicial – in the attention to the rights of citizens consumers of products financed with repeatedly qualified as abusive in the case law of the European Court of Justice. The other issue was the Government of the State for the Government of Spain. Well – well – still for the dialog. For what it does to the papers presented at point 2, the initial motion to return the ordinary distribution of assumptions between the set of first instance courts and to abandon the measure of uniprovincial specialized courts..., to speak, in this sense, of strengthening of courts with judicial parties where we have already set ourselves judicial bodies in operation in the past year, is..., truth, it is not right to be. We're... we're finally putting together some ideas for Ciutadans like a smokescreen to topple the priorities of a party that defends banks and financial entities before citizens' rights. We're positioning ourselves in the other side of the gang, next to the people one more time. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.318.0	Thank you, Mrs. Casamitjana. They have the word now, to defend the papers presented, in the first place, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the lady Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.319.0	Thank you. Councillor, Members and Members, present to us a motion referring to the procedure approved by the Royal Decree Law 1/2017, of urgent measures for the protection of consumers in the matter of clauses only. This decree has clearly been ineffective, ineffective because it is not giving protection to consumers, and it is that protection is when the answer, in this case, to the Administration of Justice, is at the right time, and this does not happen in the mechanism that implements this decree. But we also believe that it is ineffective because there are other fears that need to be resolved in the protection of consumers who go beyond the clauses alone. All of this has resulted in the specialized provincial courts providing for this royal decree being seen to be overtaken by reality. Your royal mediation decree in which the banks resolve what they want and what is only foreseen by clauses only, must be replaced by an external body to the own bank and which serves for all claims arising from abusive clauses. That is why we proposed, in our first point, that Parliament should see the need to regulate the institutional system of protection of the client finance, as well as its organisation and functions in accordance with the forecasts of Law 7/2017 of 2 November, for which the European directive in this matter is incorporated into the Spanish legal order. We understand that this point is that we have proposed them to have a much more general view, much more complete, if I may, respecting the resolution that abusive clauses need, the ones alone, but as I said before also that the reality of banking practice has put us on the table. We also refer, to the considerations, that the General Council of the Judiciary leaves without effect the agreement of the same Council of 25 May 2017, which implemented the functioning of the courts that comply with consumer complaints for the abusive clauses of the banks, as well as their subsequent extensions. If this agreement is left without effect, the Law of the Judiciary and the Law of Civil Appeal would apply in all its effects, and the knowledge of consumers' claims against the bank for unfair terms would come into competition with first instance courts. In fact, because point 2 of his motion is completed, the first agreement of the council to which we referred should be left without effect. And lastly, we had two questions that were coming up in the line of asking the Government of the Generality to act as well. Because the Generality also has competitions in the proper functioning of the Administration of Justice, important competitions. And we would agree that there is a part of planning that corresponds to the State, a part of human media, justices and justices that correspond to the State, but that there is a part of the organization of the functioning of the same justices and the provision of means of those that are close to the Generality. And that's why we put two of them in the room. One, to fully equip the plants with the services of the Administration of Justice, the courts of first instance and of first instance and instruction, as well as the civil sections of the provincial hearings, that could become competent in appeals for claims of abusive clauses. The other was to prepare a study of the real needs of personal and material media, taking into account all the coverage of the service in the different judicial bodies competent in Catalonia for the knowledge of the civil courts for consumer complaints on abusive bank terms. We believe that there will be no demand from the Government of the State for certain actions in which we can agree and we agree, while we do not ask the Government of the Government of the State for competences in the field of the Administration of Justice. Miri, in this motion we will abstain because, from entering, we share the diagnosis that is being made; we share the objective, which must be to legislate the alternative to judicial complaints for abusive clauses, as regulated by European law and the law that you were told about in 2017, but what we cannot share is the drafting of the agreements that they propose to us, they understand that this young man is partial, does not contemplate the whole problem to which a solution is to be given, and, in addition, the Government of the Government of Catalonia is excluded from the solution of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.320.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ibarra. Next, there is the word Susana Segovia, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.321.0	Well, good one's late. I don't know if we're all aware of the people who are here that we're not really talking about justice, and that we're not talking about justice; well, yes, we're talking about injustice, we're talking about how power protects itself, as Hannah Arendt said. We are talking about speculative and financial interests and how governments often have these interests in front of citizens' interests. I can't be thinking that it's what suspiciously seems to be happening with the endearment that is causing Territory's advice on the approval of the Barcelona City Council agreement to allocate 30_percent of all new promotions to protected habitat. Mr. Calvet exposes many doubts; we have asked him to appear to explain who these doubts are, but we need to explain to us who the interests behind these doubts are. Why does he always talk about this public-private collaboration, and do we never know what it is that he is putting forward in this collaboration, public interests or private interests? And that's also what we're talking about here, when governments have before them private interests, speculative interests and financial interests before citizens' interests. I... it's just that talking about clauses only takes the hen's skin away, and it makes me a terrible shame to remember how institutions, how governments brought us from what was the real estate bin, which was the real estate station. Because the real estate fund was possible, the mortgage fund, because there was legislation that allowed it, there was legislation that used the banks to make this mortgage fund. All the legislative and executive machinery in favour of this – in favour of this – has been put in place, and it has brought us to the major housing crisis that this country has experienced in the last thirty, forty years, surely much more backward. Habitat policies continue to be primarily oriented, both to the State and here in Catalonia – it still goes on – towards the liberalisation of the logger market, towards speculation, to facilitate denunciations, and to allow things like denunciations with open data. Do you know what you mean, by an open date? It means you know what they'll do to you outside your house, but you don't know when they'll do to you outside your house. And as I've been seeing lately, and they can make out of your house to give them overnight with three Brimo units at the door. Or, as we saw yesterday and as the companies of the CUP made us think of this Parliament... that we had the city covered and occupied by units of Brimo and Mosses taking away people from their homes, and we here today are talking about the cells alone. It's just that it's a terrible shame, like we're late going to institutions at the time of giving an answer to this. We will support this motion for a resolution. And we have made a point, and it is certain that the repeal of Decree 1/2017..., surely the reform will solve a little, because basically that decree was the response of the People's Party government with the support of the Ciutadans lords, that what they did was disrupt the process so much to recover the money that the bankers were supertranquil. One thing that also brings us to all the conflict we've had with the mortgage tax, too. Bankers don't have a problem when there's a court that decides that there's something that they've done wrong and that they have to return money, because it's been since the execution, it's been since the same judiciary, another time they're wrong, and those who lose money are citizens. And they have spoken – the deputy of Esquerra Republicana – of being brave, and of a proposal of law that they have presented – we are very glad – but I want to remind them that there are other proposals of law; that at the Congress there is the proposal of housing of the PAH, that it does make an integral answer, that it does not only remain with the issue of abusive clauses, because abusive clauses are the result of a legal system that leads people to mortgage themselves for life and, above all, to sign the small letter for which they are speaking. So I want to ask them what the political groups are doing here when you do this debate in the chamber, or I want to know what the People's Party and Citizens are doing at the Congress Table. Can you hold the debate? Will they hinder it, as are all the legal proposals that impose social measures and transformations? Do you want to know what the Democratic Party, the PDECAT, will do? Why here perhaps will they vote in favour, but when they are there, those who pushed the express denunciation, who will vote when it's time to vote and debate this law? And above all – well, it's now a gift for them to vote in favour, for all that has been said here – but above all I want to know what the Socialist Party will do when this law is debated. I want to know what role the state government will play now when it sets differences with the government of Mariano Rajoy. So let's see who the measures are and who they are that they support. I believe that from this Parliament we must be brave, we must make these gestures, but above all we must translate it into the policies of the Government of Catalonia. In the part that does, I quit betting for speculative interests and you fund and post for the interests of people and the right to housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.322.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. Next, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word "Madam Maria Francisca Valle".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.323.0	Good afternoon, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Councillor and accompanying public. First of all, I would like to express our appreciation for the daily work and effort of the officials of the Catalan courts, especially the courts specializing in ground clauses, and also, of course, for the other Catalan officials, who are often working under terrible conditions. Having said that, I do not reveal anything new to you saying that the courts in Catalonia are collapsing and that the clause courts are running much more. There are four, three that point to trial, they are pointing to trial, by the end of 2019, and the number 50 of Barcelona is depending on the signals waiting for reinforcement measures to be faced – listen: reinforcement measures. In view of the question of the previous plenary session, we think, well, because Esquerra Republicana has taken advantage of the motions for resolutions that Citizens have presented to alleviate the collapse of courts and will bring us a motion in this regard. It is not that we had too much hope that it would be realized in this way, because Mrs Casamitjana asked the councilwoman a question, that what were the actions she was going to do to prevent that collapse, and the councilwoman did not give any. He only boasted that he had rejected the central government's proposal to set up another court in Barcelona as a reinforcement measure. That, listen, it's no surprise either, this doesn't come back to us now, because they make decisions that then really hurt us all. And they already have us used to, and I'm going to give you an example: the last legislature took the decision to reject the five hundred seats of officials summoned by opposition in 2015. And look, today we have nothing less than a 42_per_cent of interinity. Let us go on to say that in this group we agree with all the measures that can reverse this situation, whether or not they are extrajudicial. Now, what you do when you present us here is motion..., which only serves to cover up your incompetence. This really is a screen to say that guilt is out and that you demand, that is. And I ask you: who has the competence over the material and personal resources of the Administration of Justice? You, the Government of the Generalitat. Why, then, in the face of this limit situation where judges cannot do their work and the consequences are suffered by thousands of people who have been forced to go to court, why have they not made a motion with your powers? Why have they not accepted our amendments? They were going in this direction. Look, I'd really be blushing to come here and present this motion... that we don't say that it's not necessary, eye, don't be misled, we don't say that it's not necessary to deploy more judges, but I'd be blushing to ask that the courts be increased when those with them don't provide them with the necessary resources. And to give you an example, I will give you the example of Sabadell, who at the end of 2017 Madrid created the 9 and 10 courts, and had to be implemented by the end of this year. And yet, you have requested that it be paralyzed and carried out at the end of 2019. Why? For lack of resources? That's why they've paralyzed them. They've paralyzed them, they were created. But I would also feel baffled to belong to a party that presumes to be the champion in defending workers' rights and, however, when you have an opportunity to prove it, instead of making amendments that dignify the working conditions of officials, what you do is a small modification to the petition, so as not to bother the independence parties very much. That's what they've done. You guys are really spending the money on what you shouldn't. Do Evaluators Remember? Those political commissioners who wanted to implement last year and who were a body of inspectors parallel to the judicial inspection, who had to stop their feet from the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia telling them that where you are going, what you are going to do, that this cannot be done. But almost a hundred thousand euros were spent, let's see. You are leaving unprotected thousands and thousands of users who come to justice to claim their rights and cannot get a sentence within a reasonable time for lack of means. And they're leaving unprotected officials who, no matter how hard they work, can't multiply by ten. Officials, the great forgotten that only those who work in a space without humidity, with sufficient ventilation, with records in closets and not in chairs and on floors, to whom they owe the extra pay and who ask to be paid, and who want to go to their jobs without suffering squabbles in the doors of the courts. Look what you're asking for, working in decent conditions. We have proposed four amendments, but I will summarize them, and they have not been accepted. Provide the courts with more material and personal resources – provide the courts with more personal and material resources [[applause]] , and provide judges with more personal and material resources – because that is their responsibility. And that's what they can do. It's in his hand. Therefore, only in this way will the courts be able to function, only in this way will the civil servants be able to work in decent conditions and only in this way will the users who see their rights violated be able to access quality justice. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.324.0	Thank you, Mrs. Valley. Next, to fix his position, he has the word for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.325.0	There are motions that we see clearly that they have all the good intentions but that in their realization, therefore, we cannot agree with it because we think that the measures are not enough. This is one. And we wanted to start with this idea that they think you're well-meaning. First question, for us, as the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is not possible that we speak of clauses only and that we are not adopting, or it is not intended to take measures in relation to the bank. We have forgotten that the origin is a col·lapse provoked by a bad practice of banking entities. According to the question, we have already denounced what the Royal Decree law 1/2017 meant. And what it meant, of course, was to generate a mechanism of self-composition in which – and we said so – we could violate the fundamental rights. When they explained it to us, they told us that this would not be possible, but what we could see in the last few months is that the practice supposes that there may be a violation of fundamental rights. What do we find today, not only in the initial motion, but in the final motion in relation to the transactions that have taken place? So there are two agreements. A first one that refers to urging, in fact, that there be a modification of the Royal Decree Law 1/2017, to the effect of creating a new mechanism of extrajudicial resolution of conflicts. And what we have to say is that we should have realized what this out-of-court conflict resolution mechanism is to see if we could find ourselves again with a mechanism that we don't solve or that creates a new problem. Because we think that the solution is not generating – which is what happens with these mechanisms – a situation of strength towards the bank, which has all the time in the world, all the resources of the world and which wears through these extra-judicial mechanisms of conflict resolution. And the second of the proposals, which refers to increasing justice. We, as far as we know, have a competence that is state that is the plant and, therefore, we understand that there is this requirement in the Spanish State, but we also want to make it very clear that the plant must be accompanied by a staff. And in relation to staffing there has to be, in any case, a competence, which corresponds to the Government of Catalonia, and which does not appear, in relation to the second part of the motion. And one last question of technical character but sometimes also for us of political character. See this young man call us the attention that is required of the Spanish State, but the second petition is subsidiary. What does that mean? That we ask him first and if he doesn't give us an answer to the first, do we really have the second? Obviously, that's why we're abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.326.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. Subsequently, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, MP Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.327.0	Thank you, President. I'm speaking from the escó. It is clear that the measures provided for in Royal Decree 1/2017 have not been effective and the financial entities have not facilitated the return of imports collected unduly by the, probably abusive, clause such as the only, clause. From here on, thousands of citizens, all of them of good faith, have to go to fight with the entities in order to be able to collect what they have unduly collected from the entities, with which this means difficulties for the citizens from an economic point of view, and also time. Assign that we would also, therefore, give support, as it cannot otherwise be, to the increase of resources in the courts with reference, historically, to a deficit that they have of staff and media, as well as, obviously, of installations. And in this signifying aspect, therefore, that my city, in Badalona, has been waiting many years for a compromise of this type, because the state in which you are found to work is completely unacceptable. For all these reasons, in general terms, we will give support, even though at the first point we will abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.328.0	Thank you, Mr Albiol. To finish this round of positions, has the word deputy Marta Madrenas, in the name of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.329.0	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this Member, Mrs Casamitjana, who was trying to convey the concern of the Catalonian Parliament, also respects the situation of the lack of protection of all citizens in their relations in the field of consumption, and especially in the field of financing. In fact, it has a lot of meaning, because, you know, we know that from Catalonia there has always been a remarkable sensitivity to all these issues, with those that are especially concerned with the protection of consumers. I also understand that it is a touch of attention, instant the Spanish government so that it is more loving than it is even now in this concrete – concrete environment. It is worth saying that 2017, after these feelings that we all know, certainly implemented measures on the part of the Spanish government, cursing to regulate claims for abuses committed in the banking practice relating to mortgage-only clauses. Trying to avoid, and it was a good idea, the consumers affected, the legal way, is to say, trying to get them to go through the legal way. All in all, it is obvious – it is obvious – because we see the data, that the measures that were predicted were not enough, or, therefore, they were not adequate, because, for a band, we are all aware that some banks – some banks – still generate confusion with the intention of deterring complaints. I also believe that public actors have not adequately informed all the rights of all affected citizens, and that is why many citizens do not complain, because they do not even know that they are harmed. For another band, taking into account that 99_percent of the lawsuits that end up on the court track end up estimating consumer requests or petitions, does not have any meaning, is not reasonable, cannot accept, that the banks still continue to derive so many complaints on the court track. You can't understand. Finally, it is obvious, we also have the data, that there is a serious judicial collapse. In fact, I made a few quick numbers, I don't know, I don't think I was wrong, but the centrality of Barcelona, in divided_months, solved some 1,850 subjects. In these same months, almost thirty thousand persons have been placed in this same judgment. Therefore, if we continue with this same proportion of giving out in sentences, it seems that it may take more than 20 years if we continue with a single judgment, so to resolve these issues, and this is obviously not acceptable either. In these minutes, beyond... I don't know what I'm left with, a couple of minutes or three, beyond clearly expressing the support of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group for this young man, I think it may also be a good time to reflect on the protection of citizens when facing consumer situations with banking products. In the first place, I think it pays to remember, because it is not generally known, that the right of everyone to economic security is a human right, a human right referred to in Article 22 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And that's important to remember and keep in mind. And in this same statement, it is emphasized that the satisfaction of this right, the right to economic security, is indispensable for the dignity and free development of people. I am making it clear that this is not a minor issue, that it is not very substantial, and that its development cannot depend, in any case, on a greater or lesser sensitivity of one government or another. No, no, All governments – all governments – must feel called, forced to ensure the effectiveness of this human right of economic security. And it's as it's been going along all this time as a human right that social movements, consumer organizations across all these years have been decisive in modifying this public right. At first, to guarantee this economic security anava aimed at guaranteeing the freedom of trade, is to say, to give support to preserving that instrument which is known as the autonomy of the will and freedom of pacts. But in change, this has evolved. Fortunately and in favour of citizens and consumers. And now, the guiding thread of this preservation is human security. Nevertheless, I do not want to forget to forget to touch on a subject that I think is very important, and it is that we are all aware that consumption, also financing, is an important source of our society, but, nevertheless, in practice, the globality of consumers..., they have an alarming lack of financing culture. I think that this is a subject that has also to be addressed, among many others, and I leave it here because I don't have any more time, but we will support them, although it would obviously be better to have many more things in this area. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.330.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To position herself on the exams, has the word Mrs Magda Casamitjana, again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.331.0	Thank you very much, President. He will advise..., well, the reviews with the Socialist Party - Units to Advance, what we are sharing is that this system harms consumers. We insist, the problem did not generate it by the Generality. If thirty_ thousand assume the jutjats of Barcelona number 50– thirty_ thousand! – Do they really want us to believe that the problem is that the government puts a few middlemen in it? More than all the resources we've put in, for a lot of resources we put in, thirty thousand are many. For what you're doing to Ciutadans, what a shame, Mrs. De el Valle, because I..., we tried to position, and I thought you wouldn't have this whole thing, right now. But it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's wrong for the government to turn down five hundred seats, and you know it. We agreed with the state government on an opposition contest to give opportunities to people who are already working in justice and who are interns. Their considerations can be summed up with one: "First the bank, all for the bank. I'm sorry, I've already asked the president's permission, and I'm also asking the hemicle for an apology, because today is my last full day, and I still have a few little words to say goodbye to. First of all, I'd like to be in the place of my fellow prisoners. I'd love it if I were and maybe... to be able to express them as I've felt the times I've been told many thanks for seeing them. And everything I've heard today has hurt me so much. So, first of all, I'd like to be there, but don't leave me. I asked, but they wouldn't let me, they said no, that they were first, when I did exactly the same thing they were, and I should be there, to see if they were going to lock us all up. [[Greetings.]] I finish – and I finish – I finish very quickly, explaining... I sorted a text, very small, huh? , by Jaume Vicens Vives, in which I have always wanted, in my political life, that it was not only a tarannà, but it was a proposal of volguada life. So he says: "It is a proposition that you dedicate your daily work to the community. May you not, from now on, take the responsibility that you will have, tomorrow, when you will be the next. That you don't reject the hope of progress, or deny the heritage of your peers. And, above all, you think more about everything that we've built, that it's done us great, that it's not the things that have been imposed on us unfortunately for at times and for times. With this spirit of responsibility, humility, work, dialogue and firm compromise, I have also tried today, here, every day, to bring my life proposal with a grain of smile with all of you. Thank you very much for your patience, very much for your cooperation. I'll take you all to my heart, and to you, sirs, too. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.332.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Greetings.]] Thank you, Congresswoman, for the intervention, for the work done, for your taranna, and we are convinced that all folds we wish you very much luck in your new pocket, and that we will look at it in the record. In fact, this is his home; therefore, he will always be present. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] Let's get to the vote. We called for a vote. I don't know if there's any separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] I understand you don't. There are two points to the motion; therefore, we both vote at the same time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[The President laughs.]] Separate, I see. So let's vote first the first point. The vote on the first point begins. The first point was approved by 67 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote second and second from this young man. The vote begins. The second point was approved by 73 votes in favour, against and 55 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the sale of arms]] [[302-00033/12]] We now turn to the next item on the order of the day, which is the twenty-sixth point, the motion following the question to the Government on the sale of arms, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word of Congressman Rubén Wagensberg. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.333.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, President, Members, Members: we will find ourselves here again after the inquiry that we made to the Councillor, and, obviously, followed by the concern that generates us being responsible, as citizens, as citizens, of Catalonia, for the sale of weapons, and, above all, the final concern that this weapon brings about the death of thousands of people every year. We now find ourselves, the Spanish State, feeling the world-wide state of arms exporters. Last year it sold material worth 4,347_million euros. The interministerial commission to which the weapons manufacturers have to ask permission every time they make a sale, gave green light, during 2017, to 280_per_cent more sales than the previous year, a trend that all points to going to more. The Spanish State, therefore, has made a very clear bet, a political bet for the armamentist industry, which is a powerful industry, which is a daunting industry, while mating. While historically the clientele, we explained the other day, of the armament manufactured for the same Spanish companies was the same State, in the face of the crisis this armament stopped buying..., the same State. But, in turn, what the State did is help businesses sell, interfere directly to sell this weapon abroad. To supply, therefore, these internal sales to sell them to third countries. And the problem is not so much the volume, that also, but the destination of these exports, where we find many countries that clearly violate human rights. We find Israel, or we find many countries that are part of the coalition of Saudi Arabia, such as Egypt or the same Saudi Arabia, which are currently waging war on Yemen. Yemen, immersed in a war that the United Nations has already qualified as the greatest human catastrophe of the present day, on 22_million– 22_million– of the 29_million who live there need humanity's help to survive. And there are so many people who need help to survive, for a reason: the reason is that the bombings that took place in the last three years, for one band, and for the other, the maritime blockade imposed for Saudi Arabia, with ships that arise, between other places, from the Spanish State. Therefore, we cannot give as good the arguments of the President of the Spanish State when he claims that he prioritizes maintaining economic relations and commercial relations with Saudi Arabia or that he prioritizes guaranteeing work places to Badia de Cadis, because they are totally out of place declarations, statements that we consider to be totally macabre, because the economy and international relations must be in the service of life. The pitjor declarations were not these, but when I said that «the responsibility of this government comes to our borders, what third countries can do is not the responsibility of this government. So, look, while saying this to the President of the Spanish Government, we are skipping in a scandalous way the Arms Trade Treaty ratified by Spain in 2014; criterion II of the common position of the European Union; the Resolution of 27 September of the European Parliament, which is of the opinion that concrete exports to Saudi Arabia do not exactly comply, as at least, with criteria II, and the petition of 26 February 2016, reiterates the urgent need to impose an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia, and the report of this very August 2018 of the Council of Human Rights of the United Nations, which recommends refraining from sub-administration of weapons that can be used in the war in Yemen. Spanish weapons are not at risk of being used in the Yemeni War: they are found to be used; there are photographs of how Spanish weapons are used in the Yemeni War. And not just Yemen, but these weapons that Saudi Arabia acquires are often coming to rebel forces, to Gihadist forces that wage war in countries like Syria. In the same way that the corbetes manufactured for Navantia to Badia de Cadis are used to impose the blockade and the arrival, therefore, of resources to Yemen. So, and I told you the other day, in this Parliament some of our parties are constantly asking for a lot of transparency, "it's urgent every day, and the truth is that we can't agree more. We agree and therefore place them from here to scratch, to investigate, to denounce all that can be done by the Spanish arms industry, starting with the monarchy and its commissions, totally bloodstained, defence ministers like Pedro Morenes, who are also or have been one of the country's leading arms companies, who during his term of office, certainly, his undertakings have been paid up to 115_million euros on behalf of the Government, or, on the other hand, other defence assets that end up being linked to armaments that generate millions and millions of euros, while generating millions and millions of refugees and thousands of deaths each year. The refugees – we also said the other day – that as they try to escape from the violence caused by our weapons, the weapons of our companies..., they also benefit by raising borders that do not allow them to escape their countries or enter countries where they can be safe, as is the case with the Spanish State. We have the option, among all of us, to debate and position ourselves clearly, concisely and decisively...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.334.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.335.0	...on this subject. So – I'm done, President – either we're in favour of terror or we're in favour of life. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.336.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Susana Beltrán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.337.0	Thank you, President. We are in favour of life, obviously; the one that passes, that I believe that in this question it should be made clear that the first person responsible for the killing of civilians and, therefore, the killing of innocent people are the parties in conflict. Why have we submitted papers? Because the conflicting parties are not only Saudi Arabia, but also the Houthi rebels raised for Iran and all the conflicting parties. In the international human rights, it is not a question of who uses these weapons, the reason why he uses them, but of using them against the civilian population, against innocent people. And yes, one of the other things that we don't like about this young man is that he uses in a whole... – how to qualify him? – perhaps pejoratiu, pejoratiu mass of Spain, when effectively in Spain the Catalan arms companies..., one of the main customers is precisely Saudi Arabia. And Catalonia and the Basque Country are responsible for the largest sale of weapons to the State, or to our country, Spain. And effectively, Mr d'Esquerra, ultimately, the main person responsible for everything that happens to our territory is Spain, but it also has to be talked about Catalan companies that sub-manage weapons to kill, so innocent people, civilians, not only in Yemen, but also in other countries. Who's Ciutadans' position? We have said this at the Congress of Deputies and we have also said this in the European Parliament: we believe that this is a very important issue, we are very European, we believe that there must be a common foreign policy and that in the case of the European Union it is where we have to work because, therefore, there is also a common position around the situation of Yemen, which is indeed very dramatic. And, finally, I'd like to dedicate a few words to which I think he's already a former Foreign Affairs advisor. On behalf of my party, wish him much luck on this new project. It has before it a good European candidate, and, therefore, from my party wished it a lot of luck. It was precisely you yesterday that it was very important that Catalonia had an action outside Europe and that you felt the view of Europe, and also the view of Catalans in Europe. The problem is which way this Catalans' view of Europe feels. If the strategy is to be a destructive strategy, to speak poorly of Spain or its institutions, then it is likely that you too will lose a part of Catalonia and a part of the Catalans who do not think or feel like you. Catalonia and Catalans in Europe are also, for example, Mr Josep Borrell. We do not agree with many things that Mr Josep Borrell does, but in 2004 a català was president of the European Parliament, he was president of 500_million European citizens; I thought at that time: "What a luxury! What a luxury to have a català as President of the European Parliament! Two years later, in 2014, a Catalan association, composed of Catalans, Catalan Civil Society, European Citizenship Awards for the European Parliament; I believe that this is also Catalonia, I believe that this is also Europe. We have been, in Europe, we are in Europe and we will continue to be there. But the difference with you is that we prefer to work for the motto of the European Union, which is "units in diversity, in accounts to destroy. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.338.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now, to fix its position, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to move forward. Mrs. Eva Granados has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.339.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillor, Councillor, Members and Members, this issue is not only of high political sensitivity, but also of high political complexity. And in this complexity the motion adds, we believe, the hard mistake of strictly linking the sale of arms with the Yemeni conflict, when it is a very complex geopolitical conflict and with a great diversity of forces involved directly or indirectly, from national factions confronted to international actors. The war on Yemen, which has lasted since 2015, is a humane catastrophe, marked by the heavy crimes of the various facsimile that confront and are committed..., and also by the situation of violence, of fame and ills suffered by the civilian population. Today we also know the report of Save the Children, up to 85,000 children who could have died at will from 2015 to Yemen. It is clear that we share, as the Government of Spain does and as all our European partners do, the urgent need to end this war, and therefore from the European Union and from the Western countries, to do everything possible to promote and build the peace. And in this sense, we consider the only viable solution for the Yemeni people to be a negotiated political solution, through dialogue, to be the dialogue. We add to the support given by the European Union, the special envoy, in Martin Griffiths, in his willingness to take this process forward, as well as the difficulties evidenced in the last summit of dialogue in Geneva in September, but today we also want to welcome the news that announce the beginning of talks in September, it seems that the two parties in conflict will be able to follow the same table. The situation of Yemen, like the case of Khaixoggi, manifest the need to review some of the current commercial relations for which it does to some factors, is obvious. But not only for what he does to the Government of Spain, but he can trace these new relationships in the framework of a common and coordinated strategy at European level and development..., a new relationship and a new common position on the sale of arms and restrictions on this, too, with our European partners. Spain has, and you know, a legal framework and good practices for what it does to the arms sales sector. In fact, Law 53/2007 was not rejected because of the parties that support the Government at these times, on the control of foreign trade in defence and dual-use materials, in line with the most demanding international standards. Moreover, Spain also acts in accordance with other instruments applicable to the subject matter: the common position of the European Union of 2008, which introduces strict criteria to follow; the ECO document, also on small arms and light weapons, and the various guidelines emanating from the international non-proliferation forums. And, therefore, the authorization for the export of defence material is subject to these international requirements. What we are talking about, however, is the contracts in force, contracts in force signed by previous governments, pre-existing governments that comply with the rules applicable to our country and that do not contradict this resolution of the United Nations Security Council of the year 2015. Therefore, as we see it, it is the government's obligation to give response and legal certainty and certainty on the compliment of Spain's international obligations. It is in this European framework that the review of relations by Spain and the European Union must be based on respect for the contracts which have been signed for the previous Government, which are in force and which constitute international commitments and obligations of our country, regardless of whether they please us more or less and which, as any compromise, we must accept. I'm done. It is essential, speaking of the review of relations, to develop this review of relations in a coordinated way with the European institutions, with the rest of our European partners, and also taking into account the members of the European Union in the world, in order to achieve the possible shortcomings of the model that we see today. We believe that the objective of the debate on this review cannot be in any case the electoralism or political positioning of some groups; the objective of this review must be the protection of rights and fundamental freedoms, without which there can be no pau, there can be no security or human development. And in order to achieve this, we need to do it jointly and coordinatedly here, which is at the hands of our members of the European Union. We regret that to the question made by the deputy to Councilman Maragall, therefore the councilman has made use of that inquiry and the debate to disqualify a government and a minister who has so far demonstrated his commitment to the defense of human rights and the promotion of the pau. Thank you very much. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.340.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of the deputy Jessica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.341.0	Yes, thank you, President. Today, Mr. Wagensberg presents to us a motion that reverses the requests of the NGOs that form part of the campaign Arms Sota Control to the state, Amnesty International, FundiPau, Greenpeace and Oxfam-Intermón, a motion that is focused on the sale of weapons to Saudi Arabia, but that I would like to expand a little more focus and talk about the death industry. Since the invasions of Afghanistan in 2001 and Iraq in 2003, the sale of arms has not stopped growing. Now we are in a time of wars localized in countries like Syria or Yemen, and that has been the alibi of the great powers to reactivate a new global rearmament that smooths the world for a pendant that is very dangerous. The new geopolitical landscape has done nothing more than multiply the production of weapons and, at the same time, violations and violations of international law and human rights. In the Spanish case, since 2017 exports of military equipment have almost reached 4,500_million euros, and in the case of Catalonia we have twenty-six companies that are dedicated to the manufacture of war material, that give work around nine_ thousand people and that make about 2,900_million euros, according to the data of the Centre Delàs d'Estudis per la Pau. And, therefore, we are faced with a global problem, and this therefore forces us to seek alliances with other actors to face it at the same level. Because with human rights, with peace and security in the world, we don't think we can negotiate. Our support for this expressed motion that no country – no country – which flagrantly and daily violates human rights can be a partner to whom to sell arms. It is not a moral issue, which also, but it must add to the principle of legality, because the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia contravenes all the legalities, starting with the legality of the State but also the European and also the international. On the contrary, contrary to what Pedro Sánchez claims, the Government of Spain has obligations beyond its borders. We do not understand how one thing can defend Europe and the government of Spain. Sánchez should listen more to his European partners, his European companies and companies, because we already know who does the negotiations with Saudi Arabia: he makes them a monarchy that with one hand does corrupt negotiations and with the other encourages the sale of arms to countries that systematically violate human rights, and they also do the ex-People's Party negotiations, as Mr Ruben Wagensberg has already mentioned before. Another issue that also seems important to us: in questions affecting human rights, partyism and hypocrisy should be left behind, and I am saying this because it is inexplicable that Junts for Catalonia use Saudi Arabia as a weapon against the Spanish government, but at the same time do not criticize a state that is supremacist and racist like that of Israel, that sets it as an example and pretends that Catalonia has a privileged relationship with them. [[Greetings.]] And I'm sure that Mr. or Mrs. Junts will come out for Catalonia carrying this motion and will say no to me, but then it would not be understood that in different motions for a resolution to the Committee on Foreign Affairs they voted against or abstained when it was demanded that the sale of arms to Israel be prohibited. Therefore, if these are the allies with whom you want to count for the future, we already tell them that they are not ours, because the international right, democracy and the right of self-determination should also be for the Palestinians and for all the peoples of the world. And as the last point is that there are those who are testifying to pose a false dilemma that would confront, from one band, the right to work from which life is made, from which it stands with the subs of Navantia to Cadis, that it must be remembered that it is the province that has the most of the state and that is almost up to 40_%, and, for another band, the right to the life of countries like Yemen. According to this, those responsible for the deaths of civilians are serious for Andalusian workers and workers, and we believe that this is a chant that is intolerable. So, what do we do? So let's just say that in the short term we have to bear in mind that the existing contracts cannot disappear, nor can the Andalusian workers and their families be left behind, and that, therefore, the Government of Spain, what should be done is to deal with the economic import of these contracts, assuming the workload and the workload of the Drassanes. And, on the other hand, we also believe that we should be serious about a new product model, not just in Andalusia or Cadis, but also in Catalonia, and that there would be both the leaders of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left, because the military industry is transformed once and for all – but that, gradually, because we already know that they can't do it one year for another – in a civil industry where the workers who are living here can survive and continue to have a decent way of life. Therefore, we are talking about a new product model with added value, a product model that allows us to be at the forefront of a new industrial model that has to be sustainable for life, and we are convinced that it can and cannot be excused. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.342.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.343.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Well, for our part, say we give support to the assembly of the young man. Just make some little observations. We are talking about the transfer of arms; we think that we should talk about this clearly by means of the sale of arms. We are talking about 'presumptive war crimes', we think we should talk about 'war crimes' and 'war crimes'. And obviously, it is a motion that is focused on the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia as a result of Yemen's conflict, which we share and agree with; but we actually consider that this motion for a resolution gives continuity and represents the hope of that which we have..., of the motion for a resolution that we approved in July 2016 in this Parliament, 55/11 on the demilitarization of our country and our territory. And in this sense, it seems to us very relevant that we continue to work in this line, because effectively what to put into the question is the production and sale of weapons in general, not only in Saudi Arabia, but effectively in the State of Israel and in any other armed conflict or militarized state, effectively. What we need to achieve is that our country, Catalonia, ceased to be a producer and a seller of weapons anywhere in the world. This is the objective that we must address, because effectively the problem of the sale of weapons forms part of a broader problem, which is the military industrial complex, where we find these connections between armies, political powers, financial powers, international mafias, militarized states and violent reins of the world. This is where we have to put the barrier from the point of view of our country and our society. But it is that, moreover, this forms part of a state and a society with a militarized culture that can also fight, and in this sense we also think that we should continue to struggle for such a way as to make out the Spanish army and that any army is left out of our territories, our country, out of the halls of teaching, out of the young flames of our villains and cities, because a fundamental struggle to avoid the arms industry is to fight militaristic culture and militarizing culture. And, therefore, we also need to make an impulse to take out any army, and also the Spanish army, of our territories, which, in our case, forms part of the military industry of war, death and destruction, and is also an army of occupation. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.344.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Ms. Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.345.0	The truth is that the interventions that have preceded me give to make a more extensive intervention, probably because of the ignorance of the comments of not knowing exactly what it is dedicated to and what mission our army is currently engaged in. But I cannot refrain from telling Mrs de Podemos in Catalonia that, please, this debate that you have given us here..., that you are inviting her to campaign to Andalusia these days and goes and tells Mr. Kichi, because, of course, on the TV show, in Salvados, when asked, it was not very clear what she was going to do with those more than six_ thousand jobs, and those contracts worth 1,800_million that she was going to lose if Navantia's contracts were lost there. Therefore, do not come here to demagogy, you will do it to Mr Kichi, and you will clarify between yourselves what is the position on this issue. Because these kinds of initiatives must be presented with the utmost responsibility, as we are talking about a sector that employs some 210,000 people. Therefore, it would require rigour, especially because they do not know that the Spanish arms contracts contain a last-destination control clause, allowing the contract to be suspended if it is shown that the purpose for which the arms are intended is different from that stated at the time of the sale of the arms. Export controls must be strengthened to ensure that they are not used for human rights violations... or international legislation. Spain does not trade with countries that are vetoed by the UN. We are part of the European Union and we act as such. Don't use this motion for the contempt of Spain, which is what you want to do..., the occupying forces you were talking about. I believe that on this subject we must be, as I said, far more rigorous, not demagogic, because the respect for human rights to which we are committed is perfectly compatible with those signed agreements which guarantee the maintenance of employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.346.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And now it's the turn of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The word is made out by Mr. Francesc De Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.347.0	Thank you, President. President, councillor, advisers, deputies, deputies. Most especially, Magda Casamitjana, we'll find you very much missing the deputies of the mountain. Listen, this young man we see today is neither from Esquerra, nor from the Communes, nor from the CUP or from Juntes per Catalunya. In fact, it is from Amnesty International, FundiPau, Oxfam and Greenpeace, which are the anime of the campaign« Weapons under control, which has been working for years because trade in arms is transparent and legal, and if it is working it is because it is usually obscure and illegal, and it speaks specifically about the war in Yemen. Look, with Yemen now it's going to be a little bit like we've been through a lot with the war in Bosnia. If you remember, some of the people you had worked on, you worked in an assailed city, which was bombarded, full of snipers, and when you wanted to return home crossings under a tunnel that was at the airport, you came up with transport pods that ships were looking for until Split, Split took the ferry, if you had a lot of luck taking a plane to Rome and, if not, you would return by land to Barcelona, that Olympic Barcelona, wonderful, winning, and in which people lived from the skeleton to the conflict that was passing to the Balkans. What did you do at the time for Bosnia? So this is what our children asked us: what did you do in 2018 for Yemen? The Yemen, now explained very well Ruben Wagensberg, three years and a half of war, the greatest human catastrophe at these times, as said United Nations, a sifra that is spreading: a country of 30_million people in which 22 cannot survive without human help, that United Nations has already told us: "It will be the worst catastrophe of fame if we don't do something quick. And the campaign « Arms under control had confidence in the government of Pedro Sánchez. In fact, he expressed it that way, and now he shows a deep disappointment through a letter that he sent him, because the socialist government told him that they did not find any reason to cancel the sending of precision bombs to Saudi Arabia, according to the arms trade deal. And these same NGOs have answered them: "The Government of Sánchez runs the risk of being complicit in the commission of war crimes to Yemen, as it flagrantly violates Article 6 of the arms trade treaty. I told them that our children would ask us: "And you, what are you doing? There is a position, which is the best, which is what these organizations and their partners do to which we support, which is to act. There is another that is ethically reprehensible, that is looking at another side and not doing anything. And there's another one that's unworthy and punishable, that's helping to make this war crueler and more bloody, and that's exactly what the Spanish State is doing, and that's what we want to denounce with this young man. They'll find us there, they'll find us together for Catalonia, because neither now nor in the future Catalan Republic do we want to be arms exporters, we want to be right-wing exporters. And look, in a way, we already do. And when we talk about arms trade, and non-violence, pacifism, and when they see the Wagensberg or the Dalmases here, they say, "Well, these things, these their things. So look, we've recovered a report, which may interest them, from someone who was suspected of being extremely left-wing, who asked him, who was a North American president at the beginning of the 90's, Bill Clinton, and said, "How could we do that because the defense of the pau was cheaper? And the Carnegie Foundation for the International Pau presented you with a report that you know how it is? « Self-determination in the new world order. And I'm summarizing them. Do you know what he was saying? That eight of the conflicts in the world can be resolved by applying uncertainly, taking into account the parts, know and recognize each of the parts involved in a conflict, would allow us a peaceful resolution of these. This means using political tools to resolve political conflicts, and in this sense, I think we have anticipated it. We give our support to all and each of the points of this young man, and we regret that once again the Spanish State, also in the international arena, is part of the problem and not part of the solution. We don't follow it as accomplices and that once again the Parliament of Catalonia responds with a speech of human rights, democracy and civics in front of which... those who triage dignity and life in accounts of bombs and death. I deixi'dir one last thing. When I heard that the representative of the Socialist Group spoke of negotiation with Yemen, I found that he had a democratic sensitivity directly proportional to the distance of the conflict, because if you have a conflict here, you answer with exile and in prison, as if you ask a table of negotiation with Yemen? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.348.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers has the word the deputy Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.349.0	Thank you, President. I take advantage of the welcome, which I have not done before, to the entities that accompany us, because, Mrs. Granados and Ciutadans's companions, this motion that we present today is neither partyist nor electoralist. This young man here today has sent us the full text from Amnesty International, FundiPau, Greenpeace and Intermon-Oxfam. So, from the electorate, nothing. I think they must have sent it to you, too. In any case, friends of Ciutadans, the shares involved are the final responsible. Yes, but it's just that we're the ones who come with the guns to one of the concrete parts, and exactly what we're asking is that it's no longer selling weapons in this particular part. When he speaks that the Basque Country is seen armament, that in Catalonia they come, and that much armament comes out for Barcelona, for the port of Barcelona, we have no problem to recognize it, and we can say here the name and all of the banks: « the Box, 87_million euros from 2011 to 2016 invested in armament; Banc Sabadell; the Basque Country, BBVA, Indra. There is no problem in denouncing Catalan companies involved in the sale of arms. MP of the PSC, yes, I do believe that your position is partly due to be part of a party that is now ruling in the Spanish State. And, therefore, from here I would ask them to work sincerely, to work internally to look to reverse, to look to correct this situation, to look to cancel these contracts that are still in force, and above all to look at what goes on..., that no more is meant. And the PP would just like to add that these clauses that he was talking about, this is done to the interministerial body, to JIMDDU, an organization that validates 99_percent of the petitions he has, and it's an organization he has..., his acts are completely secret and confidential. Therefore, we do not know how to assess the risk that these weapons will not end Yemen. I take advantage of the two remaining members to take me over from Congresswoman Casamitjana, and I also take advantage of Councilman Maragall, for the short but intense..., intense days that we have passed, that we will find to miss as a councilman, but that, selfishly, we are also happy to recover him as a member of the parliamentary group. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.350.0	Thank you, Congressman. Before asking if they want to make separate votes, allow me also to add to the thanks of Councillor Maragall. From the very Ple will no longer be as a counselor, but we will get him back as a deputy; therefore, we are not very happy, from this point of view, that he has joined the parliamentary work again. So, thank you for the work done as a counselor, and hopefully you'll do the same, and better, as a deputy. Thank you very much, Counsellor Maragall. [[Greetings.]] Let's get to the vote. Anyway... separate votes, Mrs. Granados? [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yeah, say, say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.351.0	There are only two points; therefore, separate votes from the points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-11-22-2002.352.0	It's easy, yeah. [[Long break.]] Put your vote to the vote. We will vote separately, so point 1 and point 2. I'm voting for 1 of this young man. The vote begins. This was approved by 70 votes to four, with 53 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote for the second and last of this young man. The vote begins. This point was approved by 70 votes to 57, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] There's no point in the order of the day. The session's up. Thank you very much.
