ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.1.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. It's part of the session. [[Discussion on child protection (continuation)]] [[255-00005/12]] Let us begin with the debate on the protection of children, with the debate on motions for resolutions. Before we begin, however, I am sure that Mrs Mònica Sales has returned today and has withdrawn her delegation from the vote. Therefore, we give them the welcome again: welcome, deputy. We shall then proceed to the presentation of the subsequent motions for resolutions to the debate on child protection. At the end of the debate, we shall vote on these motions for resolutions. For the defence of proposals, there is a turn of interventions for a maximum of two minutes for each parliamentary group and, consequently, five minutes for each subgroup. Initially it has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.2.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Members, Members, Councillors, guests and entities who accompany us, today is an important day, because we are talking about the future, we are talking about how to improve the lives of future generations. Before all else, I would like to thank the entities that have worked together in the past few days, not only with our group, but with all of them, to bring forward measures that will help protect children and ensure equal opportunities in childhood and adolescence. Before yesterday we made an analysis of the situation of children's policies, and, despite the government's lack of self-criticism, I think there was quite a consensus on the insufficient investment in children that currently exists in Catalonia. Let us remember that we are below the Spanish average and in the light years of the European one. That was one of the reasons why, from Citizens, we proposed the holding of this Plenary: to focus on these policies and to force the Government to take seriously the need to invest in children and to improve the management that is being done by the Council. If we manage to raise awareness of the Government a little bit, if we succeed in breaking that layer of impermeability and increasing the budget for children in the coming budgets, I think we can all agree that the effort will have been worth it. Because investment in children is one of the best social and economic investments an administration can make for future generations; it is what it can do for that one_of_each_four Catalan children living below the poverty line. Because talking about inequality and poverty in childhood is talking about losing talent, because talent doesn't understand social classes, talent grows everywhere, and we need to ensure equal opportunities for that talent to come out and not be lost. What do we propose, from Citizens, to ensure such equal opportunities? We propose support; so that an intolerance or food allergy do not ruin families, and also so that the socio-economic status of families does not limit access to culture; we propose that families, when they arrive in September, do not have to choose between filling the fridge or buying textbooks for the school. Free textbooks. We are not asking for anything that, in some other communities, at the request of Citizens, has not already been done. It can be done. We can relieve many families of the pressure, effort and financial balance that they have to do when September comes and..., have to get money from where they can pay for books and school materials. We propose to put an end to the paralysis in which the Government is sinking, and to deploy, once and for all, the law we passed in 2010, on the rights and opportunities of children and adolescents. And we want a report on the implementation of the Children's Covenant. Because covenants should not serve only to take a photo, covenants must be fulfilled. The administration must guarantee the protection of the youngest, and the measures to guarantee that protection have room in that Catalonia with which some of us dream, for which we fight from the institutions. A Catalonia where pediatric ratios are the right ones. A Catalonia where access to child-to-child mental health care is guaranteed. A Catalonia where children don't have to study in barracks. A Catalonia where education from zero to three years is universal. A Catalonia that offers students the knowledge necessary to be open to the world, with a true education in English. A Catalonia where the academic result does not depend on the socio-economic level of families. In short, a Catalonia where equality of opportunity is really guaranteed in children. A Catalonia that conducts a study on something that concerns many families: the impact of new information and communication technologies and gambling. Worry about putting the necessary tools in the hands of children to make good use of new technologies, and prevent abuse or misuse of them. Information is the best prevention, so we also propose powerful campaigns, in schools and in leisure spaces, that protect them from harassment, or cyberbullying; from the scourge of child abuse or abuse; from macho violence, and from discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity. In ten_minutes it is impossible to detail all the measures we have proposed, there are almost a hundred measures. And two years ago we demonstrated that they could be carried out. We demonstrated, with our amendments in the 2017 budgets, that by cutting into high offices, protocol measures, by cutting into institutional advertising, or by eliminating unnecessary bodies, for example, 40_million for these free textbooks, or almost 24_million for free education from zero to three, or 24_million, too, for training in English. And it was a pity that the Government blocked our amendments, and we hope that the next budgets would include the necessary items for these measures to become a reality. And, if not, they will find us to denounce that the Government has other priorities; to denounce also the poor situation in which the child protection system is found, because in our proposals we have dedicated a specific section to trying to solve this system, which must ensure the well-being of children and young people under their care. Because the outbursts in the past legislature were countless: the dismantling of the sexual exploitation network that captured underprivileged children, strong trade union criticism, with reception centers that were already out of date, and with a DGAIA director general who was more concerned about self-granting billion-dollar subsidies than putting some order in the system. Some of us have the feeling that the Government is shielding itself from increasing the arrival of unaccompanied minors to justify the collapse of the system. But the problem was already coming from afar. They can't say that this situation has happened, because many of us have been alerting him for a long time. We alerted him from the opposition, we alerted him from the centers themselves, from the unions and from the Collège d'Educadors i Educadores Socials, which, for years, has been calling for a reform of the protection system. Educators must also be protected, professionals must be protected so that they can carry out their educational and therapeutic work in conditions. Because, look, only in the first half of this year, workers in public institutions had suffered ninety assaults. And the public centers represent only 20_per_cent of the guardianship centers. I do not want to imagine what will have happened in the concerted centres, with the absolute lack of transparency that exists. And that is why we ask to improve the transparency in the management of the centers belonging to private foundations, and to carry out audits of the functioning of the centers and of the processes of award of public contracts of the Generalitat. It is impossible to conceal the precarious working conditions of many of the workers in the concerted centres of the child protection system. And it is impossible to hide that, since the 1990s, public places of educators are not called. The situation has been unsustainable for years, and the arrival of unaccompanied minors has only shown that the system was already watering. We call for an urgent restructuring of the system, because when we talk about unaccompanied minors we are talking about young people who have had to leave their homes, leave their families behind, travel thousands, even tens of thousands of kilometres, alone, many arrive emotionally broken, in deplorable sanitary conditions, and our Children's Law obliges the Generalitat to offer them a space where they can feel safe and accompaniment where bonds and respect are generated, among other things. But the historical underfunding of child care and the inaction of counselling in the past has prevented this from happening. We know it's not going to be easy to fix it. This problem has been turned back so long, it has been chronicled. Therefore, we must put all the necessary resources to resurrect the child protection system – I see that I have little time left. We prioritize; we prioritize in childhood. To prioritise in childhood is to pay dinner grants, to ensure free education from zero to three years, to ensure that textbooks are free and that our children and young people have an adequate level of English. Let us fight child poverty, as it has consequences not only for health, but also for school outcomes. And low training has a strong link to low job expectations. Early childhood education is the best investment to improve equality of opportunity in the long term, it is the best social lift. We live in difficult times. Some of us are very concerned about the rupture in two of Catalan society. And we are convinced that if there is one thing that can unite us with all Catalans, it is the effort to achieve a society where equal opportunities are guaranteed. That is social cohesion. And from Citizens we will work hard so that in Catalonia any child can aspire, in his or her future, to arrive where he or she proposes and be sure that he or she will have the possibilities and opportunities to reach his or her dreams. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Congresswoman Beatriz Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.4.0	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. On Tuesday, President Tora stated, at the beginning of this monographic plenary session devoted to children, that children and adolescents in Catalonia were the centre of his Government's public policies. The figures offered to us by the OECD, Eurostat and Idescat itself point to the opposite: Catalonia has a level of wealth proper to a developed country in Western Europe, but a level of child poverty equivalent to that of a poor country or at least one of the poorest countries in the European Union. In the European context, only two countries have higher child poverty rates than Catalonia: Romania and Bulgaria. However, if we compare Catalonia's wealth with Romania or Bulgaria, we find that Romania's per capita gross domestic product is 9,600_euros, and Bulgaria's per capita gross domestic product is 7,300_euros, far from the nearly 30,000_euros of Catalonia's per capita gross domestic product. The guilt that we have one of our children living below the poverty line..., it is not the fault of the Spanish State, it is our fault, because for years we have decided to spend our resources on other issues and children have not been a political priority. It is true that probably part of Catalonia's citizenship does not consider the welfare of children to be an essential issue, as are neither the health waiting lists for some of the political representatives of this Parliament. We accept that child poverty and the effects of cuts in education, health or housing on the most vulnerable families in Catalonia are not essential for many people and not for some of the members of the political parties that are part of the Government; but there is another part of Catalonia, which is no less important, which considers these issues to be essential and should be a top political priority. Undoubtedly, they are essential for those families who have no way of coping with the rent payment, who live in rehousing, who cannot heat their home in winter, buy school supplies or even give a proper meal to their children. These issues are also essential for children living in DGAIA-dependent care centres, who have become increasingly precarious; for educators who try to give the best of themselves to these children, but who have fewer and fewer resources to do their job; and for professionals who care for children at risk in open centres, in school reinforcement programmes, in mental health programmes and in all services designed to cater in different ways to the most disadvantaged children. They are also important for pediatricians who do not give enough, who go home every day with the anguish of whether they have been able to give adequate attention to every child who has gone through their consultation in the few minutes they have been able to devote to them. Many of these professionals were, two weeks ago, protesting outside the doors of this Parliament, explaining all these issues and demanding to reverse the cuts that have been dragging in since 2010. Because it would be good to remember today, here, that it was the government presided over by Mr Artur More, that it is not alien to the one that currently governs in Catalonia, that it was the pioneer of the cuts in Europe and that it also showed of these austerity policies that we have inherited and that have ended up causing the social emergency that we live today. That is why my parliamentary group has tabled almost a hundred measures which we estimate costing EUR 600 million. It is impossible to list all of them here, but I would like to highlight at least some of them. We want Catalonia to have a figure equivalent to that of the High Commissioner for the Fight against Child Poverty, similar to that created by the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez; a cross-cutting figure, with the rank of adviser, who has the task of turning the welfare of children into a backbone of all public policies. Last Tuesday, the councillor of Afers Socials tried to approve here the creation of a new secretariat for children with this figure. We are not talking about this; it is about going much further, so that the way in which all the activity of the Government of Catalonia is organized is aimed at designing programmes of action that can reduce our rate of child poverty to the level of countries that have a wealth similar to that of Catalonia. We also want to implement policies focused on families that are suffering the most severe forms of poverty, which are concentrated on single-maritime families, but also on children of Roma ethnicity and of non-Community origin. The latest data on child poverty indicate that 60_percent of children of immigrant origin live below the poverty level in Catalonia. The case of single-maritime families is particularly worrying, as more than 40_percent of them are below the poverty level. Because of their extreme precariousness, they are forced to share overworked floors, illegally occupy and constantly suffer evictions that affect the physical, cognitive and emotional development of children living the permanent instability with anguish and fear. We need shock measures to address all these extreme situations. The arrival of the crisis caused a serious fall in the income of the poorest families in Catalonia, especially those households that had children in their care, which are still unrecovered. Catalonia not only has more child poverty than the European average, but the more severe the more indicators measure it. If we use the thresholds that capture the most acute forms, child poverty in Catalonia is 46,5_per_cent higher than the European average. We would also like to stress, within these ninety-six measures, the urgency of addressing violence against children. In Catalonia, around 17_per_cent of the child population suffers sexual abuse, but only detects, at best, a 2_per_cent of the cases. In line with what Save the Children proposes, we believe that we should create children's cases, such as those in Iceland and Sweden, which bring together under the same roof all departments involved in a case of sexual abuse, in order to prevent children from having to repeat their story several times. We also want all primary and secondary schools to incorporate a social educator to ensure compliance with the sexual abuse protocols, which are currently not working. These ninety-six measures also include a shock plan for families with dependent children to have access to social housing, and others that have already been passed several times in this Parliament, such as the deployment of the Children's Act, which has been parked since 2010. We welcome the intention of the Government of Catalonia to support our proposal to guarantee the right to education on an equal footing, but we hope that this will translate into a budgetary commitment to implement the Decree of an inclusive school and the set of services that seek to ensure equal opportunities, such as the recovery of the school dining room in schools and access to all activities that guarantee the reduction of the educational gap. In particular, we want to insist on the outstanding commitment to regain the co-responsibility of the Government of Catalonia in sustaining the education service at the zero-three stage in a third of its funding. We are concerned that the EUR 20 million announced by the Government in its budgets are far removed from this commitment and also from what was invested in 2010. As I said at the beginning of my speech, all these measures do not have an insurmountable cost for an economy like Catalonia, which has an annual total budget of 35,000_million_de_euro. It is perfectly possible to allocate EUR 600 million for our childhood. The Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez has been able, in a few months, to put on the table resources to improve the situation of children with budgets inherited from the Government of the People's Party. The budgets that will now be taken to Congress include 180_million_of_euros in child allowances, to double those received by families in a situation of severe poverty. They also include 500_million_de_euro in scholarships, 20_million_de_euro in school canteens, 25_million_de_euro in school materials and 30_million_de_euro in children's schools. Improving the situation of children in Spain, but also in Catalonia, depends to a large extent on the approval of these budgets, because the 600_millions that cost all the proposals that we are going to put to the vote here today can come out perfectly of the 2,200_millions_of_euro that Catalonia will receive if the general budgets of the State are approved. We cannot continue to allow ourselves to have the level of wealth of a developed country in Europe and to have the child poverty of a poor country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of the Member of Parliament Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.6.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors, advisors, good afternoon. Despite this specific plenary session that has not had the focus it deserved, we have been able to draw an important conclusion that this Government should take into account, and that is that there are great consensus on children. Apart from the Pact for Children in Catalonia of 2013 or the Law on the Rights and Opportunities of Children of 2010, today we find very similar points from the Parliamentary Subgroup..., in which we agree from the Parliamentary Subgroup of the PP to us. That is why we have already announced that we will vote in favour of most of these motions for resolutions, with the exception of those which remain short or which try to reduce budget allocations for children. And also this consensus, this meeting of ideas and analysis between the parliamentary groups as well as the entities of the sector, has a reading that the Government would have to take into account, and that is that it has a serious problem. It means that the Government is not earmarking the necessary budget lines or complying with the agreements reached years ago, so there are major problems in this area. In short, it means that in Catalonia we do not have a government that governs us. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we can bring you here sixty-five motions for resolutions such as those tabled today by all the groups in this House, but if you do not govern, if you do not allocate the resources that are needed for children, everything that is adopted today and everything you try to do will be in pure wet paper. My colleague Marta Ribas told you this during the session on Tuesday; I say this again today: ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the current situation in our child protection system needs urgent changes. And every passing day, the lack of resources and needs becomes more evident. And every day Catalonia is even more in line in terms of child protection in both Spain and Europe. And every day that happens is a day without putting solutions to the mental health problems experienced by children in situations of residential insecurity. Every day is one more day without giving solutions to boys and girls who need the double cochlear implant. Catalonia needs to put measures and investments for the protection of children and the improvement of the situation of children and adolescents at the centre of the political agenda. Catalonia needs to invest in childhood, because this investment is synonymous with investing in the present, but also investing in our future. It is a pity that for the Government the policies of children have not been a priority, when this is the best bet a government can make for the future of the territory. And do you know what's going on, ladies and gentlemen of the government? It is that your inaction and neglect of the rights of the children of Catalonia are exacerbating the cycle of intergenerational poverty and inequality. And you know what happens too? That housing is not only a roof and walls, but also involves dignity, health, security and stability for girls and boys. In Catalonia there is a very serious problem of infra-habitation and instability that is having an impact on the health of our children. That's not what I'm saying. This is said by various studies, such as the one recently published by the PAH and the Barcelona Health Agency, where it is highlighted that while 1.4_per_cent of girls have poor health in general, in situations of residential insecurity 25_per_cent of girls and boys have poor health. That is – it is multiplied by 25_per_cent – twenty-five times more. That is why, in our motion for a resolution on housing, we call on the administrations involved in the eviction process to update the specific protocols that provide for the fundamental rights of children. Because it seems to us that the children who suffer evictions, with the instability and pain that this entails, have to wait months for a home because the emergency tables are collapsed and the Generalitat does not take on its budgetary commitments. It is a shame that the Government does not contribute the 60_per_cent of the Consorci de l'Habitatge de Barcelona and that they continue to block the general budgets of the State, rejecting a 38_per_cent increase in housing policies. And it is also a shame that the ladies and gentlemen of the PSC..., who in Madrid are trying to collate a clearly insufficient rent reform that does not provide for price regulation. You can't have laughable wages and luxury rental prices. And I am even more surprised that, in a specific childhood full, only the gentlemen and ladies of the Government and the PSC have presented, and a little bit of reference, proposals on housing in such a light way, even knowing all the negative effects that residential insecurity has on the physical and mental health of minors. A problem that is occurring because both here, as in Parliament, and in Congress, many of the parliamentary groups have devoted themselves to liberalizing housing policies and the rental market. And here they have their share of participation and responsibility the PSC, the PP, Citizens, Junts per Cat and the complicity of the Republican Left. And also, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, one_of_five boys and girls in Catalonia has suffered sexual abuse throughout their lives; stressing that these situations, in 87_per_cent of the cases, occur on the part of men. And we are seeing that these boys and girls have not only suffered sexual abuse, but also have to go through the process of enduring dozens of statements before the various agents operating under the current protocol system. And, here, it is one of the consensuss and I think we can all be proud of the great welcome that Save the Children's proposal has received from various parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is time to change things, the time to prevent these boys and girls from going through this calvary. It is not time for pilot testing, it is time to start this project as soon as possible. As you decide to react, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomero has brought to this House today ten significant, concrete and strategic motions for resolutions to address the main problems that are reflected in the childhood of Catalonia; some proposals that we consider essential: doubling the budget for children, ending child poverty through a direct income for children, which has been identified by various entities as the most effective way to tackle child poverty, and also to ensure a heading with a minimum of 45_million_of_euros to ensure the obligation to co-finance schools in Bressol, so we have already announced to the Government that we will say no to its proposal, which has presented us today. And, once again, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we repeat this: in order to have the necessary resources for everything that is exposed and more, we need the support in the Congress of the Deputies of the general budgets of the State of 2019, agreed between the executive and United We can, and also a tax reform in Catalonia, as we have proposed from the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. And I didn't want to end, as we're always tense... by wishing all the deputies and all the happy parties present. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Same thing. The following is the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Cry. The paragraph is made by the Member of Parliament, Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.8.0	Good afternoon. As we have already said in this House..., and we share the reflection made by the parliamentary group of the commons, that this House certainly did not have the attention it deserves, because it is obvious that the popular classes find themselves in a situation of backward social rights, as a consequence of the age of austerity and retailing, and it is also obvious that the most vulnerable collectivities, such as infants and young people, are the most affected by this situation of vulnerability, the result of this crisis context, austerity, and, insistence, retailing, and more with the consequences that this causes: a dismantling of the public sector and of all three classes and all those people who always serve to guarantee their lives, always in their own lives. Resources for childhood-related policies are an indicator of a government's social outlook. If we do not want to mortgage the lives of the generations of the future, then there is a clear will to guarantee father and father for generations of children and young people who, today, already know that the vision of modernity that affirms that all generations will live better than our parents, then, that is, that is, that is a vision. Therefore, as we have resources and effectiveness in public policies of childhood, and now neither the resources nor the effectiveness of these are guaranteed in Catalonia, and this directly connects with the question of the foundations that we have put forward and our positions in relation to the rest of the parliamentary groups. And we ask ourselves: "Is it possible to guarantee public and quality child care services with the current model of child care and the current model of education? We don't think so. It cannot be done if it does not have sufficient economic resources and sufficient workers to face this reality. It cannot be done if the privatized and pre-characterized childcare system is part of the problem. Already from the first tripartite of the Generality, it has been chosen to implement a system of protection to the childhood of private concertation, which means that there are 80_percent of private places. It cannot be done if certain businesses and foundations are allowed to be lucrine, doing benefits with the care of infants and young people. And it can't be done if we pretend to be the workers and workers of these servants who support the deficiencies of this service, and it can't be done if the detail of these servants implies that we follow the women we take and renounce at the same time, we take the cures that are denied to the public servants. We do not answer these questions, and therefore we propose all measures. For what it does to education, the imbalances that exist in the composition, in the mapping of our cities, cause that there are choices that are totally segregated, and therefore that we have attention to this issue, and resources. The current education system in Catalonia forms part of the social system of production and reproduction of inequality and this also includes the question of the privatization of the food service, which has led to the regression in the right to the feeding of infants. In this sense, we have put forward some of the proposals. And we want to pay special attention to two questions in which we have been able to deal somewhere. For what he does to minor family references, they see or must have seen that we have focused exclusively on one of the questions that we consider to be a violation of rights, which are the proofs of age that apply to minor not accompanied. We believe that it is essential, as recommended by the syndic, that it is guaranteed that these minors, these infants are not forced to submerge their age tests, although they have documentation that shows that they are infants, that they are underage. And lastly, we end up with a question that also concerns us and that this week..., and we ask all the parliamentary groups that give account, from here on out of Parliament, of the violation that we have known through a chronicle of the week La Directa, in which we have known that there have been squad movements that, through the Proderai system, claim that they do not drink coke, do not celebrate Sant Jordi or get rid of the tattoos are indicators of Islamist radicalization. You're serious. If they haven't heard the audios from these bands, I think it's the responsibility of everyone who hears them. Today, there are fewer people in the educational centres who see guardianship and are under the watchful eye of those who do not have to do these processes, who are the teachers and educators and directors, and who manifest the characteristic traits of the Muslim tradition...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.9.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.10.0	... makes them likely to be – and I finish, excuse'm, president – possible terrorists. When we look at a community as a single element, we are stigmatizing and criminalizing. Don't you ever imagine the life we refer to people of Christian tradition as Christian pederates?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.11.0	Deputy... Then, it's the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.12.0	Thank you, President. President of the Generality, advisors, advisors, will allow me to begin this intervention by making them notice a question that seemed relevant to me, you know that I carry a few years in this Parliament. It gives me the impression that today has been the first time that, in the same point, there have been three consecutive interventions girls in castle, of the Ciutadans Group, of the Socialist Group and of the Catalonian Group in Comú Pode. Celebrate it. We are pleased that it was possible to express itself in the castle, with full normality, because, before this could happen in this same Faristol, we had to pass other Members, many of our party, who, when they used the castle in this Faristol, were criticized for using a language that is so normal, own and usual of Catalans in the street. [[Greetings.]] So let's celebrate the normality that this represented today. And I'm sorry that I put down a few seconds of the debate on childhood to refer to this question, but I thought it was important to put it in evidence. The People's Party has put forward a total of eight motions for resolutions, but we believe that they are trying to fill in all the questions that have been raised during this debate, interestingly, in what they have asked themselves from the table important questions and questions that affect the citizens and that, above all, affect the children. I will make a short rest for the purpose of each of these proposals. The first, an interdepartmental view of the problems of childhood, an integral perspective on the part of the whole government, not only from the Department of Social Affairs, also from the Department of Education, also from the Department of Health, also from the Interior, from the Territories, especially with reference to housing. The second of the proposals, measures against the poor. Measures against the poor, especially children, and placing emphasis on another area of cooperation. Before I spoke of interdepartmental cooperation; now we are talking of cooperation between administrations, it is not only a question or of the assemblies or of the Generality or of the State, it is a question that affects all administrations. A third element, support measures for families. It is common, therefore, for infants to grow up in families, to develop in the family marque, and, therefore, support for families is important to strengthen these bonds of infants. Education from zero to three years, another important aspect too. Retrieving assumptions, as has already been said in the course of this debate, we will see what the quantity is, if that's enough, it's not enough. What has been announced to us seems to be insufficient, bearing in mind what the Generality was already bringing in at the time. But we also take a look at the future, laying out a new map of kindergartens and what must be the scene of creating nine places of education from zero to three years. In the area..., in terms of teaching; in our proposals there are no inventions either, there are repetitions of many other agreements that have already been adopted, both in full and in committees: increasing investment in teaching, on the one hand, reducing barracks, on the other hand, as a symptom of the quality of teaching, and special attention to be able to provide all those services that require pupils and infants with special educational needs. Prevention, detection and intervention in cases of rape, in which infants directly or indirectly may be in the care centre. Maximum attention also in cases of possible sexual abuse. With regard to minors not accompanied, protocols of action, more resources, but also security, security in the centers; and security in the centers, especially for the professionals, yes, but also for the urban surroundings in which these centers are found and which suffer alterations in a sober and continuous way. And, finally, a motion for a resolution on school, school and plurality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.13.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.14.0	... – I finish, President – and like the space of respect, precisely, to put into evidence what we say in the debate, one thing is to talk about politics at school and the other thing very different is to do politics at school. And, therefore, these are the motions for resolutions that we are submitting to the plenary's consideration. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Congresswoman Rut Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.16.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. President, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, staff of the house, well, we are here to discuss the proposals for the resolution of a monogram on child protection, but, although..., the first intervention that we felt from the group proposing this debate was not very clear, because, as always, they followed the path of an invented report of independence and exposed a non-existent reality. But, well, focusing, it is true that the system of protection to childhood and adolescence can refocus it, so that it adapts to the most current needs and has a medium and long-term focus. And in this we are, and they also show, in the end and in the end, their motions for resolutions, which, curiously, also reproduce many of the actions that the Government of the Generality is already due in term. Therefore, it seems so, that the government governs. When we talk about protection for childhood and adolescence, we take a closer look at it, taking into account all the angles and working it from a more open perspective. And that's how we want to do it, and that's how we do it, and that's how we've taken it back to our resolution proposals that we've put forward, from the cross-cutting approach that involves all government departments of the Generality to being agents of building an infant where their rights and opportunities are guaranteed and respected. I will highlight some of the main lines reflected in our proposals, starting with one of the main challenges we have with the country, which is to abolish the poor child. For this reason, the set of proposals we have put forward go in the line of this cross-cutting work to combat it. There is a situation of inequality between children and it is the most vulnerable who suffer the most consequences, so that it can reinforce and increase the investment in all cross-cutting policies with the view that this childhood can guarantee and be guaranteed an equal opportunity and thus also take over the families. This is why we consider, and in this way we have also proposed, that it is necessary to implement mechanisms to calculate the investment in childhood policies and the instrument that analyses its impact. This is a key proposal and we really need to know what we are investing and what the impact is so that we can rethink public policies in favour of childhood and adolescence more accurately. Another of the great bets we propose is to encourage and provide more resources for family gathering, an unselfish and selfless gesture that provides an environment of esteem, attention and dedication to the infant at a time of his life and at a very determined time. On the most vulnerable groups, and all the parliamentary groups we have taken into account..., they are young people and children without family references, and I also thank here the fact that we could have reached agreements and transactions with the parliamentary groups of Catalonia in Comú Pode and the CUP. And that's why we ended up putting forward a proposal for the resolution of the three groups, because this reality has always been present, but the fact is that since 2017, there has been an exponential increase in the arrival of young migrants alone and has led to an overflow of the agents and the resources that they will have to provide and gather to their arrivals. Therefore, we are fully aware that the solution is not in action-reaction, but rather a medium- and long-term work plan for all young people without family referrals. Calien structural measures with capacity to adapt to flows. And this is what we wanted to take into account the proposal that we have put forward; obviously, also, asking the central government, since it is the institution that has the majority of skills to cover the rights of young migrants alone, such as the right of asylum, and so as to avoid developing a situation of social vulnerability towards young people. We also call on the institutions involved to inform them clearly, transparently and with the forecast of flows so that they can plan forward the hoisting devices and coordinate the response to their protection. In addition, we want to work to promote a positive and non-stigmatizing view of this collection. Therefore, there is a depoliticization of the debate around the gathering and included it by various institutions and political parties as well. We need to keep in mind that all of them are looking for a life plan. Most of them have started a migration process due to lack of expectations and opportunities in their countries of origin, to seek training and also work. Therefore, look for new opportunities in Catalonia. We don't want to lock the doors here. For what it does to PRs on childhood and school, we also wanted to focus on the line of guaranteeing the rights of all children in the classroom, and this also includes, and especially, guaranteeing freedom of expression, the promotion of critical experience and the dialogue over conflict, especially in the current context where we find motions like that of the past Tuesday. For this reason, from the Republic Group we continue to protect and support the teachers before the offensive against the Catalan school model because they can carry out their professional task with full freedom and recognition. For what you do to the educational community, we also collect the stake for co-education, from projects of affective, sexual and reproductive education that guarantee non-sexist education at all stages of compulsory education. To make it possible, we also have very clear that it is necessary to increase the presence of female referents in all curricular designs and to end the standards of heterosexual families and also to include family diversity, rather than eliminate gender stereotypes in classrooms and at the time of choosing training. We did not want to forget the inclusive school and we wanted to take into account the fact of strengthening it and taking it over, from the balance of the student with specific educational needs to all educational centers. And lastly, for what it does to education, like other groups in the chamber, we also bet for school teachers as a space of equal opportunity; for this reason we want to be an essential public service and education. We are fully aware – we are fully aware – that the current legislation has become obsolete and that a new regulation of maximum consensus is needed to ensure the food quality and participation of families who so desire. And here we also want to thank the transaction and complete it with the Socialists and Units Group to move forward so that we can also follow in this line of the dialog that started the department to define between everyone as this service, this model of fooder. In the line he was commenting on at first, we also wanted to present a battery of proposals around the health of infants, as most groups in the chamber have done, and re-appreciate efforts to reach consensus with the Socialist Group and Units to advance in order to reach a compromise. For a band, we wanted to take into account improving the comprehensive health of infants from prevention, early detection and comprehensive care for infants, and not forgetting the attention to their families. On the other hand, the prevention and attention to the mental health of children and young people in the country is a duty and a duty for us, therefore, it is one of the main challenges. It is necessary to continue to improve access to resources to deal with it and also to end the stigma on the part of society. But salvation is not just to cure, above all to prevent, so we also wanted to take into account the promotion of healthy habits to schools and to the space of lleure, oci and sports, as well as the creation of healthy eating habits that mediate the consumption of fresh and proximity products. To put an end to this, one of the areas that we want to put into this debate is that infants and adolescents need to be able to express opinions, participate, influence and decide on all and each of those areas that affect them and where they are present, in the areas where they are present. This has been a very short topic in the rest of the motions for resolutions, which we attach great importance to. Currently there are participation structures representing infants and adolescents, but these structures need to be fostered directly, where each child and adolescent is represented to himself. Therefore, we bet on a model of co-education that lowers the opinions of children and adolescents and takes into account their ability to transform and improve society. This has been a general summary of the main lines of action that we have presented through our proposals for resolution, as I said to the principles, focused on different areas, in a cross-cutting way. But I also want to finish this intervention taking into account, don't I? We welcome the fact that the whole set of motions for resolutions that have been put forward by all the groups in this House are clearly committed to childhood, which is at the heart of policies, and thus to ensuring equal opportunities for all children in the country. But now, we have also found some proposals that we all know are inexhaustible in the current context. Some of you are talking about investing a concrete percentage of GDP in childhood policies. Currently, the Generalitat manages a presumption equivalent to '11_percent of Catalan GDP. Therefore, it helps the Government of Catalonia manage 50 % of GDP and helps to invest the money we all pay to cover the social needs we all need. Therefore, help us that Catalonia is a state. We, however, want to dispose of all the resources generated by our citizens through a similar state, but we are aware of the current situation and limitation, so we do not want to deceive citizens here. That is why our vote will be from reality and responsibility, and here we also call on all groups. And we will support all those motions for resolutions that can be implemented and implemented in a proper manner. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of the deputy Montserrat Macià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.18.0	Thank you, President. President of the Generality, advisors, advisors; President, will allow me first to thank our associates who have been in the middle of fame for this twenty days. [[Greetings.]] Your heart impresses and thrills us. That said, I have the desire and hope that this monographic plenary on childhood serves us all to achieve more consensus that allows us to take a step forward in building a fairer society based on equal opportunities. It would be a great disapprove of the occasion and of the efforts that the parliamentary groups have made to reflect, advance and negotiate actions and proposals. It would be sad, in short, to end the feeling that we have not just protected enough the childhood of political demagoguery and that we can lose ourselves in the labyrinth of political opportunism and easy criticism. That is why I want to believe that, at the end of this plenary, we will have the conviction that we have given a new impetus to the implementation of prevention policies, promotion and protection of children's rights, with the necessary and essential political consensus on a topic that is crucial for the country. Our parliamentary group understands that the fundamental premise that must inspire any child-friendly policy is to put our infants at the centre of all policies, and that is so. And that's why we understand that they're our act, they're our present, and they're our future especially. And we're forced to build quality citizenship, because it's who does it and who builds and defines the country. The principle of the best interests of the child conveys our model of governance, and so we implement it, listening to them, making them visible and motivating us to participate in the policies that are inherent to them and that are protagonists of them. We are clear that putting childhood at the centre of political action helps to minimize social inequalities, because it forces us to look for instruments that address the structural and underlying causes of these inequalities, because one of the great responsibilities of politics is precisely to ensure equal opportunities for citizens. And, therefore, it is necessary to do everything in the abaster to correct the inequalities from the first day and eliminate the discriminations that are going on. We are obliged, for social justice, to respond to these inequalities and minimize as much as possible the poor child. Now that's our big challenge. And we would like to incorporate predisposing policies that, together with redistributive policies, help us to seek preventive strategies from these inequalities. Mrs Gallardo's fellow Member refers to James Heckman, the Nobel Prize in Economics, who explains the efficiency of investing in vulnerable childhood, because this guarantees an educational trajectory of continuity, while, therefore, allowing to cut the transmission of inheritance or to cause the poor child to inherit. Because, you know, poor little girl means schoolgirls, she means premature abandonment of the education system, job insecurity, abandonment of..., entry into the tavern and start the wheel again. For this reason, because childhood is our present and our future, the government, from the first moment on, works actively in the support of families. The President of the General Council spoke to us on Tuesday, and he spoke to us about the Comprehensive Family Support Plan, which is a tool that plans and develops a comprehensive and cross-cutting governance action, and for which, in the presupposition of 2019, there has been a reversal of nearly 600_million euros. We are absolutely aware that everything that goes on during the early years of the infantess marks irremovably what we are of adults. And that's it, just think about it and think about it ourselves. And the sooner you make the reversal, the greater your return. As President Torra said, we want a cohesive society, with social justice and structured according to the principle of equity. For this reason, the fundamental pillar of our policies is based on considering childhood as a right subject, looking at it with an integral and preventive focus, and managed with cross-sectionality and coordination between the different agents. The cross-sectionality of childhood policies is the fundamental entity, so that they require coordination between all the departments involved and with the different agents that match them. Transversality is one of the most repeated requests in the resolution proposals that have been made these days and the government is working on this cross-cutting and will intensify it. And, yes, of course, we clearly agree that we should continue to focus on planning, work for objectives, with good indicators. Calculating the evaluation and correction of those values that have not yet worked. And it must continue to work always to have a model that is modelable and adaptable quickly to the unexpected, to the emergencies, as the Government has already shown, for example, with the arrival of the MENA, which overflowed the planning system but which quickly found solutions, the Government. And yes, let's solve it and in a space of time. And it's work to be able to find tools because, when these kids come out of the protection system, they're not at risk of exclusion. In this sense, I would like to underline that the consensus between three parliamentary groups in the motion for a resolution on unaccompanied minors will improve the measures that can be taken to guarantee the rights of children and adolescents when they arrive in Catalonia. Our values linked to political action are ethics, excellence and honesty, and with great care we try to reflect them on all policies and governance linked to childhood: ethics, as the supreme value that must always prevail in relation to people; excellence, which must always be sought in management models and the quality of services, and honesty, which, among other values, implies not deceiving one another in order not to deceiving others. And they'll convince me that with the resources we have, we can do what we can do. To vote 'yes' in many of the PRs that have presented themselves, and that we would probably agree with in the background, would be a little honest on our part. Have you economically quantified many of the motions for resolutions that have been put forward? Because to execute them we need resources that we don't have; we don't have them, but we could have them. Although some may not like to listen to it, if we can recaptivate everything we generate, we could most likely implement many of the measures and actions we would like, and we could, for example, minimize structural causes. In this sense, we certainly share the background in the PR on childhood and family policies that some parliamentary group has presented, but now it is not possible to implement for a resource issue, it is not possible to do so. When we have a state we can do it, and that's why we want Catalonia to be a state. Because, as President Torra said, "to have a state of well-being, you have to have a state, and that's it. And that's why we work, and that's why we want to exercise our inalienable right to persist in this state building. With these three values, with ethics, excellence and honesty, they have been proposing our resolution proposals and have been negotiated and traded with many groups of this chamber. I will not be in this sense, since the company that preceded me, therefore, has already spoken, but I would like to be in value, for example..., in it could be in others, but I do want to be in value, for example, you agree that we have come up with some parliamentary groups, for example, with regard to education. Because that's why we're going to continue working for inclusive school and territorial equity and education as equal opportunities, and for that reason, to recover funding from zero to three years, as Councillor Bargalló was already compromised. And because we can reinforce the process that has been initiated in the participatory process with regard to school teachers, some teachers that we understand, as it cannot be in any other way, such as an educational space, an inclusive space and the promotion of healthy habits. Among all of us we have dealt with childhood, a crucial issue of the country, in an absolutely cross-cutting way, and among all of us we have also reached agreements that will enable us to continue fighting for children's rights. Childhood is the stage in which everything is built. Perhaps childhood, with the transversal consensus that we have reached, will have given us the opportunity to improve as an institution and as a society that advances towards building a world more just and more supportive. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.19.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. We'll start the vote. We will vote on each motion for a resolution separately, starting with the motions for a resolution tabled for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. We vote on the first motion for a resolution, tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution is adopted unanimously, which means 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 32 votes to 59, with 36 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Motion for a resolution No. 5_has been the subject of a transaction with the motion for a resolution No. 8 of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group for the Republic. Therefore, we will vote for it at the end, with the transactions. Similarly, the proposal number 6_has been negotiated with the proposal for resolution number 12, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and of the Parliamentary Group Republicà. Therefore, we will also vote on it at the end of the day. We shall now proceed to vote on resolution No 7, including the correction of errors presented. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 59, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 61 votes to 59, with 7 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. We shall begin by voting on Motion for a resolution No. 1, including the correction of errors submitted. The vote begins. The proposal for resolution No. 1 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia was adopted by 124 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. Let's now vote for number two. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 59, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 59 against and 64 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 51 votes to 59, with 17 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 58, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. The draft resolution No. 7 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia was adopted by 68 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 62, with 8 abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. We shall begin by voting on motion for resolution No. 1. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 126 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 126 votes to none, with no abstentions. The motion for a resolution number 5_has been the object of a joint transaction with the motion for a resolution number 14 of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, and the motion for a resolution number 4 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Creea Constituent; therefore, we will vote on it at the end, when we vote on the transactions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 51 votes to 59, with 7 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes in favour, against and 59 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 123 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 127 votes to none, with no abstentions. We shall continue to vote on the motions for resolutions submitted jointly by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. Let us first vote on resolution No. 1. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 115 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 116 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 87 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 98 votes to 28, with 28 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 99 votes to 8, with 20 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Motion for a resolution number 8_has been the subject of a compromise with the motion for a resolution number 5 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar; therefore, we will vote on it with the rest at the end. We are now voting on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 87 votes to 40, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 11. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 11 was adopted unanimously: 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Motion for a resolution number 12_has been the subject of a compromise with the motion for a resolution number 6 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar; therefore, like the rest, we will also vote on it at the end. We therefore vote directly on resolution No 13. The vote begins. This proposal was adopted by 124 votes to three. The motion for a resolution number 14_has been negotiated with the number 5 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode and the number 4 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent; therefore, we will also vote on it at the end. We therefore turn directly to resolution No 15. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 127 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 16. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 126 votes to none, with 1 abstention. Let us now vote on resolution No 17. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was adopted by 88 votes in favour, with 39 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution 18. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 18 was adopted by 115 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 19. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution number 20..., 19 – I'm sorry – was adopted by 124 votes to three, with no abstentions. Let us now turn to resolution No. 20. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 20 was adopted by 124 votes to three, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's start with the motion for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 66 votes to 58, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution 2, including the correction of errors presented. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 123 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 42 votes to 65, with 20 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously, i.e. 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 64 votes to one, with 61 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 59, with 3 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 56 votes to 59, with 11 abstentions. Let's now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by three votes in favour, 115 against and 9 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by three votes in favour, 63 against and 61 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by three votes in favour, 63 against and 61 abstentions. Number 4, as we have already said, has been the object of a transaction; therefore, we will vote on it at the end. Let us now move on to resolution No. 5. Let's vote number five. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 99 against and 17 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 123 votes to 4, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 87 votes to 39, with 1 abstention. Let us now vote on the compromise proposals. In the first place, we vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution No. 6 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar and the proposal for resolution No. 12 of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The vote begins. This compromise proposal was adopted by 124 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. Let us now vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution No. 5 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar and the proposal for resolution No. 8 of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The vote begins. This proposal was adopted by 124 votes to three. Let us now vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution No. 5 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the proposal for resolution No. 14 of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, and the proposal for resolution No. 4 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Cree Constituent. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 70 votes in favour, against and 57 abstentions. And if we haven't made up our minds, we've voted on all the motions for resolutions. So, let's move to the next point of the order of the day... [[Greetings. Widow's remorse.]] They ask that if they are to abandon the hemicicle, they do so in silence, please. [[Pause.]] [[Debate on the end of democracy started on 6 and 7 September 2017 (continuation)]] [[255-00006/12]] We shall now proceed to the presentation of the subsequent motions for resolutions to the debate on democracy, which began on 6 and 7 September 2017. At the end of the debate, we shall vote on these motions for resolutions. To defend them, they know that you have given each parliamentary group minutes, and, consequently, five parliamentary subgroups. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.20.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, assistant public, we have already closed the specific plenary session that called for Citizens on 6 and 7 September 2017, and let's say this is already my group's third intervention in this plenary. First we made one, Mrs Arrimadas, as an introduction to the plenary session; then we made an extensive reply to the Government's position, and finally we have already tabled the motions for resolutions to vote. Look, in one parliament, I think there are two sacred moments: one is the debate and the other is the vote. The debates are very important, they position us politically. And there are times when votes are particularly important; of course, one of those times is in the legislative process. Laws are passed – or not – by voting, and that remains, and citizens have to comply with those laws that this legislative chamber validly approves, also following the laws. And then there are other resolutions, which are, as we know, mandates to the Government, they do not have binding force of law. But there are other resolutions, which I dare say are the ones that we are going to vote on today, which are of particular importance, and which are of particular importance because they are going to position us all in a particularly important debate in Catalonia and which affects the very essence of democracy. We have had a debate on what happened on 6 and 7 and we have to say, with regret and regret, that the groups that overstepped the rights of the rest of the Members and, with this, more than half of the Catalans have not made any self-criticism and have not made any kind of self-amendment. They have presented themselves in the debates by ratifying the coup to democracy, and now, at the time of the vote, we are afraid that, above all, they will follow, they will translate in writing what I believe that, to be certain, I do not know if unconsciousness or political shame have been maintained all the time. These yellow ties that adorn some of the seats are examples of this. « Political prisoners; « political prisoners, you say. After overstepping the rights of all Catalans, after wanting to deprive more than half of Catalans of their passports..., all Catalans, in fact, because the vast majority of Catalans want to keep their Spanish passports, in addition to being Catalans, because, in addition, to some extent, the vast majority of the Catalan population feel, to some extent, Spanish and Catalan. You wanted to take away from us all that many; you did it by overstepping the Constitution, the Statute, the Regulations, the Statutory Guarantee Board, legislative procedures... You did not repair anything, but you have not repented of anything. And today I want to make it especially important that we vote today, because for me it is the demonstration that this government – whose members..., few of them now occupy the benches – and the groups that support it persist in the blow to democracy. I'm saying it with pity. [[Widow's remorse.]] They persist, yes. Here there are some MPs who signal to me: "Yes, yes, we persist in the blow to democracy. I say: "Do they persist in the blow to democracy? And they say to me, "Yes. Well, there are some who aren't so explicit, but who prove it with the acts. The acts, which have been... I have already said a small enunciation – we all know that – of the rights that were violated on the day of the coup, but what was done afterwards? A president was appointed, therefore, who is the author of xenophobic and racist writings. Xenophobic and racist tweets have been tweeted to most Catalans, especially those who have roots in the rest of Spain. Statements have been made by people who are not grateful to those who think differently. Stones have been thrown at private homes; painted on vehicles, homes; letters with death threats to judges, councillors, for different reasons. Political party headquarters have been attacked or public statements made. Public spaces with independence have been occupied in public institutions and public spaces. There have been cuts in highways, there have been lifting of barriers to prevent the passing of citizens. There have been attacks on the various security forces and bodies of the State. Linguistic rights of parents who want to school their children in Spanish have been violated as well. There has been a ban on acts in public space to the party that won the elections... An attempt has been made to attack Parliament, this Parliament, on 1 October, and there is now a repeated announcement of « violent actions specially planned for tomorrow for many days. And the government, with the president at its head, has refused to condemn « violent actions and to drain the package every time it was asked what measures it will take to prevent the rights and freedoms of Catalans who do not want to protest from being affected. But it is that they are not protests, they are not duly authorized demonstrations; no one discusses the right to protest, assembly, legal protest and without overstepping the rights of others, and you do not want to guarantee this. We here today are going to vote on a motion for a resolution..., we are going to vote on many, of varying content, but I want to place special emphasis on two of them..., three. The motion for a resolution No. 1 is that of condemning the coup, and let us see how the political forces that participated in it are not going to rectify at all; quite the contrary, they propose a single motion for a resolution, by Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, in which they basically reiterate themselves in the objectives and in the purposes. We do not have democracy in Catalonia and we do not want our rights to be trampled on. It seems to me that we have it as bad as those Slovenians who deleted from the records when Slovenia's independence triumphed after a brief war with a few dozen dead, which is President Torra's model. We do not have it with you, that you are not subject to the rules of democracy. That is why we want you to vote on it today expressly, because we are positioning ourselves today in respect for others, in respect for the rules of democracy, and you make it clear again that you neither respected them nor will you respect them. It's unfortunate. PR No. 2 will condemn all totalitarian and violent attitudes. I'm telling you, I'm going to ask you to read it before voting for two PRs: number 2 and number 9. Number 2, which condemns all kinds of violence to impose political ideology on others; we want to see what you vote for in this condemnation of violence. We will make it read and see what everyone votes for. And then, the 9, which is an appeal..., the Government of the Generalitat is asked to make an appeal not to carry out the illegal actions foreseen on 21 December, to avoid them, to fulfil their duty to defend the rights and freedoms of Catalans. We will also ask that it be read, because that is a duty of the Government, of a government that you already know that... We have insisted a lot that the Government of Sánchez stop looking elsewhere and make you comply with the Constitution; if necessary, that Mr. Torra be required to comply with the Constitution, and, if not, that the 155 proceedings be initiated. That, on the one hand. And, on the other hand – on the other hand – we already announce that our position will consist in fighting for the rights and freedoms of Catalans in the institutions – as we are doing here today – in every corner of Catalonia where we have people – that we have them, because we are the first party in Catalonia – that want to live in peace, all Catalans, with the rest of their fellow citizens, without imposing as a law of the funnel a political vision, as you want to do, jumping over all the laws. And, moreover, defend the, if any, in the courts. If you're waiting for us to get tired, I wish you luck, because we're not going to get tired. And we will defend the rights and freedoms of Catalans everywhere, with all our strength, without stopping, we will not claude. We will continue to defend them, we will continue to defend all Catalans against a government presided over by radicals who are not willing – and this debate has served to clarify this – to rectify...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.21.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.22.0	...and to abide by the laws that unite us all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the return of Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.24.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, advisors, Members and Members, we will try to present in this intervention some of the conclusions of the debate that we have been having these days; some, in which I will expose them and in the reflections that we want to share with all of you and all of you, and of course others, are made explicit in the motions for resolutions that we are debating, which I will try to summarize, as quickly as possible, in order to be able to then share some reflections. First of all, the first of our motions for resolutions, of which we also ask for reading before their vote, condemns the vandal acts, the attacks, the threats, the intimidations and the speech of hatred, and consider here to be inclusive of the concern we share, and that we believe that we should share all groups in the chamber, by the rise of identity, ethno-nationalist, national populist, faixist, xenophobic, anti-Egyptian, Islamophobia, antisemitism or any other based on the construction of alters from harm and discrimination, due to the end of groups– that sometimes they are also organized to act– that always, always, they are seen as themselves as a forward-looking and always virtuous representative of a class, always, always, but always, always, always, always, in order that they should be heard from within, always, but always, always, in order that they should be heard from within a class. We have seen Europe's history, and unfortunately also our home, attitudes as we described. Yesterday he commented that our own party – that it has not been the only one that the last months and the last years has rejected attacks on their own, and that it has not been only the parties, also trade unions, cultural entities and associations of all kinds – has suffered, let us say, vandalization on the part of some escapees from the esprai, who had the power to sign it, in fifteen of their own. Today... I don't know if it's the resuscitation of the tides or the waves, but today there have been only three, I don't know if the effects of the speech we gave here or not; but, in any case, still three. And we've also seen videos where our own glass is hammered. Let us hope that here we can establish some consensus that helps to move together in society that Catalan society does not want these attitudes. The second of our proposals for a resolution revolves around the defence of coexistence, pluralism in public space – we emphasize "pluralism in public space, not neutrality, that public space is where the political and social conflict must be expressed so that it is compatible with the rights of everyone – and also the neutrality of the Administration. The third round around the guarantee of respect for legality, the institutional framework, as well as the mechanisms and majorities established for its reform, because, effectively, the institutional frameworks cannot be, they are not cotilles, but there are mechanisms through which they are to be reformed. And if it does not reform through these mechanisms, it is acting not only against a criterion of political prudence, but also against the very foundations of the republican and democratic idea of modern constitutional states. The fourth turns around the unblocking of institutions, against the attempts to erode them with the creation of parallel bodies that claim to attribute themselves to functions or their own representativeness, and also calls for referring to basic consensus. We have another one that accentuates our bet for the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact to get out of the political sugar in which we find ourselves; another one that we make is to expose to the chamber..., to seek the consensus around which we think it would be the best solution for the situation in which we find ourselves, that it is our bet for a democratic and social federation, our bet for a reform of the Constitution to achieve a fully federal model, to adapt the Constitution to the new democratic challenges that lie after forty years of technological, social, economic evolution, and also to ensure its better social character. It is also committed to a new model of financing through a federal history, for the adaptation of the State to the new federal model, and always with citizenship as the protagonist of these changes in the institutional framework, because, indeed, it will have to be pronounced respect to all of them. And the latter of our proposals also affects the need for dialogue, negotiation and pacts for pending subjects, for the time being, for all that has been put up in negotiations between governments for so long. As far as the rest of the motions for resolutions are concerned, we must confess that we have to make a thick line position, since no separate votes can be tabled and no separate votes can be taken, but only to arrive at transactions in accordance with the texts presented, and so it is more difficult to clear up and reach agreements. What remains clear, however, is that the narratives or perspectives on which the days 6 and 7 of September 2017 passed and also during the subsequent months are still irreconcilable. I believe that, from the reading of the package of motions for resolutions, it is a conclusion that we must not make. Why... what happened on the 6th and 7th of September 2017? A lot of things. We will remember the intensity with which they lived here these days and the patience with which I think many people also followed them. So that a certain parliamentary majority that was not an exact representation of the citizen's will, in the sense that the entire electoral system ends up distorting little or a lot of that representation – there was not a majority behind the election, but a majority of the parliament –, he wanted to act on what is said to be resolved laws, that is, without subjection to the law or considering himself over the law. And we said those days, and we repeat it now, that the principle of submission of public power to the rule of law is one of the main conquests of democratic movement. It's been long history and it's still one of the main strands of any democratic movement, limiting power. In fact, at its origin, the constitutions have among their functions above all this, limiting the power of the sovereign, was this a monarch or was even national or popular sovereignty. In fact – on this we may not have occasion to debate – we think that, to explain the modern world and to give ourselves political solutions to live in the modern world, surely the concept of sovereignty itself is no longer useful from the analytical point of view nor as the political proposal. We think that in the world in which we live we need to talk about the powers that are exercised, the powers that are exercised, and the democratic control of each of the institutions in which these powers and powers are exercised. But in any case, in the republican, democratic tradition, which arose from the French Revolution, it also spoke of this, and it also spoke of the need to control it, even when it spoke of national and popular sovereignty. And this is not a purely theoretical issue that has no consequences: on September 6 and 7, we saw a practical application of the political and social problems that can arise when these basic republican and democratic concepts are ignored. Because, of course, if sovereignty is an unlimited, indivisible and indelible power, in any democraticly constituted state there can be no power of these characteristics, because the power is that it acts to constitute this state, and its action must always be, then, through the reform mechanisms provided for in the Constitution. That is why it speaks of a constituted power, or that is why it speaks of a power of reform. Moreover, in our case, the Spanish Constitution has a particularity that it shares with others, but with others it does not, which is that there are no clauses of intangibility. The power constitutes the capacity to reform the Constitution, all of it, without any element that is intangible or unstoppable for that power constitutes. What can't be done at all is to ignore these reform procedures, try to get them started from cams that don't have the skills to finish them, that don't have in absolute legitimacy to change and alter the cohabitation mark. In fact, on September 6 and 7, this majority, which is said to be republican, acted in the least republican manner possible and, if I may, also in a very little democratic way, not only in the forms of the same parliamentary session, ignoring the Rules of Parliament, ignoring the warnings of the electorates, the Council of State Guarantees and also ignoring the advice given by the parliamentary groups opposing this attempt to repeal the Constitution and the Statute and to replace them with a pseudoconstitution which had nothing to do with republican or democratic. The problem is that everything we're saying is there's someone who's going to think it's still possible. And we're concerned that he wants to justify it, because if one up, like September 6th and 7th, passed, or, as I'm afraid he was also told at the length of this debate..., one up thinking that the purpose was so high, that it was so desirable, the objective, that the valid methods, then we already opened the door to all kinds of considerations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.25.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.26.0	It seems to us that it is worth it – I finish this reasoning, President, and I finish the intervention too – that, if it cannot be in this debate and cannot be with these motions for resolution, there is at least one debate in the country about the many mistakes that many political and social actors have made during the last year and a half so that there is no repetition of the attempt to leave out the basic consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.27.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.28.0	... of Catalunya a significant part of its citizenship. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of the deputy Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.30.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you very much. Members, Members, Members of the Bureau, we would like to take advantage of this Plenary to learn from the past and to start the future, because it is in this sense that we have also made all our proposals for a resolution. The solution to the territorial and relational conflict with the Spanish State that sees Catalonia is only solved by politics, never by taxation, never by confrontation, never by unilaterality, never by threat and coercion. The solution must come from politics, from the dialect, from empathy, from the ability to pose oneself to the skin of whom you think different, from whom you have different illusions, from whom you imagine a different country, from both national feelings of identity and social demands. We want a more just country that guarantees social rights to everyone. We want a country that respects and protects diversity and plurality, where everyone has a head and finds himself well, that cheers everyone, that doesn't expel anyone, that doesn't offend anyone, where everyone is able to understand and respect who thinks differently, and not share thoughts or dreams, perhaps. Unfortunately, this is not what happened on September 6th and 7th; it was not that. The one who passed was all the contrary: he lived division, confrontation, exclusion, threats and, for many people, for, also for, that day. That's why we think it was a mistake, which passed on September 6th and 7th. Because one part was imposed on the other; because it was dramatically lengthened, even though we think it is not irreversible, the ability of the Catalan political forces to add and apply majorities for the right to decide. During the 6th and 7th of September 2017, the rights of MPs and MPs of the opposition were violated to force approval of two laws that did not have social legitimacy and sufficient support. It was approved a law of the reference that was not the reference that Catalonia needed, that counted neither with the recognitions nor with sufficient guarantees. October 1 was a great civic mobilization, it was an expression of a yearning for a change in democratic radicality, it was a demonstration of self-government and self-organization, but it was not the reference that Catalonia needs and deserves. It will also be a hard mistake to approve the Law of Legal Transition. The majority of the independenceist used a wrong strategy, a strategy that remained, that did not add up, to approve a law of disconnection that violated the rights of Members and Members and forced Parliament's Rules of Procedure to achieve a political objective that did not have sufficient social support. There was not enough social majority behind the unilateral path taken by the Government of the Generality that day. That day the independence parties decided to leave behind and leave more than half a mile away from Catalonia. The unilateral way to complete Catalonia's independence was, it's going to be a mistake. Any tempting to continue on this path will lead to a failure that leaves more than half of the Catalan population. For this reason let us pray, with our proposals for resolution, and urge all political groups to abandon this path that has not been used. But it was also a mistake, and he's still feeling it, qualifying what happened as a time to democracy, as a time of state. That's also wrong. As well, it is to qualify as a striker the social organizations and political parties that gave it support and demanded its illegality. That's also a mistake. What happened here wasn't a coup d'état, it wasn't violent. Nor the one that passed October 1, except for the charges of security forces, of course. We need to stop frivolizing concepts and instrumentalizing them to serve them for confrontation and polarization, because we don't know what consequences they can carry, and they certainly don't have to be good. The political, strategic and democratic error committed by the independence majority with the plenary sessions of 6 and 7 September cannot be used to justify in any case and in any way the response that the Spanish State has given: judicial repression, persecution of rights and freedoms, intervention of autonomy, social and political leaders, or foreigners without the possibility of returning home with their families at risk of going into prison, we insist, without oblivion of police charges and the violation of security forces on 1 October. It was a disproportionate, dangerous response that brought us closer and involved a violation of rights and freedoms and the main requirements of a state of law, and complicated any political outcome to this conflict. It is also a mistake the strategy of judicialization of politics, which seeks to reduce political conflict through criminal courts. It's a big mistake, a democratic mistake, which also remains, which also divides. We also ask you to correct those who want to follow the repressive path as in order to resolve the conflict. We won't find the solution. We won't find the solution. The immediate detention of independent political prisoners and the failure of political justice are urgent questions in order to be able to return to a situation of political normality. Only then can we build a socially and nationally cohesive Catalonia. We ask all the political forces, especially on this occasion the Socialist Party of Catalonia and the PSOE, to finally dispel any tempt to reapply the force on this conflict, to replan the use of 155 and the intervention of self-government as a way to give it a response. In fact, there is an appeal to the Constitutional for our group, an appeal of unconstitutionality, and curiously the Constitutional Court does not have the same speed to resolve these things, as it did to suspend the social laws against which the Government of the People's Party appealed. 155 was the territorial pact split, and it gave to an extreme right that already stands up and even poses a question of the autonomic agreement. There are political forces, and we know that they see better division, polarization, we have already told them; they believe that they give political orders, electoral orders. They may get more votes, they may win elections, but here in Catalonia with this strategy they will never rule. What do we think adds up to, props up, solves up? And we also present them in this sense, in the sense of seeking dialogue, consensus, empathy, courage and generosity that fall on the part of all the political forces of this hemisphere. In the face of the situation of political blockade, it is time to be brave, brave at the time to recognize the other, to recognize that the other thinks differently and that it is in a different position than ours, not least legitimate, and that we must seek to lie down and approach. It is a recognition of diversity and plurality, which are the great values of Catalan society, values to grow. They need to be good at recognizing their own mistakes and recognizing others' uncertainties, too. That's why we proposed to the table of the dialog that President Torra called the Clarity Pact, because we believe it is the way to build a great national consensus around the right to decide in Catalonia, because any political solution goes through the right to decide in Catalan society. Yesterday President Torra – unfortunately he is not here for this debate, which is very useful – told us that the meeting of the table will do it again in the month of February. It was like an improvised thing, no one expected it, no order of the day, no objectives. This will be another weakness if there is no correction and really a sure will to establish dialogs and consensuses. If President Torra does not correct his mistakes and his events, unilateral and Slovenian, which do not add up, which divide and extend, we ask the Republican Left of Catalonia to have the height of sights and courage enough to stop him, to say that by here no, that does not add up. What is necessary is a national agreement for Catalonia to work on this clear-cut pact which must define which procedure, which guarantees and which recognition must have the reference that Catalonia is worth and on which Catalonia should decide its future; a clear-cut pact which must be the instrument that allows us to find the way out of this conflict, which is necessary and essential for the celebration of this reference; a clear-cut pact which is based on a great understanding, on a great deal of agreement between different political and social actors. From Catalonia to Comú We have defended, defended and defended the given reference, recognized and guaranteed as the best tool for drawing Catalonia from the instability and the indefinacy in which it finds itself. We need to find a way out of the crisis that we are living with the country. That is why with our proposals we place all the political forces to a real dialogue in the long run, with the aim of finding us consensus as a society that allows us to overcome the current situation of blockade, valence per front, to build these consensuss, and courage to leave aside confrontation and polarization. We all have to find a way out of the situation we find ourselves in. We have a great responsibility. We ask that we do not flee, that we sum up, that we build and that we advance, with generosity, with empathy and courage. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent cry is the return now of the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.32.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Arrimadas, Mr. Carrizosa, lords and lords of Ciutadans, allow me to start with you, since they are the promoter group of this debate. I want to tell you who wants the rape report? Who wants to criminalize protest and dissent? Who wants to generate a violent spiral that justifies the application of 155 and the illegalization of independence parties? I believe that you, lords and lords of Ciutadans; you and the block of 155, you and the State with your keys. It is the 78's rule that is defense and attacks with violence. Arrested and held politically, exiled and exiled, more than a thousand people investigated or prosecuted, more than seven hundred battles and imputed battles, more than a thousand people injured on October 2017. And you're accusing us of rape? It's the state and the extreme right that were armed. We are unarmed and faceless, defending ourselves with protest, with non-collaboration, with disobedience and with boycott of institutions, devices, resources and instruments with which the State denies us democratic rights. And do you know who described this non-violent action dynamic that I just described? So Mr. Gandhi, and we are exactly following this model of struggle, despite the fact that you want to criminalise and suppress. Protest, non-collaboration, disobedience and boycott, and so on and so on have won all the rights that have allowed humanity to advance. And listen, Mrs. Arrimadas, how do you know that there will be violence tomorrow? How do you know that? How do you announce quarrels that haven't happened yet? What information do you have? What interest do they have? Do you have any connections with the state's locksmiths? Perhaps it is you who will have to give explanations and to whom we will have to ask for responsibilities if there is violence in our country. Take a note. [[Greetings.]] Because only with mobilization and disobedience will we overcome the current legal and political framework in which there is no place for social, civil and political rights, including the right to self-determination that many of our people have been demanding for some time. We will not vote in favour of those PRs that criminalize dissent, protest and disobedience. We vote in favour of those who claim rights and freedoms for everyone, in favour of those who propose to extend rights and not to detail them. The way of negotiation with the state is dead. This dialog that the Government of the Generality and the parties that support it intend to keep alive will not take place. The self-determination and the civil and social rights that October 1st and October 3rd put in the center do not fit into this dialog. Only unilaterality and civil disobedience will allow us to remove the 78 rule and institute a new set of rights and freedoms by means of self-determination. The 78th Regime is not reformable. I need to fire him. October 1st and October 3rd were moments of freedom and democracy that only we, the Lords and the Lords of the Commons, once again from unilaterality. We will vote against the PRs who intend to maintain the deception of the 78 reform and in favour of those who are betting for self-determination, and how this is not just about independence but about rights and, therefore, about democracy, we will defend, and we hope that the parliamentary groups of the Government will do so too, that the ILPs, participatory and direct democracy, have a parliamentary course without being blocked by the parties. We want to end with a heartfelt tribute to President Forcadell. Carme, we are with you and we will defend your name and your freedom until the end before the ignominy of the fascism of being represented by the block of 155. Honor for you and for the Bureau of Parliament who disobeyed to defend the popular mandate and democracy. Mr. Guinó, you also represented us; our recognition and our solidarity for you. And the fight goes on, and that's why we say we're going to do it and we're going to do it again as many times as anyone. And we call for the mobilization and initiation of a cycle of protest and struggle, aimed at creating a broad front of struggles in defense of civil, social and political rights, and for the real and concrete exercise of self-determination and sovereignty against repression, to overthrow the rule, to win the civil, social and political rights that belong to us with all the right. To self-determine us, let us be indignant and lift us up. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.33.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the turn of Deputy Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.34.0	Mr. Riera – well, first, thank you, President – do you know...? I wasn't going to say that, but I heard your speech very carefully. Do you know why you can come here to dump garbage on the Spanish regime? As you call it. Because this is a democracy, so you can say it freely. If you lived somewhere else, things would be different. Would you dare to go to Venezuela to speak ill of Maduro? Isn't that right? Would you dare to go to Cuba to speak ill of the Castros? Not at all? Would you dare to go to Korea to talk bad about Kim Jong-un? No, no, You can say crap about all of us because this is a democracy. I welcome it, and I welcome the fact that you have the freedom of expression to say it, because this is a democracy, Spain is a democracy. [[Greetings.]] Our motions for resolutions are based essentially on the defence of self-government, the denunciation of the violation of rights and freedoms suffered not only by the Members of this House but also by the Catalans, the breakdown of the coexistence that took place on 6 and 7 September, and the institutionalization of violence to the extent that it was invoked since the presidency of the Government of the Generalitat and allowed by all of you. I ask you a question, and I ask it with all the firmness, because what happened on 6 and 7 September, unfortunately, is extremely topical. Look, tomorrow there will be hundreds of thousands of students, yes, yes, of the Catalan school – of the Catalan school – who will not go to class. They're explaining it in the WhatsApp groups. I have daughters. They're explaining it. And they're not going to class. Are you going to give them back the school hours you're going to lose? Are they going to give them back? Because they'd like to go to class, their parents... but they've already announced they can't go, they can't go or they don't dare. Are you going to return your class hours? Tomorrow, hundreds of thousands of Catalans are going to have to cancel their flights, their trips, and planning... be quiet and listen to me, please. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.35.0	Deputy, deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.36.0	Will they have...? Man!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.37.0	No, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.38.0	That they respect a little...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.39.0	Deputy, deputy. Okay. I'm the one who orders the debate. Who's gonna keep me quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.40.0	Yeah, but if he doesn't, it's my turn to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.41.0	Mr. Fernández, it's up to me. Okay?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.42.0	I would like, Mr President, with all the cordiality you know that I have had during my time at the Bureau and also as a spokesman, that when from there, from that bench, respect for the word is also violated, the same diligence with which I have just been interrupted. I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.43.0	Mr. Fernández, I'm acting...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.44.0	And you know this is the first time I've addressed you in those terms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.45.0	Mr. Fernández, I have the word me. I'll give it back when I get back to you. In any case, I act with the same consideration on one side and on the other side of the bench. Sometimes they'll like them better and sometimes they'll like them less. Go on, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.46.0	Let's hope so. He said that tomorrow hundreds of thousands of Catalans have cancelled their flights, their travel plans. Are you going to return the money? Because they didn't want to do it. They've done it because they're scared of what can happen tomorrow, worried. Tomorrow, hundreds of thousands of Catalans have decided that they will not be able to go to work, if they live outside Barcelona to Barcelona, or leave Barcelona to their respective jobs because they do not know what is going to happen. Are you going to return the unworked hours? Are you going to do it? Of course, then they're shocked when we tell them we're going to dismiss the government. Stop now – stop now. Do you want to avoid a new 155? – Do you want to avoid it? Stop now – stop now. Stop scaring the Catalans, stop saying once and for all that people can't go to school and take their children, stop threatening people with a potential war between all of us in the Slovenian style. Stop now, and then we'll be able to live quietly. Because you know what? We, all of us here, want to live in peace, we have no desire for conflict – we want to live in peace. End once and for all with the restlessness and uncertainty that we are experiencing. We want to live in peace. Do you understand? We want to live in peace. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.47.0	Next, has the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mr Jordi Orobigg... Tell me, Mr Riera, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.48.0	In contradiction, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.49.0	Contradictions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.50.0	Yeah, yeah. I want to tell Mr. Rodriguez that, if it were true...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.51.0	No, I don't know Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.52.0	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.53.0	That's a contradiction. [[Rialles.]] It's a word for contradictions. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.54.0	Calm down, calm down, deputies and deputies. Go on, Mr. Riera, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.55.0	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.56.0	Twenty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.57.0	All right. Tell the Member of the People's Party [[relays]] who just intervened that, if it were true what he said, Mrs. Forcadell would be here today. [[applause]] And the MPs and MPs who are in prison and exile today are serious here. So don't lie, don't say democracy, because it isn't. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.58.0	There you go, Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.59.0	... just to add that I have previously forgotten to quote Mr. Nuet: the same recognition and solidarity for him as I have expressed for Mr. Guinó. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.60.0	Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.61.0	For allusions, contradictions and three hundred and fifty more articles of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.62.0	Allusions know that no, because they've all praised each other. Anyway, if it's a contradiction, yes, because I gave the word to Mr. Riera, but if not, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.63.0	Indeed. Look, Mr. Riera, don't try to take refuge if you're in Mrs. Forcadell. Mrs. Forcadell will be in jail for her personal and eventual decisions. [[remorse of the voice]] violations of the Spanish legal regulation. You here can exercise freedom of expression. I repeat: do you dare to go to Korea to speak ill of Kim Jong-un? Do you dare to go to Venezuela to speak ill of Maduro?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.64.0	Mr. Fernández...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.65.0	Don't you dare. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.66.0	Mr. Fernández...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.67.0	You come here, you speak badly of me, I celebrate it, because we are in democracy – because we are in democracy. That's why you can...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.68.0	Mr. Fernández, you no longer have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.69.0	...and you know it perfectly well, that's why we're in democracy. Do not take refuge in the situations of others.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.70.0	Mr. Fernández, you're here. You don't have the word. Keep going. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.71.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. President Torra, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies... Well, I with all the friendship that I have with Mr. Alejandro Fernández, would recommend that, when I call the word, you don't do that. [[the orator does the fexist greeting]] Because, frankly, on a graphical level, he doesn't speak very well of you. [[Greetings.]] Say that, by the way. You bet; you bet, Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.72.0	Shut up, everybody.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.73.0	...attributing to independence violent positions. Yesterday the Vice-President said it, the President reiterated it, this parliamentary group is doing it today, and I believe that the political trajectory of independence is very clear, in this sense. We will never validate the violence, come from where we come. And I pray that you, all of you, eh? , who attribute this to us, do the same with all those commands that went through Catalonia masked, covering their faces, pulling ties and fearing our people. I think I would say very much in favour of you condemning this type of violence against our civilian population. On September 6th and 7th was held a ple in the Parliament of Catalonia, eh? And in the case of the same groups that we cost the government, they called for an alteration of the order of the day. It is something that the Rules of Parliament allow. I want to recall last week, if I am not mistaken, the Ciutadans Group, the Socialists Group and the People's Party Group also asked that this change in the agenda is substantial precisely in order to ask for the President's appearance, and without any problem it was substantial, it was voted and agreed. This petition of these groups that triggered was a follow-up of actions by certain opposition groups, that's what's called parliamentary filibusterism, huh? And I believe, frankly – and I believe, from my point of view – that the one who shocked our society, the one who was a democratic disgrace, was how those groups who opposed this alteration of the order of the day acted. We are going to live constant moments of interruptions, petitions of sentence, reconsiderations, meetings of Bureau, of the Board of Spokesmen, to more than unfortunate episodes of disqualifications and personal disregards, also from the perspective of genere, and, fundamentally, addresses to the President of Parliament, to the Honourable Carme Forcadell, eh? I don't know, I'm burning my brain with that song from "Mr. Carrizosa", why ask me the word? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In those plenary sessions, honestly, if we didn't listen to her a hundred times, we didn't listen to her head. But I have more records, too, huh? The appearance of reports that had not been requested, that had not followed the regulatory conduct, that pervert the principle of the performance of the Board of Guarantees ex post and non ex ante, as contaminated reports for the constant threat of the warnings of the Constitutional Court respect the performance of the letters. Can a lawyer freely give his opinion when he has a warning from the Constitutional Court that he respects his actions? But, I insist, I remember many disregards, as a matter of fact, and not just President Forcadell, also my companion, the spokesman at the time of the parliamentary group, Marta Rovira. Don't you remember them, this lady? Do you remember, Mr. Carrizosa, this lady? Mrs Forcadell, in this case, instead of addressing herself to the President on behalf of Mr Iceta; or the President, give him, is loose; give him, let him cry today. Frankly, I believe that, if anyone is to be ashamed of what those days went through, it is who encouraged this kind of behavior, and it is obvious that it was not the ones who called for the alteration of this order of the day. This alteration of the agenda was an alternate mechanism, which was used in this case by the independenceist majority, to try to deal with something that he had tried by joint submission, joint submission to which they did not want to participate and which they brought to the Constitutional Court. That they also did not accept a modification of the Rules, a modification of the Rules that you allow to be debated in one reading a proposal of law, as is accepted not only to the Congress of Deputies but to the majority of the legislative assemblies of the Spanish State. Do they remember them, those scarafalls? « They are breaking with democracy, « this is a blow to democracy, « that was the end, the perversion of democracy. Your own Constitutional Court has validated the amendment of the Rules that has been processed in this Parliament. In her performance, President Forcadell, as well as the pressure, the disqualifications, the threats, and the threats, exercised with all dignity her position, in conformity with the obligations imposed not only by the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia but also in accordance with the principles that universally inspire parliamentarianism. If not, what would the endorsement of more than five hundred parliamentarians from all over the world have for their pocket in an act that we were proud to be able to watch last week? Yesterday in the presentation by Mrs. Arrimadas, I listened to many lies, many falsehoods. Also today, huh? , on behalf of Mr. Carrizosa, tearing up and making a malicious and perverse buidatge of that which gave the Law of Legal Transition. What is it that we want to deprive nationality? That's fake, it's a lie like a house of pay, Mr. Carrizosa – it's a lie like a house of pay. The Law of Legal Transition provides for dual nationality for all citizens of this country. [[Widow's remorse.]] The Law of Legal Transition provided, unlike that yesterday...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.74.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.75.0	... said Mrs. Arrimadas, that all of you working in Catalonia can be integrated into the Administration of Catalonia. So let's not say things that aren't true. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.76.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.77.0	As if they were appointed to say the magistrates of the Supreme Court. Totally uncertain. Does your democracy, the democracy that you so defend, allow, as permitted by the Law of Legal Transition, that the election of the Attorney General, in this case of the Catalan Republic, was decided in his parliament and not for the Government? Would you allow me? So I think that in this case, as in many others, we made a leap forward into democracy that you obviously didn't care about because you didn't care about democracy. Because one time democracy is to invent fictitious reports in police attestations to impute, prosecute and condemn, and these whitewash the prosecutors and also later validate the jurisdictional organs. Because you, when you questioned the Law of Legal Transition, filled the mouth of legal security. What legal certainty do the independenceists have today in this country? Not one of them. But who says independence speaks of the artists, the masters, of any collection that is objective of their radically uniforming and repressing desire for difference. They remember me, don't they? Martin Niemöller said: "First the Communists were arrested, but I was not a communist and I did not do anything. So we're in this country. One step towards democracy is to judicialize political life to eliminate and wipe out political opponents and yet to fail stupendously as the 21st of December passed. One step towards democracy is to alter the majority of this Parliament by arrest and exile, and thus to obtain some pyrical and ephemeral triumph, as it can probably pass today in some of its motions for resolutions. Cop to democracy is to pervert its sacrosanct Constitution, stripping it of its tools for the defence of the fundamental rights, civil and political rights, and using it exclusively as a tool for the repression of minorities and of the less favoured classes. I must congratulate you, however, on one of your proposals. Well, they did; in fact, entry was indescribable, but then they did. I propose for the first time a strong condemnation of Francoism and Feixism, and... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? Yeah, yeah, so much. Because they used to barricade her with a thousand things because she couldn't vote. I don't know which guardian angel said to them: "Listen to me, look at this, which, if not, will remain that you don't want it approved. And so, I'm telling you, we're gonna take them to the franchise and the fascism. And, therefore, congratulations: after so many and so many years, Mrs. Arrimadas, lords of Ciutadans, begin to progress properly. It's all about getting started. [[Greetings and remorse.]] Valuing the proposals of the SCP, and I don't have much time left. Well, I don't think you care about the reality of our country. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I remember Mr. Iceta's speech...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.78.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.79.0	...of the volts of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.80.0	One moment, deputy – one moment, deputy. Until there's silence, we won't go on. [[Pause.]] Yeah, now, I went on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.81.0	I'm glad that my interventions bring joy, not like yours, that usually generate other feelings, right? Mr. Iceta the year 2012 said: "Reports about independence must be able to do and in advanced democracies they can't do it. Therefore, we must conclude that this is not an advanced democracy, is it not? And that in fact you turn the screen to the majority of the people of Catalonia: almost 80_per_cent is in favor of a reference. For what he does to the Commune, to the CUP, to thank them for the opportunity to have found a point of consensus to validate most of the proposals we have made. And to the People's Party, so I'm sorry to say how I'm going to do it, but, Mr. Fernández, as much as I appreciate it, it's true that your speeches bring them to an extra-parliamentary reality, as they say. Having an original like City and Vox, a copy like you today is a bad copy. But if there is a motion for a resolution that actually has an impact, it is number 8, that of "equality and respect the laws: no privileges for political leaders from the time to democracy. For a moment I thought I had a new fellow in his group, from Ciutadans, who had Mr. Santiago Abascal working for you, because they speak of indults before there was a conviction, as they spoke yesterday of quarrels before there was a rape. I must confess, reading it, that I am astounded before so much cruelty, so much lack of empathy, of complicity, in short, with all those who pervert the state of law in favor of a conception of the State of Francoism. I don't want to end up like this. Go Nadal, and I recommend you read a book like this, huh? [[The speaker shows the chamber a copy of the book Estimates Lluc and Joana: tales from the prison.]] Oriol Junqueras wrote it. Thanks to a resolution proposal like you come up with, you won't have time to spend this Nadal with your children. I am left with one of his poems: "Even though now an ocean separates our beaches, one day you will see me return/ on a bridge of stories and tales/ that I have explained to you. / Then, Lluc and Joana, an infinity of embraces/ will comfort the long absence/ and our souls, now so strong, / will not allow small steals never the smile. I recommend that you read to your children, learn principles and values such as respect, empathy, esteem for others, solidarity and love. Unfortunately, I think with your late days; so much good is wrong. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.82.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Deputy Josep Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.83.0	Thank you, President. Mr Fernández, just tell him that in some European countries to ask for the word as you people are held. This Ple is to sell a fake report that happened here on September 6th and 7th. I wasn't a congressman, but I was here on September 6th and 7th of last year and I saw what happened. It perfectly remembers the reason, the reason why there were the passers-by, the depatxos and the hemicicle that a court order could arrive or that the police could enter to prevent the debate that was about to take place, because it is actually produced a time to democracy. When in a parliament it is not possible to argue, it is not possible to debate, it is not possible to exchange opinions for oppositions that follow, the whole system is threatened, democracy is on the run. That is why parliaments are inviolable, because, as the Constitutional Court says, they can freely form their will. Look, don't get us mixed up in the fact that policies don't have to be about the law, that policies aren't about the law. If we skip a traffic light or let Hisenda down, we'll pay with any city. But here from..., this is a parliament, here from being inviolable for the votes and opinions that we issue in representation of the people will rise. Parliament is here to make laws, no one has to dictate what it has to do; therefore, we cannot be subject to the arbitrariness of the courts. A parliament must be separate, independent and protected from interference from other powers of the State, whether judge or government. Can we end up with this demagogue that devalues democracy and parliamentarianism? - Can you finish it all at once? The principles of inviolability and parliamentary immunity guarantee democracy. Inviolability serves to protect our opinions and our votes here, because they are the opinions and are the votes of the people who voted for us. But it turns out that the courts have been acting with the logic that independence votes and opinions are not protected by parliamentary inviolability. That's why President Forcadell is in prison, that's why there are twenty-four deputies or ex- MPs who are in a ignominious political process. The Parliament through the Legal Service, the criminal defenses, a personal servant, we have all added that the requests and the incidents of execution of the Constitutional Court against the Bureau, designed to end the prosecution with quarrels, are a serious time against parliamentary inviolability and, therefore, an time against democracy. Do you know what the Constitutional Court has answered about this? Res. Nothing. Nothing. Those who should be protecting democracy and protecting the rights of members of this chamber are committed to violating them. Is there a possible major perversion? They talk to democracy at once, but the problem, ladies and gentlemen of 155, is that they have confided democracy with unity of Spain, this is reality. Moreover, you have put the unit of Spain by democracy, because when a judge, to whom no one has voted, substitutes, conditions or usurps our votes and our opinions, who are the citizens, or threatens us or prevents us from expressing it, what are we talking about? Of course not democracy. What is not a waste is that you want to silence our votes and our opinions on the basis of quarrels. There's enough – there's enough. You are the ones who have put the title in this debate, "dep to democracy, but on September 6 and 7 it did not become the date to democracy that we fear some, only you have to pass some laws to celebrate a referendum so that people decide. Democracy in pure state. They say that posing in question the unit of Spain is posing in question democracy, but the Law of the referendum of self-determination precisely had the objective, and I quote literally, "to put in the hands of the Catalans and the Catalans the decision on the future policy of the country with the most radically democratic one we had: the vote. As I was saying, democracy is pure. And democracy existed before the Spanish Constitution. And democracy will continue to exist when Catalonia and Spain simply follow good times. They have also confided the fundamental rights to the Constitution. The fundamental rights that are effectively collected in the Constitution, but which are by the way of the Constitution, because they drink of the international law. Look, the Self-Determination Referendum Law puts the unit of the State in question. That's it. But he does it in the name of democracy. And you, in change, intend to sacrifice democracy to the altar of the unity of your country. They want to guarantee the unit at fucking times, like the first of October. They want to secure the unit at times of tug, with an indecent judicialization of parliamentary activity. But the toga shots are already coming from the moon. Do you want us to talk about democracy? One time democracy was the Constitutional Court, delegitimized, no more than twelve judges, as it should be, but by God, a dead and another refused, half with its expired mandates: they carry the will of two parliaments, a popular referendum. Yes, yes, Mrs. Arrimadas, they loaded it, they did. That's a bit of a democracy. A statute approved by 89 per cent of the Members of this Parliament, approved by the Congress of Deputies, and ratified by 74 per cent of the votes in popular referendum. Yeah, they brushed it, this statue. It was an Alfonso Guerra, who I don't think was reincarnated as an independentist, huh? Actually, he's alive and threatening us with 155. What a surprise. That is why perhaps the blow to continuing democracy. I'll say it as it goes: with the application of 155, which, like we still don't vote well, huh? On the 21st of December, we didn't want to vote well, according to you, now they fly 155 indefinitely. And, look, 155 isn't just – just – suspending autonomy, it's suspending democracy. And in Spain, I think that you should know, there was never democracy without autonomy. And the blow continues when PSOE, PP and Ciutadans are split the name of the judgments and control them for WhatsApp. But, let's get back to it, you want us to talk to democracy for a second? One of the greatest times in democracy that can be done is to engage members to alter the outcome of some elections, so that the parties that have lost have a false majority that have not been given to them by the citizens. And, count, that's what's going on here: they're trying to approve things with the alternation of the 21st of December vote. Deputies of the Commons, deputies of all groups, end this time in democracy. Parliament must respect the results of the ballot box, which means respect for the people and the people who voted for it. And they're still coming here with joke wine on the blanks of this little hemlock. I say to them: I look at his right hand, it is here, that there are voids. They're the only scons that are forced to be emptied. You can come in and out of the hemisphere when you're around. These icons are empty and it's no joke, they're the real shot at democracy. How much dignity must he have to endure his humiliations and less after twenty days in the middle of fame? more than sixty countries that have not reported the inaction of the Constitutional Court. But, of course, you're happy to let us govern on a toga basis and on a fucking basis, because justice and barracks are where you get your best election results. In short, it turns out that from the 21st of December we have recovered the institutions, but we have not recovered democracy. We live in a straitjacket. Catalonia is submissive to a status that has not voted, to a constitution that today only collects 14_percent of Catalans, 14_per_cent in front of an 80_per_cent that supports a self-determination referendum to resolve the issue politically, civilizedly and democratically. So look, not the strangers that Catalonia isn't condemning itself to romance in this shirt of strength forever. This remorse that feels like we're jumping the seams of this straitjacket. And we will do so, as always, from democracy, non-violence and the exercise of universal rights. The only thing that happened here on September 6th and 7th of the past year is that they're debating and approving some laws, which is what parliaments do. If that was a bit of a state, or was it so hard, how come that order didn't come in that we were all afraid to put up with? They want to sell us a fake report. What you have done is a monumental ceremony of filibusterism, to try to prevent you from giving sight to the people. You were stealing Catalan rights, with your own words. For all this, we will continue to defend and humbly exercise democracy. We will not accept lessons from those who fly us to prison to defend our political project. Because independence is a question of democracy, but above all it is a question of justice, it is a just cause. Every effort has been made to find an agreed path for the people of Catalonia to decide. It's not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.84.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.85.0	... but we will never give up – we will never give up – to our right of self-determination. We will defend the democracy that today is on the run and in the morning. They won't be able to subdue us by force and repression. They won't win us, because we will remain firmly determined to build the republic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.86.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.87.0	...civically, peacefully...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.88.0	Congressman, he's run out of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.89.0	...and democraticly. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.90.0	Tell me, Mrs. Arrimadas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.91.0	Yes; Mr President, for contradictions of the Republican Left Member of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.92.0	Twenty-seconds, like Mr. Riera and Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.93.0	When they stole the nationality in Slovenia it was after the war, of death, which is what Mr Torra is claiming. And, by the way, you have had so little skill with your speeches today that you have given us reason: you are claiming 6 and 7, the Law of Transitionality. The coup continues, and you've recognized it here today...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.94.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.95.0	...you guys. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.96.0	Mr. Orobtig, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.97.0	Please reply to this clarification by the honourable Member. I understand that it doesn't correspond to my intervention and that it doesn't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.98.0	So come on, let's go, let's go, let's Quickly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.99.0	So again, it's making it futurable. She predicts that in a future state we have withdrawn nationality from everyone. I, therefore, as always, his word is distorted. It's all based on lies and falsehoods. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.100.0	Say, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.101.0	Yes, to ask for reading before we proceed to the vote of our..., of the voting part of motions for resolutions Nos 2 and 9, as we have announced before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.102.0	Yeah, it's been announced. It's been asked to read from the 2nd and the 9th. Any more, Mr. Fernández?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.103.0	Yes, by a very powerful contradiction, too. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, the..., no...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.104.0	No, a moment, a moment. I didn't give him the word. Why did you tell me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.105.0	For contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.106.0	Not like that in general. Either you specify it or I don't give you the word, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.107.0	No, a very concrete contradiction, it's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.108.0	With what deputy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.109.0	No, that Mr Orobtig has also asked for the floor with his right hand, he must be a fascist too, then. Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.110.0	Mr. Fernández... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, I haven't given him the word, we won't get into a debate. [[You see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see,]] Keep going. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Pedret, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.111.0	I simply wish to remind you that I have asked for a reading of the motion for a first resolution of our parliamentary group before I vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.112.0	Yes, that's why I was asking now what readings have been asked: your first reading, Mr Pedret; the 2nd and 9th of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Any more? [[Pause.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.113.0	Yes, Mr President, please, we are asking for reading of the motion for a resolution number 5 of our group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.114.0	All right. [[Long break.]] We'll start voting. Number 1 I understand that, Mr. Pedret, is referring to the one that's traded, because the 1 is traded, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.115.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.116.0	All right. So we're going to vote on this later, and so we're going to vote on it at the end, and so we're going to read it then, too. We therefore vote, first of all, on the motions for resolutions by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 57 votes to 4, with 66 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 61, with 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 29 votes to 62, with 36 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Six. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. Now we've voted at 6. I've announced the 6, we've voted the 6. We're voting five, because we skipped it, right? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We've skipped the 5; yes, yes, yes, we've skipped the 5. Tothom was aware that he voted the 6, now, so. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So resolution 6_has been rejected by 16 votes in favour, 101 against and 8 abstentions. Let's vote five, shall we? We are voting on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 25 votes in favour, 96 against and 4 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. We are voting, first of all, on the motion for a resolution number 1. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 58 votes in favour, 61 against and 8 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution number 7_has been the object of a transaction with motion for a resolution number... I don't have to read the results, yes. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Right now. Motion for a resolution No. 7, which is the following, was the subject of a compromise with the motion for a resolution No. 1 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. Therefore, we will vote for it at the end too. Let us now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 62, with 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 62, with 25 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote on the motion for a resolution No. 1 begins. This motion for a resolution is rejected by 39 votes in favour, 58 against, 29 abstentions and one Member who has not voted. Let us now vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 88 votes to 36, with 3 abstentions. Motion for a resolution number 3_has been the subject of a transaction with the motion for a resolution number 1 of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republic Parliamentary Group. Therefore, we will vote for it at the end. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 84 votes to 43, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Of course, we had to read it. Anyway, we'll read it now, huh? I read the results: for 64 votes in favour, 61 against, no abstentions, and two Members who have not voted, this motion for a resolution, which we are actually now reading, is adopted. Secretaries, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.117.0	Thank you, President. Motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem : « Motion for a resolution number 5. Unilaterality. The Catalonian Parliament notes the weakness of the unilateral route that expels more than half of the Catalan population and calls on the Catalan parties to abandon it permanently.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.118.0	Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 13 votes to 62, with 52 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 87 votes to 39, with no abstentions. Let's now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. Let us first vote on resolution No. 1. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by three votes in favour, 65 against and 58 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution is rejected by three votes in favour, 124 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 62 votes to 65, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. The CUP resolution No. 4 – Crida Constituent was rejected by 22 votes in favour, 103 against, no abstentions and two Members who have not voted. We now vote on resolution 5, including the correction of errors submitted. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 70 votes to 57, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 62 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by three votes in favour, 56 against and 68 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 62 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 70 votes to 57, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 70 votes to 57, with no abstentions. We now vote on the motions for resolutions submitted jointly by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group. The first of the motions for resolutions was the subject of a joint settlement with the motion for a resolution No. 3 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Therefore, we will vote for it at the end too. We shall therefore proceed to vote on Motion for a resolution No 2, including the correction of errors submitted. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 70 votes to 57, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's start with the motion for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 70, with 17 abstentions. We shall now proceed to vote on resolution No. 2. Before, however – before, however – the proposal was read. Secretaries, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.119.0	Yes, President. Motion for a resolution No 2, tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group: 'Respect for plurality and democracy: condemns all-embracing and violent attitudes. The Parliament of Catalonia strongly condemns Francoism, fascism, Nazism and any other extreme right-wing totalitarian movements, such as the extreme left-wing movement, which use coercion, intimidation or any other type of violence with the aim of imposing their ideas, and which in any case this violence can be justified as a legitimate instrument of claim of no idea.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.120.0	Put your vote on this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes in favour, against and three abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 62, with 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on motion for resolution No 5, including the correction of errors presented. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 86, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 9. Before, however, we give reading, as requested. Secretaries, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.121.0	Yes, President. Motion for a resolution No. 9, tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group: "For public authorities compromised with freedom and against violence: call for the non-realization of illegal actions announced to paralyze Catalonia on 21-D. The Catalan Parliament urges the Government of the Generality to: 1. Take all necessary precautionary measures to prevent the illegal actions announced for the self-named CDR and other groups by 21 December aimed at preventing the celebration of the Council of Ministers, blocking public transport and communications and obstructing the free exercise of the personal, family and labour life of Catalans. Two. In the event that such illegal actions are ultimately produced, act proactively, as is their duty, in all resources at their abst to prevent them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.122.0	Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on resolution No. 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 40 votes to 87, with no abstentions. And let us now vote on the two compromise proposals. In the first place, the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution number 1 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, and the proposal for resolution number 7 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, including the correction of errors presented. This proposal has been read out. Therefore, I ask the secretaries to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.123.0	Yes, President. Motion for a compromise resolution presented by the Parliamentary Group Socialist Party and Units for Progress: "Condemns vandalism, aggression, threats or intimidation. The Parliament of Catalonia condemns the vandal acts against its political parties, insults, threats, aggressions or settlement against groups and individuals who are supreme in Catalonia. Thus, it rejects the vandal or violent acts that have occurred in concentrations and demonstrations celebrated in the last months in Catalonia. Parliament also expresses the need to eradicate from the public debate the speech of hatred, the dehumanization of the adversary and any form of intimidation or violence directed at those who think different from one or the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.124.0	Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 124 votes to none, with 3 abstentions. And we now vote on the motion for resolution No. 1 of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, negotiated with the motion for resolution No. 3 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 70 votes to 57, with no abstentions. There are no more motions for resolutions to vote. So, there's a raise in the session... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] One moment, one moment. Why ask me the word, Mrs. Geis?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.125.0	By virtue of Article 90 of the Rules, by observance of the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.126.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.127.0	Just to make it clear that the Group of Together for Catalonia, and some other groups, we have lost some vote because we have three fellow Members defending the rights of other Members of the Committee...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.128.0	Mrs. Geis...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.129.0	...of United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.130.0	...that he knows is not an explanation of vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.131.0	I wish you'd let it go.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-12-20-2204.132.0	...is not the observance of the Rules, Mrs. Geis. There are no more points on the agenda, there are no more motions for resolutions to vote. The session's up. A lot of good parties for everyone.
