ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.1.0	Allow me, first of all, to greet the representatives of Parliament, the former advisers and the authorities who are accompanying us today. I'm opening the session, but I can't say good morning today. [[Agenda debate and investiture vote of MP Jordi Turull and Black, candidate proposed to the Presidency of the Generality (continuation)]] [[201-00003/12]] The second session of the investiture debate, as stipulated in the Rules of Procedure and as close as possible in a situation of democratic normality, should be held, but we are not at a normal time. We are at a profoundly exceptional time. Today, Mr. Jordi Turull and Black, candidate for the presidency of the Generality, should be here, in this hemisphere, to his popular sovereignty, to expose his plan of government and try, again, to achieve the confidence of the chamber to be invested. This is the dynamic that should have followed the parliamentary debate, in an ordinary context, without external interference. We must denounce that the powers of the State are preventing the will of the citizenry, expressed in the ballot box, from manifesting freely. Deputy Jordi Turull can't be here today. He can't be here today to exercise his right to political representation because he's in prison. The candidate for the Presidency of the Generality is in prison, together with other deputies of this chamber, among them, my predecessor, President Forcadell. It is obvious that under these conditions, the investiture ple cannot be celebrated, but it is also evident that, given the exceptionality and gravity of the moment, it is necessary to speak. As far as we are concerned, as far as Parliament is concerned, representatives of the citizenry, speak out and do so freely. If we acted as if nothing had happened, we would be normalizing a situation of injustice, involution and repression. And neither the dignity of Congressman Jordi Turull, nor the dignity of this institution deserve it. That is why the announcement that I will suspend the plenary, that I suspend it. But before that, they will have a round of words for a maximum of fifteen minutes per parliamentary group, so as to stand up to the enormous exceptionality and gravity of the moment. I don't want to finish these words without sending a warm and heartfelt hug to the company and friends Carme Forcadell, Jordi Turull, Dolors Bassa, Raül Romeva, Josep Rull, and Marta Rovira, as well as the rest of the prisoners and exiles. I won't rest until you follow home with us. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you. Thus, the order of intervention will follow the sequence foreseen for the plenary, from major to minor, ending for the proposing group. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.2.0	Just to say, Mr President, that it has been quite clear that you are not the President of this whole Parliament, since you have only received the applause of half the Members. You could have made a perfectly neutral speech and you didn't want to do it. Once again, being the president only half of this Chamber. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.3.0	With regard, of course, to the word and your word, Mr Carrizosa, but they ask that political considerations are made in this fifteen-minute turn. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Mr Albiol, why ask me the word? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.4.0	Yes, Mr President, on a point of order. We have listened very carefully to your speech, your words, your approach, and we have to say that we are concerned to see how, although it is true that the investiture debate cannot be held because the candidate is missing, we do understand from your words that you want to create a certain debate with this round of interventions in all groups. You pointed out, and we share it – there we do share it – that we need to speak right now and that everyone can express themselves, and this is the temple of the word and the discussion in the good sense. But we understand that, because of the dignity of the institution itself, because of the dignity of this Parliament of Catalonia, this expression of opinion has to be done in the appropriate format. And we do not think that these interventions will have to be carried out over the course of a full investiture, which you have already stated will be suspended. For this reason, for the sake of dignity, for a question of forms and for a question of procedure, Mr President, we would ask you to open this round of speeches, this debate which you intend to open, in form. And in such a way that you disavow this plenary, which brings together the Board of Spokesmen, which convenes an extraordinary plenary for the hour that you consider appropriate today or tomorrow and we, as it cannot be otherwise, will participate in it, because we believe it can be enriching. But we'll do it in the right format. If, finally, your decision, Mr President, is to move forward and this round of interventions is to be taken up in the investiture plenary, in the second session of the investiture plenary, we understand that it is not acceptable, we understand that it is a fraud of law, let me tell you, and we will not participate in it, we will leave this session. But I believe, I insist, as I am transmitting to you, and I now conclude my request, my intervention, that the right, the right and the worthy for the institution is that you deconvene the same, as you pointed out, call us a meeting of spokespersons and when you consider it opportune, this plenary will be held, where we can express ourselves with complete freedom...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.5.0	[[Mr. Albiol, yes, if I can go in the end...]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.19.0	...and with complete dignity. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.6.0	I think I have been very explicit, as I have decided that this debate is being developed, as I suggest that the groups... that you have the word, at this time, I insist, to speak before the difficult, complex situation that sees the country. Therefore, I repeat, there will be fifteen minutes per parliamentary group, in the order that we have already established. And, therefore, we continue with the debate, we continue with these interventions. It is the return of Mrs Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Thank you very much. [[The Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia leaves the Sessions Hall.]] Madame Arrimadas, when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.7.0	Thank you, Mr. President. We're staying. We are going to remain to represent a million people, because as has been said, this situation is not normal. That a president of the Parliament of Catalonia gives a political rally at the plenary session of the Parliament, from the Bureau of the Parliament, is not normal. That we have a government that has repeatedly jumped the laws, is not normal. Having parliamentary groups talking about the people of Catalonia excluding half of the people of Catalonia is not normal... [[applause]] It's not normal. [[The applause continues.]] I want to make it clear that, of course, this is not a full investiture, as we already advanced and said two days ago, and this is also not the second session of an investiture investiture. We are here to defend all those who think that this process has been a great failure, which has done much social, economic, institutional and political damage. That we don't need to extend this process. And yes, it is an exceptional moment – an exceptional moment – in which there are many feelings right now in Catalan citizenship, many – many – different, and sometimes faced, in most cases, faced. Because yes, today too, it is an exceptional moment because many Catalans are seeing this debate with deep sadness, with deep concern, outraged by what has happened on their land in recent years. Sad for the social conflict that some politicians have generated, to get absolutely nothing – to get absolutely nothing. And these feelings are also Catalonia, and these Catalans are also Catalonia. And surely, and you are right because you will defend the part of Catalonia today that you feel the feelings that you express and that is Catalonia, too, and that too must be respected, we do. The question is whether you do the same, whether you respect the Catalans who are outraged by this process today, outraged at how this Parliament has been treated; outraged that the President of the Bureau of Parliament makes a political speech. That is the big question I would like you to answer today. Because we respect you, and it is true and we know and recognize that there are many citizens today with feelings that you are going to explain and express. But no, the situation is not normal. And we have been warning you for a long time, because, that this judicial situation could occur, the gentlemen of the Government of the Generalitat have had many warnings and warnings. Not only of Parliament's lawyers, not only of the Council of Guarantees Statutes, not only of the courts in different resolutions, warnings... No, it is also of the democratic opposition of this Parliament, which we have repeated in the meetings of the Bureau, even in the private talks : « What are you doing? What kind of madness is this? Where do you want to take Catalonia? We've said it countless times. They have had more warnings and more opportunities than any other citizen when it comes to jumping over the laws, more than any other citizen who can see us now. But as we warned them, they were warned by the judges, the lawyers, the statutory guarantee board, what were you doing? They came here, sometimes, at the plenary session of the Parliament, with the rulings of the judge, and they took pictures, and laughed, and criticized us, and insulted us, and you said that we were not Catalonia, that we were against the people of Catalonia. No further warnings and warnings have been given to anyone, probably, in the democratic history of this country. But do you know what was going on? Do you know what's going on in the background? That there are gentlemen and parties in Catalonia who were thought to live in a system of impunity and immunity. And worst of all – and I think it was perhaps your biggest mistake, ladies and gentlemen of the process – that you thought you were facing Rajoy, and you were facing a democracy of the 21st century of the European Union. That's what happened to them. [[applause]] : that they did not face Rajoy! Because luckily – luckily – you alone are not Catalonia, Catalonia we are all, and luckily Spain is not just Rajoy. But that's what you don't understand. As you believed that you were Catalonia, you have believed that Rajoy is Spain. And neither you are only Catalonia nor Rajoy is only Spain. And the latest events. There are people who can't run away, there are people who have to stay here, autonomous, paying their bills, the most expensive IRPF in Spain for the middle class; there are traders who have stayed here, watching them lower their billing by the process; there are families who have stayed here broken, without talking to friends and neighbors and co-workers because of their fault. The merchants, the self-employed and the families that you have harassed and disturbed life cannot flee, you have to stay here paying taxes and facing the daily reality of Catalonia. And I think, honestly... I don't understand them, and I think that many citizens don't even understand their own internal strategy. That some run away, others will at least face justice, that Mr Puigdemont will continue to issue letters yesterday with the Member of the Government of the Republic... do you think that helps solve the issue? Do you believe that a fleeing person can help others who have gone before the judges to have a better judicial situation? Can you explain this kind of strategy? , if there is a strategy. Because I believe that there is no strategy, that the process has been a collective failure – a collective failure – of all Catalonia, of independence, of the independence forces. I believe that this reflection you really have to do, in a day like today you have to do this reflection: to whom has the process served? Who has benefited from the process in Catalonia? What the...? What for? – For what? They can't even say – they can't even say – that they exercise as a parliamentary majority, they can't even say that those seventy deputies of the three independence groups..., it becomes reality in Parliament. We saw a failed investiture of Mr Turull just a few hours ago. They can't even say they have a parliamentary majority, not even that. I know that his strategy was another, I know that the strategy of part of independence was that today Mr Turull was president of the Generalitat. But they don't even have that! They don't even have that vision, that picture. Who has the process served? How much longer are we going to wait to start talking about what unites us with Catalans? How much longer will we have to wait to be able to greet us in the hallway? Ladies and gentlemen of the process, say hello – say hello, say hello – [[applause]] down the hall, say hello. I tell you one thing – I tell you one thing – I hope that coexistence will come to this Parliament first, so that we can bring it to society as well. We will never deny the greeting of a representative of a parliamentary political force of many Catalans behind. We must begin to exercise coexistence, respect, normality. We need common sense, we need peace of mind, we need normality. We have to give a quiet image. Many Catalans are worried. They're thinking, "What's going to happen in Catalonia? What is going to happen in my land? Many wonder if they're going to... well, if they're going to have to change their lives for what you've generated. And we have warned you many times, not just us – lawyers, court notices, Parliament lawyers, outside Parliament, the Board of State Guarantees, the opposition –: that's all right. Ladies and gentlemen of the process: enough, enough of the process. They've lost, they've failed. It is a social, economic, institutional, political failure. That's enough. Pro-processes, please – pro-processes. Let's go back to the seny, get back to normality, get back to living together, get back to legality, get back to parliamentary political activity between normality and law. A project for all, a project for all Catalans and Catalans. We need to reflect, I insist on this idea. Today there are many feelings found in Catalonia; I only ask you not to think only of those of your voters. Because you have also generated feelings in which you are not your voters, deep, as deep as you can be yours, I assure you: worry, fear, indignation, shame of what is happening in Catalonia. Those feelings, I only ask you to consider that they also exist, that you also think that that is Catalonia. Because we are very aware that you are Catalonia too, we have never denied it: neither the greeting, nor its catalanity, nor that you are part of Catalonia, nor your feelings, nor anything at all, of anything. I ask you on a day like today to think, to reflect on everything you have done; to think, to reflect on what it has served, for what; to think and to reflect that the time has come to tell the truth, that the time has come not to generate more collective frustration. We have been warning for years: "The process will only generate frustration, collective frustration. And that is all you have given even your voters: frustration, indignation, conflict, concern, sadness. Can we begin to change those feelings by illusion, by hope, by coexistence? Can we start doing that already? Do you need another ten years to begin to realize what you are causing in Catalonia? Politicians can't create problems, politicians can't break living together. Politicians can't jump us the laws. Do you believe that citizens on foot, when they receive a letter from a court or a traffic letter, are selfies and crush them in the shredder and laugh? Do you believe that citizens, when faced with a judicial process, face the same irresponsibility that you have done? There's enough, please; please, there's enough. Let's start sewing up Catalan society, start talking about Catalonia's social and economic reality, start working for coexistence, please – please. And lastly – and this is addressed to the Speaker of Parliament –: please, Speaker of Parliament, enough to make speeches and left-wing meetings from the Bureau of Parliament, please – please. [[Greetings.]] I want to remember – I want to remember – that there is still a request for a plethora to be celebrated because the Speaker of the Parliament is down at the Faristol and can make a debate. And it wouldn't be a normal situation, no, it wouldn't be a normal situation, it wouldn't have to be. But that's not a normal situation. And, when the Speaker of Parliament is able to make a meeting of the Left from the security of the Bureau of Parliament, he should be able to download here to the Faristol and make a debate with all Catalans and Catalans to explain what they are doing. [[Greetings.]] You thought you were facing Rajoy, and you were facing half Catalonia and a consolidated democracy of the 21st century of the European Union. And luckily, neither Catalonia are you nor Rajoy is only Spain. Think, please, because I hope this is the last plenary of Parliament we all do – all, all – with this feeling and with these feelings of indignation, because we too feel indignation; of sadness, because we too feel sadness about everything that is going on, about what you have provoked. I only ask that this be the last plenary session, please, to be held in these circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.8.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Now it's the return of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's the return of Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.9.0	Many honourable President, Members, Members, Citizens, yesterday, March 23rd, will last for years and years. The dignity shown yesterday for our companies and companies will accompany them forever more, and our thanks for them will be eternal. But shame will persecute those who believe they are winning at times, alienating the personal suffering of many righteous and good people, and also those who are silent, indifferent. They will be tortured for years by a question: what do you do before this monstrosity? Democracy in the Spanish State has definitely been suspended, and there is no room for equity. All– all–, absolutely all, we are in danger before a state completely out of control, which pursues any kind of dissent. The foundations of the Spanish State had long been stunned; they had given countless symptoms of fatigue, and the State had remained deaf before the clamour of thousands and thousands of Catalans, thousands and thousands of people in the streets and in the polls, and not only in Catalonia, but also in the towns of Spain. Now that's finally over. The building that many people of good faith had tried to build since the year 78 was touched with death, collapsed. The state of law has failed. The Spanish State has entered a definitive phase of decomposition. Yesterday's gonna be chasing them for years. We will not let it fall – never – into oblivion. Catalunya said enough. Whether we sort out the State or democracy, and we will always – always – be at the side of democracy. Yesterday the Spanish State did not destroy independence, yesterday the Spanish State did not end a political movement, as they wanted: yesterday the Spanish State signed its own feeling, and it inflicted a time from which it will not be able to recover. Yesterday the State made the triumph of democracy more inevitable. With its abuse of power, with arbitrariness, the prostitution of the judicial system and the basic pillars of democracy, the State is destroying itself slowly, but irreversibly, and uncomfortably, before the horrified gaze of all democrats. The Catalan people have said enough, Catalonia has said enough, and the Spanish democrats have to say it too, and they have to do it now, they have to do it quickly and they have to make it clear, because they will be the next. The State is falling apart in the hands, and when it's gone, it'll be too late. Yesterday five vans loaded with dignity traveled by car to Madrid, and one to exile. Yesterday the Spanish State did not make five good people: yesterday it made two million Catalans, and they brushed us in the face. They want to steal our dignity, they want to hurt us and they hurt us, they destroy families, they destroy good people, they hurt us, and we don't mess with each other. We were outraged, we were outraged, and we cried. We will welcome another time of righteous people who we believe and who are proudly guilty – guilty – of obeying the democratic mandate of their fellow citizens. But this immense pain does not cause us to lower our heads or make us give up, as Mr. Millo's tips of yesterday night, the tips of 155, the unidentified moves managed by the Government Delegation. No one will make us forget our principles. « Principles, a word that many do not know. Principles that are the backbone of our political activity, republican principles that support us, define us, and that do not fall into doubt, survive us. Republican principles that many of our associates have been the best witnesses of. And then they didn't get us to give up our longings. This pain that we feel does not stop us from fighting every day to build a better country for everyone. It doesn't make us give up helping those who need it the most. It does not make us forget that our priority is always – always – the common good. And it doesn't make us give up the republic or its values. Every attempt, they lose. We'll turn all this pain, this rage, into more strength and more conviction. Every time they try, they lose us a little more. Every time they try to humiliate and destroy us, they lose a few more. And they'll lose. They'll lose us forever. To those who speak to us of « legality and the rule of law, to whom they give us lessons of justice and constitutionality, we want to remind Urdangarín, Barcenas, Rat, Granados, Matas, Camps, Costa, Rita Barbera, Correa, El Bigotes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] While Oriol Junqueras, Forn, Sánchez, Cuixart, while Carme Forcadell, Dolors Bassa, Raül Romeva, Jordi Turull and Josep Rull are in prison; while they make the ridiculous international persecuting Carles Puigdemont, Meritxell Serret, Toni Comín, Lluís Puig, Clara Ponsatí, Anna Gabriel and Marta Rovira ; while they all represent the dignity of a country that is impoverished, you have not kept up with Mr. Rajoy. Today the good people are in prison and exile and their hosts – their hosts – camp for the street. They have lived installed in a sense of impunity that has ended. We know that Catalonia is not perfect, we know that we have suffered the scourge of corruption. But you know what? That while we want a better country, that while we want things to change, you want everything to be the same, you want to continue to plunder the State and put it in the service of your private vices. While we want a net republic and tomorrow, you want to preserve a corrupt monarchy that always benefits the same. And do they know what their problem is? May our republic unravel all its shames and that they will never be able to accept our democratic cry. Yesterday we got a shot, a very hard shot – very hard. Yesterday we got angry, we cried, we were outraged, we felt the cold of exile and the pain of the cell. Yesterday we suffered for our companies, for their families, for their children, and we have all the right to do so – all the right. But we must rise quickly; rise up to add, to weave, to fight, to win, to fall this anti-democratic state among all, to build a future where everyone cares. We have to build, and we will, even with democracy's boxers, as Nelson Mandela taught us. Some MPs have their faces down when we look at them. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It costs so much injustice and so much shame. Some, not you, have even sent us messages that we thank, shames. It's hard to assume that this is their state and it's hard for them to assume that this state will not change. For us and for a lot of people, it's been a long time since it was. For some, it's been a long time. For some, it just stopped being on September 20th. Or for others it stopped being a little bit of a fuck-up on October 1st. For others, October 3rd, when an archaic and self-excluded institution of Catalonia addressed its threatening words to us. Or 155. Or November 2nd. And, for others, it stopped being your state yesterday. The Spanish State can no longer be that of Catalans – never more. The way it treats a state its citizens is the show of how it is this state. This is the best example that there is no future – there is no future – within the Kingdom of Spain. They're attacking all the independents because they're the alternative to the status quo. They're the switch option. And change is the end of privileges and the end of those that have always been. But it doesn't just bother them that Republicanism grows and that it's the majority of Catalan society. They're bothering the opposition, they're bothering the tweets, they're bothering the exhibits. They annoy the lyrics of the songs, the books, the titles, the colors, the links – the links. They're harassing women's clams, pensioners' complaints, and ballot boxes. They bother the ballot boxes when their result is not what you want. So, excuse the pests, but we're working to make a better world. Many thanks, but, despite you, we will continue to work to make a better world. The State of Catalonia does not only attack the independenceists. The application of 155 punishes all citizens; the citizens for the simple fact of being, whether you are independent or not. The irresponsible application of this 155 puts our public services in danger and ours has already been ill of welfare. Aznar assumed that before it was the Catalonian trench that Spain. And their tails think they're out. But the only thing they would achieve in this way is that even those who don't share our republic project with the embrace before a state that they thought they were, that they felt fit, but today they see that there is no problem, no problem, in legislating against them and their future and the future of their children. Between Catalans and the State, the State has chosen itself, and whoever has to take it forward, whether it is independent or not. The new form of repression is tried in the Spanish State and when you, Lords of Ciutadans, are not useful, they will go for you, and then the smile will freeze. Ladies and gentlemen, on the 21st of December the Republican majority again won – to win. And, in democracy, when you win and you have the majority of parliament, you listen to a candidate and you invest him as president of your government. We're going to have to vote for a president here today. Today we have to vote for Jordi Turull. As before, we had to be able to vote for Carles Puigdemont or Jordi Sánchez. And today, here, to do so, there should be a lot of Members who can't be there. They want to win the courts they've lost, another time, the polls. Finally, let me refer to my party, a party with eighty-seven years of history, a party where in these eighty-seven years we have been persecuted for exile, for the undertakings of two governments, we have suffered the havoc of its president; where one-quarter of the seventy-thousand leftist militants in the 1930s were taken, shot or died in the war. The president of the party, today, the Oriol, is in prison, and the secretary general, Marta Rovira, in exile, to avoid the arbitrariness of a justice that does not honor his name. Today, cartoons of activists, a few insured here, are being investigated in a general cause and, unfortunately, here we are. We're more than we've ever been, more convinced than we've ever been. As always, we're up, and I'm sorry to tell you that we're going to go like this: we're up in front of you with a very tall head. They don't make us because, we never give up, we persist, we persist and we persist. We persist and fight to be, as in 1640, as in 1714, as in year 36, as in 39, as in 78 or as in 81. We persist in winning freedom. We are the fruit of many defeats, but we are the result of all victories, no doubt. And we'll do it together and be even more, much more than we're walking today. We earn freedom every step of the way, make ourselves worthy of this country, give up our grudges, turn indignation into energy and heart. Persevere. We turn anger into love and construction. Let's win the freedom hugging everyone – everyone. We make our eyes feel inside and outside our borders. We denounce, we ask for help, we work, we work, we do not stop, we rise, we walk, from the pau and the pau, from the firm and the conviction, to the victory. Res's up, it's still going on. Nelson Mandela said that the greatest glory is not falling, but always rising up. And he also said: "I did not have a specific belief, except that our cause was just, it was very strong and I was gaining more and more support every day. Yesterday, between indignation, but also with the echelon of our fellow citizens, we grasped the deep sense of his words. Target democracy, viscose freedom, viscose the republic and viscose the people of Catalonia! [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.10.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. Now it's the turn of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. It's Mr. Miquel Iceta's turn, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.11.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, our group raised yesterday this House's disclaimer and we thought it was what was going on. But today the president has gathered us, he has explained his reasons to us, he said to us: "Actually, we cannot make a plethora of investiture, but to the plethora I will give the word to the group to speak to you. And it's doing this effort of empathy and understanding that maybe today we're not scrupulously completing the Rules. But if there's any time to do it, it's this, because we live in a country that's got the color. Some, "we are struck by a forceful, even disproportionate, action, for some considered unjust, by the judiciary, and others by the political uncertainty that has been reddening since then and by the separation in two halves of our people. All with the color engorged. All with their reason. And we, in this sense, want to reaffirm once again our willingness to make an effort to empathize with all the citizens of Catalonia. And also with those who have been affected by judicial decisions we met yesterday. An effort of empathy does not mean sharing arguments, motivations and objectives, but it does understand what is behind every person, every word and every action. We've self-imposed this obligation. And that's why today we also wanted to intervene in this House, because it's worth it that this feeling that we all share a lot of different positions is transferred to the conjunction of our people. And now I turn to expressing them the position of our group, a position based on two pillars: one, first, that it is respect for legality, the state of law and the separation of powers; and, other, the conviction that political problems can only be solved in politics. And we are ahead of the political problem most affected by democracy since 1981. We live in democracy. Our presence here today, in this Parliament of Catalonia, shows me. But certainly our democracy must win in quality, it can and must win in quality. But this does not completely distort the obligation to respect existing legality and the mechanisms and majorities necessary to change it. And also the absolute need to respect the separation of powers and the authority from whom to verify the compliment of the law, the authority of the judiciary. That said, and we've said it a long time ago, precautionary measures of preventive detention are disproportionate. But I also want to remember: in no case alter the right to the presumption of constitutionally recognized innocence. What do we offer them, then? As far as the law is concerned, the primacy of politics and the search for the widest possible agreements. Someone so little suspicious of Felipe González has talked these days about the risks of turning politics away, of marginalising it. I think the quote is correct; Felipe González said yesterday, among other things: "You don't have to defend yourself in the judges in order not to assume the responsibility of politics. It's a hundred percent match. Anava was still more far when she said – and logically I lean on the critical part that she expressed –: "We have sheltered ourselves in the robes, because as politicians we are useless. He was talking about a very old political school, the risks of the government of the courts. And because the courts don't rule there has to be government. Government that it is nothing other than the collective action decided democratically and applied with respect to majorities and minorities. Today, the Lehendakari Urkullu himself, a person I also admire, says: "Politics are gone. First bound, I think, for these questions we are ourselves, as representatives of the people of Catalonia. And, therefore, our responsibility today, however much the pain we may feel for each other for reasons, sometimes, quite different, is to put politics back on the first level. I will tell you..., and I know that it is controversial, but our group, when it said: "May I hold the responsibilities of government to whom I can exercise them fully, I did so precisely for this sense of putting politics on the first course and not subjecting it in any case to judicial decisions. Not only... I already know that later it was controversial, but there were well-known statements of speakers who think very differently from what we think in the same sense, when they say to us: "You can't preside over a government from the prison or: "It's time that the members of the government have full freedom to act and are free to see." There can be no return to politics without regaining control of our self-government institutions. This should be the first point of any policy program that I deserve this name and that can be discussed and shared across broad sectors of this room. And that means choosing a president who can effectively exercise his or her task fully and who accepts it from the respect of legality, so that he or she does not fall back into mistakes and consequences that we all regret. And you have to form a government under these conditions. We know perfectly well that in the chamber there is an independent majority; with some difficulties of understanding, but the majority composed by various groups this is normal. This majority has the right to choose president and form government. Now, I also say to them: they should be a president and a government that does not forget that they do not have a social majority in the past and that, having full legitimacy to govern, they have the obligation to do so out of respect for legality and counting on the joint citizenship that they have the responsibility to represent. I need to think about the whole country, and not just in one part, big as it is. I understand..., and when I hear speeches in which one believes to be right and is employed in the most powerful civic virtues... But I ask them: do not think that there is another half of the country that is not his own, that of whom he is, that he has no civic virtues, that he has no reason and that, therefore, he does not deserve to be listened to and taken into account. It would be a gravissim– gravissim– error. Deia: Independentist groups have the responsibility to tell us if they really want to rule with this right that the polls on 21 December gave them. Allow me a reflection that I make on behalf of my group but which, as you always know, has a very large personal load: from our point of view, the exit to this very serious political, institutional, economic and social crisis requires a very large majority. They know you're very difficult, we don't want to fool anyone. But every time we say, as I said, "the most important crisis since the 81st year, as you say before and after, "the definite abandonment of certain perspectives, whatever the argument, the abst of this crisis is obvious that it is exceeding all of us, individually and collectively. Do we think that a government on the one hand will be able to deal successfully with this problem? Allow me, I doubt it very much. I do not doubt the good will of anyone, the good intentions; but we have also seen that many times good will and good intentions do not prevent us from moving forward on steep and rolling and sometimes back to unthinking battles. We are very far from the consensus needed to make a political operation like that which I am somehow describing. But on the other hand, we are very, very, very much in the mood of falling into an abyss that makes division or rupture, that makes fracture irreversible. And, effectively – and I said in another sense Sergi Sabria – we may at some point ask ourselves what we did when we tied up this effort, when we tied up this effort of empathy, of sharing, of giving up the maximum program for the benefit of the minimum program; when what tied up was to recover the institutions of self-government and a government of Catalonia that I deserved that name. What did we do? We took refuge in the comfort of each of your blocks, trained for the deep conviction of being right, all right, and that the others are wrong? I think it would be a mistake. We are all aware, and we have spoken many times, of the obstacles to our economic and social progress, to the advent of our self-government, to the fulfilment of the national aspirations of our people. But the bigger we draw the obstacle, the smaller our policy looks, if it is not able to embrace the city council and a large majority of this chamber. We know it's risky, I'll tell you this: so risky that we have to agree on some that we think radically against Article 155 of the Constitution, look; look if it makes them difficult. Some think it was a whim of an authoritarian state destined to annihilate independence, others think it was the way to restore legality; look if we are far away. And I've still left me, obviously, intermediate positions that I don't want to demerge, years the contrary; but I wanted to situate the two extremes. Well, either we accept that names approaching positions of these extremes are capable of finding the way forward or we'll make a mistake again; and I think we'll all make a mistake again. Some of us think that September 6 and 7 actually broke the law, that our rights were raised, that it was a mistake to proclaim a republic and not to call an election; yes, we do. But what does she give us? The satisfaction of being convinced we're right? Does this resolve any problem of the citizens of our country, this conviction, this comfort? I don't think so. And that's why I say: we think that breaking the law in a democratic state is a hard mistake that has hard consequences, as we have seen, but above all on the political side, which is our obligation, the compromise that we have contracted before the citizenship of our country. Let's get back to politics now. And it's true that some people will find what I'm going to tell you a little bit now, but... getting self-government institutions back is an effort? , to have a government of the Generality sitting on this first bench? That he answers questions of opposition every day? , that each week can use the governance instruments to serve a country project? I don't think there's much left. And then we put the country's top three priorities ahead – candidate Jordi Turull's speech on the other day talked about it. Do we not agree that it is necessary to boost the economy of this country, its competitiveness? Do we not agree that we need to recover social justice, eroded even more by the crisis, which we cannot yet give for overcoming? Can't we agree on how to move forward in the self-government we have, in the way some people want, far more far than mine? It's not worth it, is it? That is why, President, I may have done it in one way, but perhaps today I can speak in this House, transmitting, following the position of our group..., we were going to make a hurry and current the coming week, to make another round all great, slow speeches and toast to the sun without working out the real possibility of giving meaning and content to the yearnings of our people, effectively divided, and above all giving some reason because this color engulfs that beats Catalonians may be a little less engulfed, so that at least their representatives are up. If you want to dial it, you need to really want it. It will be very difficult, but I say to you: we are willing to leave the shelter of the blocs to advance in the open camp of the dialect. It will be the best contribution for the country, and also..., and I will say to them: and I think of them and of them, of the people and their families who are now passing it worse and that you know perfectly well who they are. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.12.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, it is the turn of Mr Xavier Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.13.0	Thank you, Mr President; thank you, Members and Members. I agree with something that the representative of Ciutadans said, the Inés Arrimadas: all feelings at these moments are Catalonia, all of us are Catalonia. And who has the capacity to hear, all of us, and to empathize with all and all of us will be able to build this country together. I also agree with another thing that Mrs. Arrimadas said: "Spain is not just Mariano Rajoy. I, without acrid... it's not just Mariano Rajoy or those of you who are keeping him in power every day. You can't make it look like this isn't here either. Before yesterday I said in this same chamber, in that investiture session, that we were living sad hours, that we were living the darkest hours of democracy and self-government in Catalonia. Yesterday those words were confirmed, and today, beyond the value of what we have had so far here, so let us face it very clearly – beyond that value, that we will surely have different diagnoses – the moment we are living. And the moment is terrible, absolutely terrible. Carme Forcadell, Dolors Bassa, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Raül Romeva, yesterday they were absolutely unfairly engaged, while Marta Rovira communicated to us with a letter that went out of a prison that was inside; a prison, in this understanding of the feelings that all of us Catalonia, that mass people have been living for a long time. And as this happened, we didn't just see the company and company business of this Parliament, but we also saw how they were processed and processed by company and company of this Parliament, among them our esteemed Josep Nuet. I don't think that anyone – or at least a few, very few – doesn't see these moments without pain; I don't think anyone – or at least a few, very few – thinks that this is an absolute solution to the problem, that it doesn't make the problem terribly worse, that it doesn't work any more hurt in this country, that we already have a lot on the scales. All this in a judicial resolution, let's say, that he judges wills, that he judges ideas, that he does not judge facts. A judicial resolution that recognizes that "it is impossible to perceive the internal will of the defendants, and how it is impossible to perceive... – incredible, eh? –, "impossible perception of the internal will of the defendants, appeals to external elements to guess which is this internal will. And he says that these external elements can be the object of independence, "which is shared by a broad collective. There's no justice here, there's no justice, there's no justice. There is only one objective: to remove political and social leaders from public life; in a logical way: the logic of winners and losers, which is the logical worst that can be lived in democracy, which is the logical worst that can be lived to solve political problems. That's why, more than that, in order to achieve this objective, which is what creates the cause – the object pursued creates the cause and the judicial arguments –, it's a crime of rebellion, because it's the only one that can be disabled. And to justify the crime of rebellion is explained a rape that did not exist. And to try to explain this rape that didn't exist is said: "It's like the assumption of taking hostages by shooting into the air. Yes, of course, because that didn't happen. Because it wasn't that. And, therefore, from here, the search and effect is the objective of incapacitating political and social leaders. It is obvious, absolutely obvious, that this will end in international institutions. Actually, it's over. We have seen how the UN has said that the rights of political representation of a Member of this House have not been respected, that they are the rights of political representation of all the people of Catalonia, both of whom voted as those who did not. We have seen Amnesty International repeatedly say that Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart must leave the prison. That's enough, too – that's enough, too. But the answer that we need at these times, at times of transgression, and of rights and freedoms, that we have turned away from Catalonia and Espanya – and we have seen in the case of rappers, in the case of tutors, in the case of works of art that cannot be exposed, in the case of books that cannot be read, the books that cannot be read, the works of art that cannot be exposed – at these times we need an answer that must be as extensive as possible, as far as possible, to the impossible – to the impossible. There is a cause that goes far beyond the causes of each scandal, which is the cause of democracy and the cause of freedom. And it is this cause that must be applied to all of us, from a great generosity. The answer can only be, in this sense, an answer that asks everyone, absolutely everyone, that is not left to anyone, and that does not convert negatives into confrontation. Because, if we aspire to an answer that is extended, we need to ask everyone absolutely. And I also agree with what the representative of the Socialist Party said, Miquel Iceta: not looking at the past, looking at the future, not looking at the past, in an arc that for us, politically, should go from the CUP, as at least – and I say as at least – to the Socialist Party of Catalonia, in an arc that should go from the Cultural to the Workers' Committees. This democratic front for fighting rights and freedoms is the only way out of this situation. Because no one is led to deception: we can make a speech of victory, we can say that every time is closer to victory; this situation will be hard and long, and it will be necessary to establish struggles from the highest generosity, from the highest amplitude and from the highest intelligence. And we also need a political response. A fight that is only focused on repression is a fight that gets caught up in repression. We also need not just these broad alliances, broad alliances here and in Spain, but we need a political response. This Parliament, this Parliament struck, is now the only institution representing the Catalan and Catalan joints – the Catalan and Catalan joints – more than 155. It is the only expression we have of the will of the people of Catalonia, beyond the intervention of the Government of the People's Party in our lives. It's a parliament that has to represent Catalans and Catalans in their conjunction, believe what they believe, and aspirin what they're aspiring to, and have as the main eater right now form a government. This is the main food that this Parliament has right now: to form a government, a government that must allow us to get out of 155, a government that must make us stronger and stronger, and not weaker, a government that must allow us to get out of these three_months where we have been most vulnerable. There is a majority, there is a majority out of the ballot box, and there are various groups of this chamber representing this majority. A majority that has a responsibility, which is to form this government. And I place them, not as representing a parliamentary group, I place them as the city of Catalonia, as the city of Catalonia has the opportunity to speak here today: form this government. And if they can't, and if they can't form this government, for the reasons that it is – I don't want to enter it –, if you are not able to form this government, which is clearly said before this chamber, and at the conjunction of Catalonia. Not necessarily, but simply so that this chamber approaches if there are major alternatives to form broad and progressive cross-cutting proposals. Because, and I said it first, I think you have to form a government, I think you have responsibility for it. They won the elections; they say so, and that's right, and that's a responsibility. But I also think we're living a few hard moments, the darkest hours of our history. And at these hard times, the darkest hours of our history, what we can't afford, what I'm sure we can't afford is that Catalonia is defeated. Catalonia, the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans, in all their diversity, cannot be defeated. We must look to the future, but we must look to the future, but we must look to what we have experienced in vain, and less to what we are living with now, in these dark hours, and we need a new birth, a new birth of freedom, where the government of the people, for the people and for all the people impose themselves at once. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.14.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. Now it's the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed; it's the turn, for seven minutes and a half, of Mrs. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.15.0	Good morning. In the first place, we want to send a huge hug to Carmel, Josep, Dolors, Raül, Marta and Jordi, to their companies, to their friends, to the people who cherish them and who suffer. All our solidarity at these moments when we need more than ever to stand firm before the suspension of democracy. The repression has as its objective to demobilize the population and to take the focus of the political struggle and the objects that have a certain social movement, the republic movement. The whole country, like the Parliament, is under exception, under the doctrine of rock, under inquisitorial persecution, with a new exile and five new undertakings, and thirty-seven wounded us in the long list of shots against Catalan society. The synthesis is drastic and perverse. They impose on us judicially and extrajudicially, too, which they already know: that they are unable to win the ballot box, to win for democratic and peaceful lives. And that's why they say they're out of the picture, the state says they don't accept the results of some of the choices imposed on them. His project, his offer to this country is what he is: exiles, prisoners, fucking shots, abuse of power. And it must be very useless to believe that this will solve anything. Mrs. Arrimadas, do you know what most of this Parliament has to do? To defend his sovereignty, to defend the rights of all his representatives, those who are presented in a totally legal and correct way in these imposed elections. And, Mr. Iceta, of course everyone deserves to be heard. That's why we made a reference, that's why we made a reference in which there was the "yes" box and the "no" box. And I was delighted to see his brilliant speech leading the defense of "no, defending the unit of Spain; I was delighted. I've done it in a brilliant way, and today we won't find ourselves in the situation we find ourselves in. That is why today we are the responsibilities of all who trivialize, minimize or justify alien suffering, exile or imprisonment. You understand a miracle; you will see the disfigured face of dehumanization, the humiliating trail of all possible indecencies and the smoking remains of the right state. That Thomas Paine will come to you when he says: "Whoever wants to safeguard his freedom will have to protect all others from arbitrariness, or the previous one will turn against them. Prevarical larena between passadisos when speaking with another inquisitor, Manuel Marchena. God is believed to be among them who are the last wall of democracy's content. And no: they are the first ram of their demolition, because they confound state nationalism – "the unity of Spain – with democratic principles. In its inquisitorial logic, we witnessed yesterday a new episode of deliberate, structural and determined political violence in the dark, against a democratic and social majority that has always, always and irrevocably, chosen peaceful and active non-violent lives, and that the only crime that has been committed is to protect the rights of everyone. The only rape is institutional rape. The first: brutal violence on October 1, the use of physical violence against people by the Civil Guard and the National Police. On October 1st, 1,066 injured people were registered for the public health system. These people know that at least four hundred of them have filed a complaint in the criminal justice system. All of them were injured by the Spanish police, in the wake of the exercise of the right to self-determination. The police culture in the Spanish State has a lot of excesses in the use of force, of disproportionateity and of disrespect for the fact of the protest and its importance in a society that is supposed to be democratic. And of this exercise of institutional violence does not remain at the margin of the police, nor the Mossos d'Esquadra, sent for the Minister of Interior against an indignant people. The second: the prolongation of the state violence against the democratic claim of self-determination, the judicial violence that secretes lives, companies and hopes, telling the laws to what has never happened. But do they really think they're getting mixed up? Make sure they don't freak out. We gave it to you as always, dearly discovered and impoverished, from the school of civil disobedience, peaceful and non-violent, resist and unsubmissive. The submission has never led to relaxation, but to a greater severity. The bigger the chase and servility, the more the powerful have dared, the more they come together and the more they come together. No effort will be in vain and all efforts will fall. The greatest repression, the greatest generosity. If they attack us with the people, answer with the people. If they judge us with the country, it will take a response like that. They recognize in public what is always said in private: you will never be able to with this people, with the persevering, indefatigable and incorruptible conscience of freedom. We'd show you another shot, and the shots I was gonna take, until they put us out of our way. We continue to work on all fronts, with the republican forces, for a strategy that makes us move forward and not rush; with all democratic forces, for a broad front against repression and the return of rights to the Spanish of Philip VI. In the international arena, with alliance with all the peoples of the world, in which every week we have good news; the later, the resolution of the United Nations Human Rights Committee demanding that it respect Jordi Sánchez's political rights. And on the street, as we've always done, encouraging mobilization, which will never stop, so we'll fill the streets to clear the prisons. And although you have much to say, in your apparently strong – in your apparently strong –, the apparently strong of the State, we will always find your feverish. They won't pass! Look at the republic! Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.16.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. It's the turn, now, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. It's Mr. Quim Torra's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.17.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like my first words to be very grateful to the family members of whom they were hired yesterday. Thank you for being here, thank you for your courage, thank you for your strength. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] This is a speech I should never have spoken, I mean, I should never have been here, in this rostrum. A little less than forty-four hours ago, the candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat, Councillor Jordi Turull, was exhibiting his own investment program here. In the end, he went to his sister next to Councilman Josep Rull, who was waiting for him with a smile. After that, Deputy Marta Rovira and, in the same row, Councillor Raül Romeva and President Carme Forcadell applauded him, just as they did, a few hundred there, Councillor Dolors Bassa. They're all in jail today, except for Marta Rovira, who's in exile. Members of this Parliament, colleagues of all, companies and companies of ours deprived of liberty, deprived of their word, deprived of being able to continue representing the voters who chose them. And why? What happened? Why did this happen? What more monstrous crime must have eaten our companions because they were freed from the hope of judgment? So this monstrous crime is to have wanted to give the vision to the people of Catalonia because the citizens vote without and choose their future peacefully and democratically, the monstrous crime of voting and wanting that is always done peacefully. And just think for a moment, and after you scratch it, I think about it again and I scratch it again: it's not just the hardest measure you can take against a person, deprive him of freedom, it's an offense to the honor of politicians who have always served with pulcrity at their duty to serve the country. It is an intolerable fact in democracy and it is a direct attack on the sovereignty of this Parliament, which is the house of the word and the house of politics of all. Dear Counselor Turull, dear colleagues, dear Marta Rovira, President Puigdemont, Vice President Junqueras, friends, as we find you missing. Friends Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez, advisors Comín and Puig, advisors Ponsatí and Serret, companion Anna Gabriel, who I had the opportunity to embrace in Geneva a few days ago, we want you here. Better said, your constituents claim you here. And I also want to bring our solidarity to all the wounded that there was yesterday in the protest concentrations against this brutal injustice that was committed yesterday. They want us dumb, quiet, they want us scared, scared. At last – at last – they fly us to prison and exile. But the Spanish State has forgotten a small detail, it is a small detail: "I have taught a woman to serve the veil and now, how can I shut her up? The poet Anna Akhmatova wrote in translation by Maria Mercè Marçal and Monika Zgustová. And that's it, and that's exactly it. We'll talk later and they won't be able to shut us up anymore. No, we won't be quiet anymore, because there's enough. From then on, we'll talk to each other and talk without rest. And with us they will speak freely more than two million Catalans who today say the same: there is enough. The independence process has blown up the precarious balance of the Spanish Transition acrobats in a thousand horns. In fact, when democracy is barely a very fine girl, these things get used to happening. We find ourselves in front of a tense state, obsessed with the idea of destroying a democratic and peaceful political movement, of deceiving it. From the police to prosecutors, from the government to the monarchy, from the legislative power to the judiciary, through the mastodontic state staff and institutions: councils of ministers, state councils, constitutional courts, supreme courts, prosecution, police, CNI, etc. The operation's after them is a monster with drawings of heads and tentacles that is moving by the surface, few, and by the ground, the majority. Keyboards fall so full that they have ejected the building of the Spanish State, that it is smiling and falling apart, leaving so much accumulated indecency to be surmounted. Our candidate, Jordi Turull, said: "These last few months and weeks we have seen the most elementary human rights, imposing many exorbitant, retaliated and detained innocent citizens, attacked to defend schools, which are temples of citizenship, poor and civility. Because, indeed, we have come to a point that no longer gives the abst, whether a master or a mechanic, a deputy or a director, a humorist or a writer. More than nine hundred people in Catalonia, nine hundred, are being investigated or have been denounced for the monstrous crime of wanting to vote and decide their future. Ladies and gentlemen, enough; at these moments there was freedom, democracy and freedom of expression. We're playing it all with the country. So let's know Sepharad that Catalans can't be if we don't vote; that our gratitude for all of them, the ones who left their hair to get it, is infinite: the president, the government, the deputies who voted for it, the mayors, the courage of the Catalan assemblies that simply resulted from the mandate of the land, the public authorities and you will function as they did. And with them and for them, to the volunteers, to the Assembly and to the CoR and to all the civil society compromised, to all, thank you very much for everything you have done. Why can't Catalans decide our future? Why can't we debate whether it suits us or not it suits us independence? Why can't they vote for it? Why don't we, and the Scots and the Quebecers do? It is time we still have to listen to an argument to follow one more day to Spain, which is not that of por, fucking, legality or expulsion to the cosmos or deserts. Why do you think the unionism we need to follow in Spain? Why don't we talk about it? That I argued, that I wanted to convince us. For example: how can healthcare management improve? How can they secure pensions? How can you get the infrastructure that this country needs? Following Spain or having economic control over the resources that this country generates? The dialogue and the controversy with the Catalan society should be this: debate about the figures, the values, the ideas, the projects. Debate, debate, debate. Vote, vote and vote. Political fer. And, in change, they send us to prison and exile. We, who want the independence of Catalonia, only have ourselves and the strength of our arguments. The State, in change, opposes us the strength of force. And that's precisely why self-determination is also turning into self-protection, into self-defense for people. Why in the background of everything... why do we pull everything together? Why is this state's authoritarian pulse, the denial of the dialog, the recognition – the recognition – so alone, that there is another? Why is it fighting an idea to get its annihilation and decapitation? Since the death of the dictator, God's faith that few like the Catalans have helped to try to make it possible for a plural and respectful Spain with its peoples. My mother, if we have made efforts, years and decades! Keynes says that "the difficulty is not so much to develop new ideas, but to escape the veils, and in that judgment of the Constitutional Court against the State voted for the people of Catalonia in reference, the Catalans escaped from the old idea of continuing to feel a sudden people in an improper state. The possibility of independence then appeared as a movement of progress, illusion and collective hope. And he took strength until he occupied the same central and transversal space of the country. Thousands of associations and entities led what was already emerging as the most important democratic and peaceful change policy project in Western Europe. This is the key to remember: Catalonia's independence process is based on the momentum of the change force of the same city. A process of thousands of contributions and commitments of citizens, extraordinarily cross-cutting, both ideologically and socially. Let's recognize it and thank it, and preserve it. The independents we are in this Parliament are by the will of the people who have compelled us, they alone must obey. I repeat: the process leading to the independence of Catalonia has questioned the foundations of the monarchy restoration of 75 and the system has failed. The State has imploded to the search and capture of the one who liked to question the system itself. But now the king is gone and we know it. It is no longer possible to cover what has happened: the democratic Spanish regression, the authoritarianism of the State, the violation of our rights, as European citizens we are. No European city is supporting what Catalans are supporting right now. And we have seen, for example, preventing this chamber from investing up to three candidates; three candidates who were running on an electoral list, who were voted and chosen by the people, colleagues of all of you, followed, colleagues of all of you, for years, some. And now one is in exile and the other two in prison. These people won't be able to say hello for long enough. Do they remember the state of exception we live in? Do they realize it's impossible for us to go on like this a minute longer? Do you realize that we would never normalize this barbarity? And I am particularly referring to the parties of the Article 155 coalition: are they aware of the very serious situation they have caused? They really don't get it? Don't you worry about the terrible point of dehumanization that you're facing what you're going through? Or is it that they may want to allow not only this Parliament, but all Catalonia is a huge prison? Is that what you want? Why, what do you think you're doing with the more than two million Catalans who want independence? What do you want to condemn us to? You still don't want to sweat and talk? Don't you agree that all these citizens have said enough and don't want them to shut up? Can't you see they're no longer willing to endure more humiliations or less of them or of the deputies they've chosen? Madame Arrimadas, you've told us to respect everyone. Yesterday, while Marta Rovira was going to exile and six citizens obstruct the prison, Mr.Albert Rivera tweeted: "The last one to turn off the light. Is that the respect you ask of us? (Applause.) And let me tell you something: you and we are political opponents, it seems pretty obvious. You and we have an idea of Catalonia radically stretched out from each other, too – and so – is true. But there is a difference, there is an important difference: that we would be the first to denounce that you can never be persecuted for your ideas, to want to vote or to complete a democratic mandate, the first. [[Greetings.]] Look, I'm here a few days ago, I read Lluís Solà's book, Freedom and Sensed, an extraordinary book, from one of the country's scientists, but they recommend reading it, but they run to buy it, because, you know, how he carries the title of Freedom, so maybe he forbids us the week he sees. Therefore, read it. He says things like that, for example. He says: "If he has not set him free, he has not made him responsible. Always, at some point or other, practicing the exercise of freedom will encounter an important obstacle. If he didn't find it, you're not on the path to liberation. Neutrality – neutrality – in a system of rapes, is always an immorality, an abdication. The silence about which is unjust or inhuman is not sign of freedom, is the manifestation of claudication. So, that's good enough, quiet enough. Now we'll talk, and we won't stop talking. As the UN said yesterday – Xavier Domènech reminded us – it demanded that we respect the rights of our candidates, in particular Jordi Sánchez. An exceptional resolution, binding and immediate compliment. A demonstration of the gravity of the situation in Spain. But many more will come, as this UN resolution. And these political judgments that are being educated..., all the world will see that lies and falsehoods in which it was intended to build this general cause against independence..., it's grotesque – it's grotesque. And I'm done, President. I would like to speak about Councillor Jordi Turull, the second vote of the investiture of which remains pending. Today, in a normal situation, Jordi Turull would have the votes to be president, but he is in prison; in prison, a company of ours, in prison. I've been able to live with him these last few months, since he got out of prison until he got back in there. I have been able to enjoy, like my group partners, how many of you have been able to enjoy the length of these past years that he has made a deputy, his engineer, his dialectics, his ironic mood, his unlimited ability to work and to smoke one cigarette back to another – that too. But I've never heard him say either a toilet word or a hilarious gesture. It's fast, sharp, sharp. Some of his phrases are already part of the imaginary collection. I always remember: "Spain is not a straight state, it's a straight state. Counselor Turull is probably one of the best parliamentarians this chamber has ever had, and today he's in prison, to the shame of everyone. To the shame of this chamber, a deputy, a colleague of ours is in prison, like the rest of the prisoners. We've done it before, but I'd like to get to your family our admiration and all the strength, courage and solidarity of the world for an extraordinary husband and father. And to all of us, deputies and deputies: let us conjure ourselves to persist and win, because only if we persist and win in Jordi and the rest of political prisoners and exiles will again occupy the escons that, like us, are already exhilarating them. In the tweet sent yesterday evening, Councillor Turull said: "Please devote all your energies to peacefully defending the democracy and dignity of Catalonia. I have all confidence and hope in the people of Catalonia. He never failed, and now he won't either. Jordi, don't fail. We promise you, we won't fail. Thank you. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-22-0302.18.0	Thank you, Mr. Torra. The session's up.
