ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.1.0	Good morning to everyone, illustrious Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, the authorities accompanying us, ladies and gentlemen, continued to welcome the Parliament of Catalonia to this session of its Dozene Legislature. [[Constitution of the Plenary of the Parliament and election of the Bureau of the Parliament]] [[396-00001/12 and 398-00001/12]] As is required, according to Article 1 of the Regulation of the Chamber, this session is to begin with the reading of the Decree of summons, which is the Royal Decree 1/2018, of 9 gener, of summons of the constitutive session of the Parliament of Catalonia, published to the Butlletí Oficial de l'Etat number 9, of 10 gener, and to the Diari Oficial de la Generalitat de Catalunya, number 7532A, of 10 gener. This decree says: "The elections to the Catalan Parliament were held on the 21st of December and as the provincial election contestants have proclaimed the results of this electoral process. Having regard to Article 10d of Law 13/2008 of 5 November 2008 of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government. In accordance with the provisions of the second and third paragraphs of paragraph A of the Agreement of the Council of Ministers of 21 October 2017, published by means of the Order of President 1034/2017 of 27 October 2017, in the Official Butllet of the State number 260, of 27 October 2017, and in accordance with Article 3 of the Royal Decree 944/2017 of 27 October 2017, which designates organs and authorities entrusted with the task of giving compliments to the measures addressed to the Government and to the Administration of the Government of Catalonia, authorized by the consent of the Plenary of the Senate of 27 October 2017, for which the measures required by the Government are adopted, in accordance with Article 155 of the Constitution, decree: Article 1. To convene the Constitutive Session of the Parliament of Catalonia the deputies and elected deputies who have been proclaimed for the provincial electoral assemblies of Barcelona, Girona, Lleida and Tarragona, according to the result of the elections held on 21 December 2017. Article 2. The Constitutive Session will take place on the 17th of January, at 11 a.m., in the Palau del Parlament. Final disposition. This royal decree will enter into force on the same day as its official publication. Madrid, 9 gener of 2018. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament, in its Article 2, stipulate that the constituent session shall initially be chaired by the elected Member of Parliament from among the present, assisted by the two youngest Members as Secretaries. According to the data released to the Parliament of Catalonia, it is known that the Honourable Mr Ernest Maragall and Mira, born on the 5th generation of 1943, is the oldest member of the present and corresponds to him to preside over the session. It will count on the collaboration of the two youngest Members, Mr Rut Ribas and Mr Martí, who were born on 13 September 1990, and Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral and Mr Fuster, who was born on 17 October 1989, who already attended the Board of Education at the beginning of the previous parliamentary term. If any of the elected proclamations consider you a better right, they will have to warn you now. Otherwise, the Parliament expects and the Rules of Procedure to form the Edat Bureau to open the constituent session of the Parliament in its dotzenth legislative term. [[Pause.]] I therefore call upon them to occupy their places in the presidency. Meanwhile, as Secretary General of the Parliament of Catalonia, I would like to wish all and all the best certainty in the exercise of the representative function and of serving the people and the country that the people of Catalonia have entrusted to them. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.2.0	Very good morning to everyone. Once the Constitutive Session began with the reading of the summons decree by the Secretary-General, as Chairman of the Edat Bureau, and in accordance with Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I declare this session to be open. Members and deputies, accompanying authorities, assistants, parliamentary and media workers covering this session, thank you very much, I wish you all a very good day. I should start this session today, too, good morning...., I must say good morning, President Benach, President Rigol, President Carme Forcadell, eh? And thank you for being here, for honoring this session. But I should also say, "Good morning, President of the Generality, good morning advisers to the Government of the Generality. But you see: neither the President of the Generalitat nor the members of his Government are in the place that would be close to them, eh? Some prisoners, the others in exile, she's still dismissed. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I hope that I will forgive myself, therefore, if before I continue with the election procedure of the members of the Bureau I express some of the feelings that, unstoppable, fill the head. Days will come to act, to think, all of us, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, with dedication and responsibility in our condition of representatives of the seven and a half million Catalans and Catalans. What I feel today, in change, comes more from the color than from the head, more from the vivid experience than from the calm reflection. And what I feel is, for a band, an accumulation of indignation at the aggressions that we live every day, but also, I assure you, a growing sum of reason and reason, of firm convictions about the present and future of our country, of this Catalonia that is not yielding, that is not resigning, that wants to follow what it is, that has always been, in order to build the new country, free, just and worthy that we want to be. Look, I'm not supposed to be here today. Without these imposed choices from the State, under Article 155 of the Constitution, I would not be here. I could still feel a politically compromised city, yes, but more spectator than actor, more attending demonstrations or debates than not representing these protesters or citizens. Let us make it clear, who should be here today are precisely those who are not there: President Puigdemont, Vice President Oriol Junqueras, the advisers Joaquim Forn, Lluís Puig, Clara Ponsatí, Toni Comín, els..., Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez, who could accompany us from the camp, certainly, and we should be making another debate, that we should not be doing this, we should be having a debate, let us say, this yes, ordinary. And what should this debate be? Not what we are obliged to do today, on whom you have right and who does not have right, on the conditions of our representatives and their situations and their individual rights as citizens and as representatives of the citizens. We should be having, I think, a debate on the dialog table to be opened between all of us and the representation of the State; a dialog table to assess the situation arising from '1 October and to arbitrate, as agreed, the lives for the democratic verification of the Catalan and Catalan will. That would be acceptable normality, huh? , which we..., a normality that we do not renounce or renounce; a normality that arises from the mutual respect and recognition of our condition of society with right to exist for itself, of political subjection equipped to govern itself, to express collectible projects, to draw and build the future. Today is, indeed, a day to look forward, to begin a new stage, but it is also a day to remember where we come from, to hear why we are here today. Mirin, it is the first time, in all legislatures, since the so-called democratic transition, that the plethora of constitution of a legislature is celebrated with the bank of the empty government. As I recalled in Gerard Gómez del Moral – it's good to know and remember – President Tarradellas presided over the session of the constitution of the first Parliament on April 10, 1980. He presided over her from here, initially, and then attended the whole session, as he also attended the investiture session. And President Tarradellas, that day, like all the years he was president of the Generality in exile, represented the legitimacy and historical continuity of the Catalan institutions. It was an institution that linked directly with the Republican Generality, which was collapsed and dissolved in 1939, in the same way that, rebutted by Josep Irla, the presidency of Tarradellas was the institutional continuity of the presidency of Lluís Companys, plunged into Montjuic in 1940 for the Franco dictatorship. Let me say that I also have the powerful image of that September 30, 2005, when that very Parliament, with a government under the presidency of Pasqual Maragall, voted, liked to vote for a statutory text, a new proposal which, quite explicitly, represented a further extension to the Spanish State. They sought, at that time, an agreement with depth with the State, an agreement based on loyalty and mutual respect, but which gave genuine, also federal, response to Catalan aspiration. We wanted – which naivety, we would say today – to replace the agreements between the elites and the permanent market for a fund, for an entity that gave satisfaction to Catalonia at the same time as it allowed the formation of a Spanish reconciled with itself, respectful and convinced of the richness resulting from the diversity of peoples and nations with which to share the future. But that extended hand, we all know, was, a little more, rejected. The Spanish State, it seems, does not know or want to know anything about reconciliation or shared sobrieties. The power is possessed and no brio is formed to anyone, less yet to Catalonia. The Spanish State, it seems, does not know how to win, can defeat; does not know how to share, can impose, humiliate and punish. In 2010 the Catalan society reacted by necessity, by means of survival, in the face of the evidence that the Spanish State had decided to complete a summer project that included the definitive assimilation of Catalonia as a differentiated economic and social policy reality. The collective action of a very significant part of this Catalan society has been tremendous at the length of these years and has become the most significant European democratic experience of the last decades. This is what the State now seems to be refusing to admit, understand, or accept. October 1 was the confirmation, the culmination of this period. It will be remembered – I assure you – as the day when the citizenry mastered its destiny. Today, as much as the Constitutional Court annuls the commission created to delimit and delimit the responsibilities of what happened that day, it will not be able to remove it from our collective memory. Perhaps that's why the State now dispenses with any formula based on dialog and respect. It does not matter, it seems, "that the commitment is noticed, it does not matter. We'll keep going. We don't have any later. We know our strengths well and measure those of the State better. We know what we can expect from Europe and what we cannot expect from its great states, but we are Europe and are an active part of European regeneration. The vote of 21 December – and I ended – is the confirmation of '1 October [[applause]] , it is also..., the vote of 21 December is also a good map of today's Catalan society, diverse, complex, a society that this Parliament will need to be able to express, with the utmost respect, to everyone and every person, with the essential sensitivity and proximity. We will not abandon the democratic path. We assume the opposite of living and direct with the Catalan citizenry on the path of a project for all Catalans and Catalans, a project that, if it were against or without the citizens, would lose all meaning – without all of them– ; a project that we many call republic, but that could also be said freedom, justice, fairness and progress. With Jordi Sànchez we have coincided quite often in acts and in various opportunities sharing some verses of the canton of the sign that serve also as a definition of the country and of the moment; they are very brief, they say: « Give your voice/light to the eyes and strength to the arm; it is to say, give the voice and the vote to the people, give intelligence to which they must make decisions, to the institutions, to the Government and to the Parliament, and give resistance, firm, tenacity to the capture of the collection of Catalan citizenship, the resistance and the intelligence that will be needed to gain the freedom of Oriol Junqueras, Joaquin Forn, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sànchez, and to accelerate the return of Carlesa Puigdemont, Puigdemont, Merez. This country will always be ours. Thank you very much. I visca Catalunya. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] All right. Thank you. In accordance with Article 2.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall now proceed to the reading of the report of the elected Members. And I pray to the Secretary of the Education Bureau, Mrs Rut Ribas, that I begin reading the relationship of elected members for the Barcelona constituency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.3.0	Good morning, everybody. « The Provincial Electoral Board, in its session held on 28 September 2017 and 11 January 2018, in agreement with the election results, has proclaimed elected deputies for the Barcelona constituency the following: Party of the Socialists of Catalonia: Miquel Iceta Llorens, Eva Granados Galiano, Ramon Espadaler Partners, Beatriz Silva Gallardo, Ferran Pedret i Santos, Alicia Romero Llano, Jordi Terrades Santacreu, Assumpta Escarp Gibert, David Pérez Ibáñez, Esther Niubó Cidoncha, Pol Gibert Horcas, Marta Moreta i Rovira, Raúl Moreno Montaña. Popular Party - Popular Party : Xavier García Albiol, Andrea Levy Soler, Santiago Rodríguez i Serra. Ciutadans - Partido de la Citizenía : Inés Arrimadas García, Carlos Carrizosa Torres, José María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa, Fernando Tomás de Páramo Gómez, Sonia Sierra Infante, Ignacio Martín Blanco, Joan García González, Marina Bravo Sobrino, David Mejía Ayra, Noemí de la Calle Sifré, Antonio Espinosa Cerrato, Susana Beltrán García, Laura Vilchez Sánchez, María Luz Guilarte Sánchez, Martín Eusebio Barra López, Blanca Victoria Navarro Pacheco, José María Cano Navarro, Sergio Sanz Jiménez, Carmen de Rivera Pla, Elisabeth Valencia Mimbrero, María Francisca Valle Fuentes, Munia Fernández-Jordán Celorio, Dimas Gragera Velaz, Manuel Rodríguez de l'Hotellerie de Fallois. Left Republican of Catalonia - Catalunya Yes : Oriol Junqueras i Vies, Marta Rovira i Vergés, Raül Romeva i Rueda, Carme Forcadell i Lluís, Alba Vergés i Bosch, Antoni Comín i Oliveres, Jenn Díaz i Ruiz, Ruben Wagensberg i Ramon, Najat Driouch Ben Moussa, Josep Maria Jové i Lladó, Eva Baró i Ramos, Ernest Maragall i Mira, Rut Ribas i Martí, Antoni Castellà i Clavé, Adriana Delgado i Herreros, Jordi Albert i Caballero, Mònica Palacín i Paris, Gerard Gómez del Moral i Fuster. Popular Unity Candidate: Carles Riera Albert, Maria Sirvent Escrig, Vidal Aragonese Chicharro. Catalonia in Comú - May: Xavier Domènech Sampere, Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez, Jessica Albiach Satorres, Marta Ribas Frias, Joan Josep Nuet Pujals, Susana Segovia Sánchez, David Cid Colomer. Together for Catalonia: Carles Puigdemont i Casamajó, Jordi Sànchez i Picanyol, Clara Ponsatí i Obiols, Jordi Turull i Negre, Laura Borràs i Castanyer, Josep Rull i Andreu, Joaquim Forn i Chiariello, Eduard Pujol i Bonell, Aurora Madaula i Giménez, Elsa Artadi i Vila, Joaquim Torra i Pla, Lluís Font i Espinos, Josep Riera i Font, Anna Tarrés i Campà, Maria Isabel Ferrer i Àlvarez, Francesc de Dalmases i Thió, Josep Costa i Rosselló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.4.0	All right. Thank you very much. I now pray to the Secretary of the Edat Bureau, Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, who continues reading the relationship of elected deputies and deputies for the Circumscriptions of Girona, Lleida and Tarragona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.5.0	Thank you. « For the Circumscription of Girona, the Provincial Electoral Board, in its session held on 27 September 2017, according to the election results has proclaimed elected deputies for the Circumscription of Girona the following lords and lords: Party of the Socialists of Catalonia - PSC-PSOE : Rafel Bruguera Batalla. Left Republican - Catalunya Yes: Low Pain and Coll, Roger Torrent and Ramío, Anna Caula and Paretas, Sergi Sabria and Benito. Ciutadans- Party of Citizenship : Jean Marie Castel Sucarrat, Alfonso Sánchez Fisac, Héctor Amello Montiu, María del Camino Fernández Riol. Candidacy for Popular Unity: Nattalia Sánchez Dipp. Junts per Catalunya : Gemma Geis Carreras, Lluís Puig Gordi, Marta Maderas Mir, Narcís Clara Lloret, Lluís Guinó Subirós, Jordi Munell García, Francesc Xavier Ten Costa. For the constituency of Lleida, the Provincial Electoral Board, in its session held on 24 September 2017, according to the election results, has proclaimed elected deputies for the constituency of Lleida the following lords and lords: Party of the Socialists of Catalonia - PSC-PSOE : Óscar Ordeig Molist. Ciutadans- Party of Citizenship: Jorge Soler González, Javier Rivas Escamilla, David Bertran Román. Republican Left - Catalonia Yes : Meritxell Serret i Aleu, Bernat Sole i Barril, Gemma Espigares i Tribó, Francesc Viaplana i Manresa, Montserrat Fornells i Sole. Together for Catalonia: Josep Maria Forné i Febrer, Marc Solsona Aixalà, Immaculate Gallardo Barceló, Xavier Quinquillà Durich, Montserrat Macià Gou, Anna Geli España. For the Circumscription of Tarragona, the Provincial Electoral Board, in its session held on 25 December 2017, according to the election results, has proclaimed elected deputies for the Circumscription of Tarragona the following lords and lords: Ciutadans- Party of Citizenship: Matías Alonso Ruiz, Lorena Roldán Suárez, Carlos Sánchez Martín, Francisco Javier Domínguez Serrano, Maialen Fernández Cabezas. Esquerra Republicana - Catalunya Yes : Óscar Peris i Ródenas, Noemi Llauradó i Sans, Josep Lluís Salvadó i Tenesa, Irene Fornós i Shorto, Ferran Civit i Martí. Juntes per Catalunya : Eusebi Campdepadrós i Pucurull, Teresa Pallarès Piqué, Albert Batet Canadell, Mònica Sales de la Cruz. Party of the Socialists of Catalonia - PSC-PSOE : Rosa María Ibarra Ollé, Carles Castillo Rosique. Catalonia in Comú - Podemos: Yolanda López Fernández. Popular Party - Popular Party : Alejandro Fernández Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.6.0	All right. This presidency, which has been escorted by the reading of all elected Members, shows that all Members of Parliament have effectively complied with the requirements laid down in Article 23 of the Rules of Procedure for access to the full exercise of the condition of Member. We shall continue to elect the members of the Bureau of Parliament, and, in accordance with Rule 43.2 of this Rules, the votes for the election of these officers are fan, as you know, by means of papers that will have to be delivered to this Bureau so that they are placed in the ballot box prepared for this purpose. The first election to be made by the President of Parliament, according to Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure, and in order to make this election each Member has to write a name to the Paperette, and is elected who obtained the absolute majority. They shall consider null and void unreadable papers containing a name higher than the requirement or names relating to persons who are not members of the Parliament. Papers without written indication will consider blank votes. I remind the House that the members of the Bureau would vote at the end. Before proceeding to the vote, I am sure that the deputy Oriol Junqueras has delegated his vote to Ms Marta Rovira, deputy of the electoral list of Esquerra Republicana and Catalonia Yes, and that the deputies Joaquim Forn and Jordi Sánchez have delegated their vote to Mr Jordi Turull, of the electoral list Junts for Catalonia. For this parliamentary session, the Bureau of Education admits the voting delegations formulated in order to consider that there is a competition for the cause of incapacity perlled to what is referred to in Rule 93.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, and also to the fundamental democratic principle the exercise of the right of political participation of elected Members. So, once you listen to the interventions, this table confirms the decision to... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, he did. Ask for the word, Mrs. Rimadas?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.7.0	Yes, Mr President; on a point of order. [[Pause.]] Yeah. As the Rules of Procedure set out very clearly in Rule 93, what are the reasons for delegating the vote, and we also have a report from the Members of Parliament which does not support the delegation of vote which you have just informed us that the Bureau of Age has adopted, I would ask you, please, to reconsider this decision. I believe that the Parliament of Catalonia has to be at the service of all Catalans and it seems to me that you can't start off with a bad foot, you can't start by jumping at us the Rules of Parliament. I would like to recall that the three causes of Article 93 for the delegation of the vote are very clear: the first is to have a maternity or paternity leave; the second is to have a serious illness, or the third is an incapacity. I would urge you, having regard to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure and having regard to the reports of the lawyer, to reconsider this decision, Mr President of the Bureau of Age of Parliament. I believe that this plenary session, sincerely, has begun with a bad foot, because I believe that we have started by attending a meeting in Esquerra which does not correspond to a session of constitution of the Parliament, and I wanted to remind you that if you hold this honorable office, even if it is only for one day, it is because you are the oldest Member of Parliament, and I do not think that you can do a meeting in Esquerra, which I would like to remind you that you are the third parliamentary force in the Parliament of Catalonia. So please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.8.0	Very well; thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.9.0	...consider this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.10.0	All right. This presidency recalls that the Editorial Board has assigned the functions of ordering and directing this constitutive session. Is there another word asked, sir...? [[Pause.]] Also for a minute, if that sounds good to you, sir... Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.11.0	Rodriguez, Mr. Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.12.0	Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.13.0	Yes, in relation to... – it is a point of order – also in relation to the decision that the Board has just taken, in relation to the petition for delegated votes, to make it clear that on the part of our group we disagree with the interpretation made by the Board of Education of what the Rules say in their rule 93.2. We understand that this decision has just taken the Bureau to assume de facto an expansion of the voting delegation assumptions, which we believe does not correspond to an age_table. And, therefore, we expressed from this position the discrepancy of the Members of the People's Party with regard to this decision adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.14.0	Thank you, thank you very much. Is there any other doorman you're gonna ask for...? [[Miquel Iceta and Llorens ask to speak.]] Mr. Iceta? [[Pause.]] Also with the same length, if it can be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.15.0	Yes, very briefly; for, in this case, to agree with the decision of the Edat Bureau, which I believe is the best possible interpretation of both the interlocutory of the judge and the report of the press of the chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.16.0	Thank you. Is there any other intervention? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Just to make them guess, therefore, that... that this Study Table has the functions of ordering and directing this constitutive session, as well as, if scale, resolving the incidents referred to in this session, respect of which the Rules do not provide for the possibility, as you know, to ask for reconsideration. So this Bureau confirms the decision to accept the requests of the voting delegations made, so that I call on the secretariat, Mrs Ribas, to initiate the voting procedure with the call of the Members and Members, on this occasion, in alphabetical order, eh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We need the urn. I suppose we've got her right here... And we can start the vote immediately. Thank you. [[Pause.]] Som-hi; forward, Mrs Ribas. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, I'm sorry... we're asking for silence, because everyone can listen to his name and speed up the... in other words, speed up the vote. Thank you. [[According to Rule 99.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The members of the Editorial Board are screened at the end.]] All right, then. Once the vote has been completed, we shall now proceed to the vote. We can, therefore, organize the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's go with the names in high view, each paper, and so we can go and make, all folds, the manual recount. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] It seems that the accounts that have been made from the services and from the same Bureau coincide. The result is: Mr Roger Torrent, 65 votes; Mr José María Espejo-Saavedra, 56 votes; in white, 9 votes, and no vote, which I congratulate myself on. In any case, as long as the absolute majority of members of this chamber have not sunk, a single vote must be taken, as you know. So we're going to start the call again in alphabetical order of the Members of Parliament. Let's go back to the urn, look at this. This has to be guarded, doesn't it? By all means? It's got to be guarded, and it's got to be guarded, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, then. We proceed to the second vote. Begins Mrs. Ribas. [[Pause.]] As the Rules provide, it is obviously a vote between the two candidates with a greater number of votes in this case. There are only two candidates with assigned votes, so... the vote is repeated between these two names, between these two candidates. Forward, Mrs. Ribas. [[According to Rule 99.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The members of the Editorial Board are screened at the end.]] All right, then. Once this second vote is complete, we will proceed to the polls, as quickly as we can. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] All right. The recount, coinciding, gives other copies of the same names as the previous one: Mr. Roger Torrent, 65 votes; Mr. José María Espejo, 56; in blanc, 9. It is, therefore, proclaimed Mr Roger Torrent and Ramio as President of the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] We shall therefore proceed with the vote on the election of the two Vice-Presidents. As you know, and in accordance with Rule 44.2 of the Rules of Procedure, each Member has to write a name to the paper and the elected ones who, by order, obtain a majority of votes. I would therefore ask Mrs Ribas to begin the call of the Members in alphabetical order. Forward. [[According to Rule 99.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The members of the Editorial Board are screened at the end.]] All right. After this vote for the election of Vice-Presidents, we shall proceed once again to the polls. Forward. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] All right, then, let's go to the countdown. The names of the respective candidates are: 65 votes for Mr Josep Costa and Rossello; 57 votes for Mr José María Espejo-Saavedra, and 8 votes in white. In this way, Mr. Josep Costa and Mr. Rosselló, and Mr. José María Espejo-Saavedra, were proclaimed vice-president first. [[Long and long applause.]] Well, we can proceed, therefore, with the – in principle – last vote of the day: the vote to elect the four secretaries of the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia. And, according to Rule 44.3 of the Rules, for the election of secretaries, a name must also be written to the paper, and they are elected by order of the four votes they get more. I therefore ask Mrs Rut Ribas to start again with the call of the Members in alphabetical order. Forward. [[According to Rule 99.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally criticized for being alphabetical because they vaginate at the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The members of the Editorial Board are screened at the end.]] All right. Having completed this last vote, we shall proceed to the vote. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] All right. Proceed, then, the countdown..., do you understand? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It seems to me that the results of the three recounts coincide. We have, therefore, by order of votes: Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós, with 41 votes; Mr David Pérez, second place, with 30; Mr Joan García, with 27, and Mr Alba Vergés, with 24 votes. They are, therefore, proclaimed as the first secretary Mr. Eusebi Campdepadrós ; as the second secretary Mr. David Pérez ; as the third secretary Mr. Joan García, and, as the fourth secretary, Mrs. Alba Vergés. That's it. Voting's over here. [[Perlongats applause.]] Here ends our task and grace patience and attention, on behalf of these authentic and future great citizens of Catalonia, present and future, Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral and Mrs Rut Ribas, of Sant Sadurní, of Barcelona, as I, in short, of Catalonia. Many thanks to all of them and to all of you. [[Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez asks for the word.]] I'm sorry, there's a demand for order... say, say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.17.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] We wanted to state, in any case, first of all, that on April 10, 1980, seven women sat in this chamber. I'd like to remember what it means for seven women to sit in a hemicicle surrounded by men. Our disappointment, because this table does not represent the plurality of our country, and I think that everyone would have to race us a little bit to think that this table does not reflect the plurality of this Parliament. We are the Parliament with more women in history and, unfortunately, this table will not reflect this. First of all, this disappointment, but second of all, is that this also incompletes the Law of Equality, in its Article 12, which contemplates that the collegiate organs of public administrations must contemplate their parity. Therefore, I believe that when we open the door to reform the Rules we should also think, when reform, that reform is actually also to advance the country, too, in this matter. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.18.0	All right. That's what I'm saying. I invite Mr. Roger Torrent, Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Josep Costa and Mr. José Maria Espejo, Vice-Presidents, and Mr. Eusebi Campdepadrós, Mr. David Pérez, Mr. Joan García and Mr. Alba Vergés, to occupy their seats at this table. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Members of Parliament's Bureau occupy other places.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-01-17-0101.19.0	Many honourable Speakers of Parliament, Rigol, Benach, President De Gispert and President Forcadell, Members, Members of Parliament, Authorities, Lords and Lords, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude to the Members who voted for me, and, therefore, who have given me confidence, and, to whom they have not, to tell them that I will try to gain this confidence during my term of office. I have a firm commitment to work for all Members of the House, as I do for my job. Some people today have noticed my young man – they already know that this is a circumstantial issue – say that I am the youngest president. If I may, from the anecdote I would like to make a category: I would only like the fact that I was young was atzaros; I would like to think, in change, that it is about a symptom; a symptom of a natural and necessary relay in the spaces of decision and political responsibility. The country is also moving forward in this sense, it has to do so. Acceding to the presidency of the Parliament of Catalonia is an immense honour and it is also, of course, a great responsibility. For the functions, because it is the second authority of the country, and because this institution represents politically the people of Catalonia. But surely, in this legislature, at these times, responsibility is even greater for the complex and anomalous context we face. I want to remember the blanks. I would like to remind you that three Members of this House are currently in pre-trial detention. Oriol Junqueras and Joaquim Forn have been there for seventy-six days; Jordi Sànchez in the front door, together with the president of Ómnium, Jordi Cuixart. A preventive prison which, in the opinion of a large number of lawyers and right-wing experts, is absolutely unjustified and which prevents them from being able to exercise their political rights fully, freely; not only their own, but also those to whom they represent, that is, their voters. And it must also be remembered that five other deputies – deputy Comín, Ponsati, Puig and Serret and the same president Puigdemont – are found in Brussels, warned of the same deal if they return to the country. It would not be honest on my part, and above all it would not be responsible for what we seek to represent and protect, if you do not denounce this situation thoroughly, if you do not denounce the blanks. In this chamber there are one hundred and thirty-five voices, and I have to defend the right of expression of all, completely all. Of those who are here today, but especially of those who cannot be. This is the context in which we face this legislature, with this situation. But we are also dealing with the Spanish Government's Ministry of Heritage, which has been involved in the finances of the Spanish Government for some time now. And the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution is also in force, by means of which the Spanish Government dissolved this chamber, limited its functions, ceased the Government of the Generality and kept the Administration intervened. Before this unprecedented, unprecedented, democratic scene, the first step is to put the intervention of our institutions immediately. It is necessary to recover the institutional normality necessary to be at the service of the country and to respond effectively to the demands and the will of the citizenry. They correspond to the groups, they correspond to you fix the agenda and the political direction of your own years, but on which they depend on me, in which they rely on this presidency, I will work tirelessly so that this legislature will return to the centre of everything. Let us all conjure ourselves, conjure ourselves to recover the institutions of the country and reposition them to the service of the citizenry as soon as possible, conjure ourselves to recover the institutions and place them in the hands of the citizenry. In fact, with this plenary of the legislature, with the vote that we have just carried out, we have regained the country's essential political institution, the crux of our sovereignty, the one in charge of carrying out the democratic mandates of our people. We must always bear in mind that the ballot boxes are our origin, they are the maximum expression of what we represent. And anything that doesn't involve respecting his voice, respecting its outcome, is appreciable in terms of democratic integrity. It is our responsibility to restore, strengthen and preserve the sovereignty of Parliament, not only because of a historical obligation, of continuity and of the will to be like the people, but to guarantee and strengthen the civil and social rights of our country. At a time when many countries around us are experiencing a regression in social rights, we here have an obligation to defend those who suffer the most, those who are always suffering from crises, and those who suffer the most from the consequences of an economic system that generates inequalities. That's my wish, too. Let this chamber be an ally of all these people, let our work be useful in this sense. We believe that social progress is also an irrevocable objective of this Parliament. For this reason I propose to work without rest to help fully restore the joint of our institutions, to work tirelessly to fully restore the joint of our institutions. I'll do it humbly, from my previous experience as a deputy in this chamber and as a mayor. And I take advantage of this fact to claim the task of the municipal world, the commitment of hundreds and hundreds of mayors and thousands of governors who honestly, with effort, day by day, from their people or from their city, help to build a better country as well. Because working in the municipal world means managing conflicts, working rapeseed with the citizenry, working agreements with those who don't always think like you, but with those we have to hear. And it is with this spirit, with this same spirit, that I plan to exercise the responsibility that has now been attached to me. It is with this same spirit that I want to contribute to the search for the entity and the dialect in Catalan political life, which you obviously have in this chamber and must have a central space. In my personal and political trajectory I have always sought to extend my hand to everyone, without exception. In undertaking now to follow in this line, to follow fent-ho. You ask them, yes, collaboration, collaboration with all of you and free will to help in the good government of this institution. But at the same time I allow myself to demand one thing: to demand respect for them; to respect the institution, to respect all the members and deputies and to respect, in the end, for the votes of the people, to respect for the popular will. Many of you have known me as a deputy and know what I think. This, in fact, is my personal and political heritage, which I never intend to give up, in any case. But beyond political, personal convictions, there are principles; beyond conviction there are principles. And in this sense I personally want to make democracy and coexistence the foundational pillars of my mandate, these basic principles. I want to contribute to sewing, to sewing Catalan society through these two principles, these two foundations. In fact, we are a society of creedal identities: identities of origin, of genera, of class, of ideology, of creeds and convictions, of multiple identities. Given this plurality, which is a richness in itself, cohesion must be built on the common elements that guarantee coexistence: democratic principles, absolute respect for rights and fundamental freedoms, social justice and, ultimately, the essence of what we understand as republicanism. The successive Presidencies of the Parliament of Catalonia, as well as the different and logical ideological accents, have always maintained a clear line of institutional continuity around compromise and determination in the defence of the institution, as well as public rights and freedoms. And in this sense I want to please and make myself debtor of this line of continuity, but above all I want to please in particular President Forcadell's pocket. As she has repeatedly defended from here where I sit, but also in Parliament, it must be possible to talk about everything, Parliament must be able to talk about what Members and Members are talking about. Why, if not, what's a parliament for, if it's not precisely to give a view to all Members of Parliament and, therefore, to all those to whom they represent? In fact, when a debate is lived in society, when it is present among the citizens, when it forms part of the longings and desires of a majority, it is essential that this debate may have a head in this chamber. Those of us who believe in democracy, those who participate in their institutions, we must never hold for it, we must never hold for democracy, and we must never give up the debate and the word. We Members and Members must be able to bring the country's views here to Parliament, which are many and diverse. And, as Muriel Casals said, our task is to share, contrast different visions and find, in the end, spaces of confluence. This is a very plural country, and so it is reflected in this Parliament, a parliament that has been legitimized by a 79_per_cent turnout. In response to this plurality, President Forcadell made a significant gesture in opening the Bureau meetings to representatives of parties that are not part of it. I now announce that I want to continue this measure, because we all represent a part of the country and I want all of us to feel part of this Parliament, that it is all of us and all of us Catalans. It's a parliament with history, and that adds another to the responsibility of the fleet. I am preceded, for example, by names such as Josep Irla, until today the only President of Parliament. I feel indebted to him, to his capacity for persistence and to his loyalty to the country. And, therefore, we would try, from this presidency, to complete with the arrival that President Irla left us. For another band, I am already more recently in the ranks of two women: President De Gispert and President Forcadell, who have represented this institution with great dignity and commitment. In fact, because effective equality is still a pending challenge of our society, also of our institutions, and personally I feel compromised with feminist struggle, because the challenge of equality demands the involvement of all of us, and also of all, and especially of men, a challenge for the one hundred and thirty-five deputies and deputies of this chamber. We don't want to start any more full regretting the murder of a woman, regretting a male-based crime of rape. Like the country – and this is our challenge – we can't afford to have one more case or one more murdered woman. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, we have a lot of challenges, we have a lot of work and, obviously, a great responsibility. Citizenship has placed its trust in all of us; we can't let them down. This Parliament's women a space where the dialog and the entity help us build a better society. Deia Stefan Zweig, of whom I declare myself a fervent follower, that our world has space for many truths, and not only for one; and simply, if the Volguessian men, they could live with the others. We all have a common purpose: to represent our voters as best as possible, to bring their views here to Parliament, their requests, their longings, so as to build a better, fairer and freer country. That every one does so from his or her positions, that every one defends his or her political projects; all, of course, have a head. But they ask them that they are always doing while maintaining respect for others. Deputies and deputies of all of us must not fail in the confidence of our fellow citizens. To our hands is to refer and recover the protagonistship of our institutions, a protagonistship that is based on the ability to transform and advance the country. I place them in place to put us in the service of the citizenry and to make the debates and agreements in this Parliament allow us to know the truth of hope in a country that always, always, always persists and always ends up coming out. Despite all the obstacles, despite all the difficulties, this country always persists and fails. Aim for democracy and visca Catalunya! [[Perlongats applause.]] I invite you to cloure this constitutive session of the Dotzena Legislature, with the national anthem of Catalonia. [[The chamber, dempeus, sings Els Segadors. Crits of: «Visca Catalunya free! Strong applause and perlongats.]] Get up... [[Crits of "Freedom!]] The session's up.
