ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.1.0	Well, let's resume the session. [[Discussion on the general political orientation of the Government (continuation)]] [[255-00003/12]] We now proceed to the statements of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, for a maximum of thirty minutes each, and fifteen minutes for each parliamentary subgroup. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.2.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Torra, today we are dealing with one of the main debates that can be held in a parliamentary chamber, a general policy debate. I believe that the least that can be done is to address these very important debates, in which a review is made of the political, social and economic situation in Catalonia, only from reality and realism. From the everyday reality of Catalan society. You can't do..., what you can't do is what Mr. Torra did yesterday, which is to focus this general policy debate as if it were another of your process monologues, another of your monologues inside the bubble and this fiction that you have invented. And let's see today, let's try to review, at this time we have, some of the realities of Catalonia that you, repeatedly, obvious in your manifestations, right? You once again proposed yesterday the fiction that the process is something positive, it's something good, it's something festive. And the reality of Catalans is that there hasn't been a single benefit of the process to Catalan society, not one – not one. We have an unprecedented social and institutional crisis in Catalonia. You have attacked the institutions of Catalonia as it had not been done in the nearly forty years of democracy. You have closed plenary sessions of Parliament in order not to give a face, because you did not agree between yourselves to see how to vote. You have created parallel structures, to delegitimize this Parliament, with a council of the republic, that supposed government that does not have to come here to the chamber to give answers; a supposed legitimate president; an assembly of elected..., well, a lot of chiringuitos that we will now see, but that, in the background, what you do is to attack the legitimacy of this Parliament. This is what you are doing, not to mention the ignominy of September 6 and 7, or the attempted attack, violent assault, physical assault, to this chamber, which starred in your commands last Monday. The reality of the process is that you do not have a single international support, neither one, nor a single country, nor a single European institution has given you its support, but you have indeed seriously affected the image of Catalonia abroad. The reality is that, in this process, there have been violent acts on the part of the commands that you are jealous of, and those that you ask to tighten, because it seems to you that you are as softing, right? As we told you yesterday. The reality of this process is that it is affecting the Catalan economy, it is a reality, Mr Torra. Investments in Catalonia have collapsed in 64_per_cent in the first two quarters of 2018. The European investment coming to Catalonia is the lowest – last year – in the last six years. And we're on. I know there's one thing you won't care about, which is called ‘tourists coming from the rest of Spain'. I know that, to you, with the concept you have of the Spaniards, you will almost think: "Well, you better not come, don't you? A 14_per_cent has dropped the visits of tourists from the rest of Spain. When other autonomous communities such as Madrid, for example, have increased... ; obviously, what you expel from here, then, take advantage of it other autonomous communities, such as Madrid. Establishment of enterprises. Then we will talk about those who have gone, but those who have stopped creating, which is not so much talked about, we have seen how the creation of enterprises in the first quarter has dropped by 10_per_cent, while in other autonomous communities it continues to grow. And perhaps more importantly, the capital invested in these companies has dropped by 34_per_cent. Another fact: economic slowdown. It is true that it is a trend throughout Spain – you still don't have enough strength to change global trends, either at national or European level – but the reality is that Catalonia is slowing down twice as much as the whole Spanish economy is slowing down. And it's Airef's data, huh? Capital flight. There is not much talk about this either; there is much talk, I insist, of the flight of companies, which you deny, but: Do you know that last year, in the last few months, since you started with this populist nationalist and processionist drift, you have left 35,000_million_euros in capitals, deposits, etc.? Do you think this is not affecting the Catalan economy? Do you know that there are 5,200 companies that have decided to leave Catalonia, according to data from the property registrars? And I could give you a lot more numbers, but I'm limited in time. But the most surprising thing is that, given these objective figures – it's not opinionable, this is data – you say: "No, if there has been no impact on the process. No, it's okay, let's go 35,000_million_euros of deposit, lower inland tourism, business creation..., no, if that doesn't affect anything. Do you imagine what Mr. Torra would say if, in the last few months, after having done what they have done, 5,200 companies had come, 35,000_million_euros of deposits had gone up inland tourism by 14_per_cent? Come on, we were put on TV3 for breakfast, to eat and to eat every day, saying that the process is doing, come on, speed up the Catalan economy. But since it's the opposite way, no, it's okay here. The other day they make a report: « No, no..., the flight of companies has not affected a single euro. I said: "Well, they have controlled a little, because these gentlemen are able to say that it has benefited the Catalan economy; no, no, at least they did not say that it had benefited, they said that it had not affected anything, not a_eurillo, go, nor the coffee that managers are going to take now in Madrid or Valencia instead of here, nothing! , absolutely nothing. But look, this data is very cold. Sometimes, economic data, macroeconomics, are a little cold, isn't it? Let's talk about reality, about people, about what people see every day. The process, basically served to divide Catalonia, to break Catalonia. There are families who have stopped speaking because of this subject, and you will say: "No, if we have not stopped speaking in my family..., of course, it is perhaps that everyone is independent in their family. Or maybe you're lucky you haven't lost any friends, no family relationship, but of course, you're not the measure of all things. Catalonia is not what you live in. One Member says to me: "No, no, I have not lost any friends. It's just that Catalonia is not you, it's just that if you haven't been evicted from your home it never means that there are no evictions in Catalonia. It's just that if you're not on the waiting list, it doesn't mean there's no waiting lists. It's just that if you haven't been insecure, it doesn't mean there's no insecurity in Catalonia. Yes, yes..., you have broken many Catalan families, and many groups of friends, and many working groups. That's what you've done, and what you're going to take from the legacy, you're not going to take anything else positive for the Catalans. There are many officials who have to go to work silently and endure that in their workplace it is enveloped with separatist symbolism. Many have had to participate, without wanting, in their multiple country vacancies, unemployment, why? Because if not, they were the only ones left in the chair, being absolutely identified by the rest of the heads, probably, of the public administration. And one thing I think we should start talking about: do you know how many Catalans are planning to leave Catalonia because they can no longer, because they want to live in peace? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know you love how this Catalonia is getting. On Monday they were delighted with life, but there are many people who are planning to go. In fact, there are indicators, which are the only ones where these things can be measured, right? , of general bodies of the state, of flight of talent, of requests for transfer..., very worrying data, because you are not only driving away companies and capitals, you are driving away Catalans, who are bittering their lives with this obsession. And the Catalans simply want to live in peace, in peace, in coexistence. Many people who have been here for forty, fifty years, who have come from other autonomous communities, or people who are from here all their lives, tell us many times: "We have to see, with how well we were, how happy we lived here, how calm we were, that we did not fight for this kind of thing. But well, I think there is a reality, and it's that there is someone who has actually benefited from the process, this has to be recognized, and it's all the pluggings of the modus vivendi of the chiringuitos and the processing machinery that you've been fattening for so many years. Those are, those are living very well, those want to lengthen the process whatever it is, aren't they? But let's also talk about another one of the fictions that you are making, even for your voters, because, to me, I am worried about all Catalans; I know that for you there is only one Catalonia, the rest we are not Catalans, we are Spanish, others are wild beasts..., to me I am also worried about Catalans who have believed in their lies. You said yesterday: "The process is moving forward. The process is not moving forward, the process you are extending, but moving forward in the sense that there are results that you have promised to the citizenry, not one. And don't get confused, because that you're violating our rights, that you're doing it; that you're running away from businesses, that you're doing it, doesn't mean that you're getting closer to independence. So, to your own voters, listen a little bit – because Monday they told you a couple of things, huh? , that you had to go a little sad – listen to your voters, because they are already tired of their lies. You again, yesterday, pulled the hit this..., this never fails: the « neverendum. When they do not know what to do, when they no longer know what to say to their own: the « neverendum again. By the way, with an ultimatum that doesn't seem to even his traveling companions knew. That's ugly, Mr. Torra, to see if you're going to do the same thing as Puigdemont, huh? , leave everyone lying around when the ugly thing went down. Well, without telling your partners... they said today, didn't they? , that his colleagues in Congress, who are the ones who have to support Pedro Sánchez or were not a little surprised, eh? With your words. No wonder you leave more than half Catalonia, if you treat your partners and partners like this, huh? But, as you are a little, there, you don't know what to promise your own, how to feed that fiction, you have the magic card: to create chiringuitos. Every time you talk, a new chiringuito has been created. Look, I'm going to make you a small compilation, apart from the Council of the Republic, the Assembly of Elects, the legitimate president..., apart from all this, you have taken out in the last few weeks the commissionat of 155. Of course, because at 155 we have to make a commissioner, a specific parliamentary activity..., the same day that you created this commissioner of 155, we ask for a stable committee of dependence. What did you vote for? Not the Dependency, and the 155, yes. We continue: Office of Civil Rights i Politics, which has come up with nothing but putting a militant from the political arm of Terra Lliure in the lead. It's just that you guys are so exquisite when it comes to choosing who these little boys lead, isn't it? The Forum Civil i Social, which you said the other day: "Don't worry, you're going to have a delegation every day. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Don't be short, with only one delegation here in Barcelona; no, no, man, delegations in every veggiery, that you have a lot of people to plug in, don't you? "Digital Republic, we've been told..., I don't know if it's going to be a video game, huh? , in which they point to who else ties put, and who else flags of Spain burn and stuff... These are either smokescreens or mechanisms to plug your people, or both, but it's not going to do you any good, not even your citizens. Do you not think it is time to tell the truth, even to your voters, Mr. Torra? Don't you think the time has come to come down to reality, to tell your voters that you have been lying to them for so long? And after you say this ultimatum, right? You told Mr. Sanchez, he made a threat. And I'm worried about this, I know... and I'd like you to answer these questions that I'm going to ask you. You said here yesterday, very solemn, that if there comes a court ruling that you don't like you won't accept. I ask you: What are you going to do, Mr. Torra? What are you going to do, attack the judges? Are they going to occupy the courts? Are they going to collapse again Catalonia? Are you going to occupy the airport? What are you going to do? Are you going to open the jails to get your friends out? Can you explain here, can you tell the truth to yours and by the way, already, to the rest of the citizenry, what will you do when you do not accept court rulings? Or worse: What are you encouraging the separatist commands to do, Mr. Torra? Because if you don't come out here and rule out all these kinds of actions, if you don't come out here and say, "I won't accept it politically... or we'll file an appeal, if that's okay, I don't think that's the case. Of course, when a Democrat says: "I do not accept this, because everyone interprets that it is: "Hey, then I will not accept it politically, I will complain, I will file an appeal..., but of course, when the head of a separatist command says: "I will not accept something, I will not accept a court ruling... Can you do the favor, here, of clearing up doubts? Because if you don't, do you know what's going to happen, Mr. Torra? , which, if a court ruling comes in a way contrary to what you want, and binds you in Catalonia, you will be responsible for what happens in the streets and in the Catalan institutions. So, take the opportunity to come here. Have you not learned anything from the history of what happens many times when you freeze, you encourage a mass of people, when you do not condemn violence, when you are told to tighten up and then you are not going to fulfill what you have promised to that part of society? Have you learned nothing from what has happened throughout history? Do you really believe that the process is a car and that people, in Catalonia, your people, is a car that you can speed up and slow down when you want? It seems to me that the day you try to stop you will find that these brakes no longer work, Mr Torra, because the Frankenstein of the process you have created will pass over you; you, you will pass over you. And he's not going to be the first political leader throughout history who's devoted himself to stepping out on the street and having passed him over after failing to keep his promises to them. Moreover, you have done a very serious thing, which is to delegitimise judges, delegitimize laws, delegitimize security forces and bodies, delegitimize European institutions because they do not give them reason. When you have made all that broth of cultivation, all the responsibilities of what happens in Catalonia will be directly yours. You – I told Mr Puigdemont many times, it seems to me that you are on the same path – have achieved a very difficult thing, I recognize that it was very difficult, that is to divide Catalan society into two and humiliate, insult, ignore and even expel from your speeches and public acts more than half Catalonia and defraud the Catalonia you represent. And I'm going to tell you something that affects all Catalans, come where they come from, vote for the party they vote for, because we're going to talk about the reality of Catalonia. You had a moment yesterday..., if I may, a moment Aznar, when you said: « Catalonia is doing well, isn't it? I said: "Uf, Catalonia is fine. Okay. But talk about the social reality of Catalans. You don't talk much about these things, I already know; you are more of other kinds of speeches and events, and you like it more, for that, Belgium, the popular festivals, castlers, trabucaires, which, by the way, I say to you, are of all Catalans, not just of the independenceists; the popular culture is of all. But are you aware of the health situation we have in Catalonia? Are you aware of what has happened this summer in primary care centres, in hospitals, the problem of mass consultation? Are you conscious? Are you aware of the conditions in which health professionals are working? Are you aware of the years that have been working in precarious conditions to maintain, by dignity, the public health service in Catalonia? Are you aware of the working conditions that healthcare professionals in Catalonia have not yet recovered? Beyond the wages you've taken away from all the officials. But I am talking about things like DPOs, for example, which we have talked so much about in the Health Committee. Are you conscious? It's just that I don't think you're conscious. Are you aware that in the last few months – in the last data we have, eh? – has three thousand people increased on the waiting list for surgery? Do you have something to say, are you going to do something? Are you aware that there are now five thousand more people waiting for a diagnostic test in Catalonia? Are you aware that right now in Catalonia there are seven thousand more people – I'm talking about too much, huh? – waiting months for a specialist test? Are you aware of the territorial – territorial inequalities that we have in the health service in Catalonia? I'm just gonna give you two data, taken from the Department of Health, huh? They're not ours. Waiting time for a colonoscopy in Sabadell – let's talk about the reality of truth, daily, of Catalans, of the concerns of Catalans–, in Sabadell, 139_days of waiting– listen, eh? –; in Mataró, eighteen. Are you going to do something to better manage resources, to improve the management of waiting lists? Not only from more resources, but also from improving the management of existing resources. Looks like a face... that's surprising to you. Did you not know this? Do you not know the territorial inequality of the health service? I'll give you another piece of information. Waiting time to do a CT scan – we're not talking about any nonsense, are we? –: in Reus, 297_days; in Tarragona, 30. We are introducing in this Parliament a law to improve the management of waiting lists, which can improve, among other things, these kinds of issues. Do you know what your Government did? Introduce an amendment in its entirety so that there is no debate in Parliament on these things. Man, please, where is the 155 commission that most gives these things colonoscopy and TACs, right? What else does that give, who cares. Is he going to do something? I say this because we will re-present this initiative, we will defend it in full. Are you going to withdraw the amendment in its entirety? I'm following you. Education............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You said: "There is a model of success. Success model, education. Do you know that Catalonia is the autonomous community where the money of parents, what parents earn, most influences the outcome of their children? You know it, don't you? Mr. Counselor, this data. Don't you worry? Do you think you can say that this is a model of success? When we lead the inherited inequality in all the autonomous communities. Are you going to do something about it? Because, of course, because they deny the problem, I guess they won't want to put any solution to it, because since there's no problem, it's a model d'éxit. Do you know that we lead the number of children and barracks in our autonomous community? Don't you worry? Do you want to keep opening embassies while you have children in barracks? Really? Unit............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The worst dependency lists in all of Spain: 88,000 people are on waiting list in Catalonia. We have tabled proposals and will, of course, be presenting them in this plenary. Are you going to do something? Are we not in a hurry for these lists, are we only in a hurry for the process? A hurry for your father or mother to have a place in a residence, that... you don't have a hurry. Vocational training. It is absolutely collapsed, since the law that was passed, I insist, with a large majority in this chamber, a few years ago. You have underutilized resources and infrastructure, absolutely stopped programs. I don't say it, even the unions say it. For years. The main reason? Because you don't agree. Because they don't want to encourage this. Are they going to do something with vocational training, something different from stopping it, what they have done in recent years? We're on. The reality of Catalans. Arrive at the end of the month. What do you think, Mr Torra, that the Catalans who charge a medium-low balance, the middle and working class, are the ones who pay the most autonomous portion of the IRPF from all over Spain? What do you think? I'm saying it 'cause then we're up high, right? ; in high sections we are below the average. But what do you think that middle class Catalans, working women, low incomes, middle incomes, are the ones who pay the most taxes from all over Spain? Are you going to do something? I don't think you said anything yesterday. I ask you, is there something you're going to do? Are you going to keep it that way? This affects independenceists and not independenceists. Officials. When will the 2013 and 2014 payments be returned? When are they going to do a calendar that they have been obliged to do for a very long time and have failed to do so? Because that saying independence in eighteen months, all right, huh? , even if they don't comply with it. But putting in a payback schedule, that, they haven't found the time yet. Can you tell the officials, thousands of officials, Catalan families, that they have to organize themselves with their expenses, can you tell them when they are going to pay back? Kindergartens. What do you think of 35,000_million_euros more or less – isn't it? – from budget you don't assign a euro to daycare centers, nor one. You haven't found, as many as 35,000_million_euros a_eurecito', have you? , to fulfill the daycare centers. No, not one. How about you, Mr. Torra? Does that seem to you to be a social budget? Are these people's priorities? Because also yesterday..., I admit that yesterday I had to laugh a little when you say: "I'm going to tell you what we've done in these months, right? since they returned to the government. First thing, huh? , the first thing: put 20_million_de_euros more into the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation. It's not gonna be that machine, is it? Propaganda doesn't get fat. A little bit, 20_million_of_euros more, apart from those we already have, that we have the most expensive television in all of Spain. I'm going to give you a piece of information just so you can get an idea of the magnitude of the tragedy that we understand, right? You know that with 339,000_euros– 339,000_euros – the special needs of children who need specialized care could be met for a whole year because they are deaf children and need interpretation. You know that with 339,000_euros you could solve that problem to thousands of Catalan families. Are you aware, Mr. Torra, when you gave the 20-million-euro TV3 button of this social reality? It's just that maybe he doesn't know it – maybe he doesn't know it. I only give you... This was voted a week ago in Parliament and you rejected it, this money to care for deaf children in school, to have an interpreter in school, 330,000_euros. Of course, last year 10_million_de_euros in institutional advertising to related media, because for that, here, party, huh? But for deaf kids, dependencies, all this, you can't find money. The reality of Catalans. Catalonia is the autonomous community with the highest offices, where these high offices charge the most and where there are the most chiringuitos. And that's right – that's right –, another fiction of the process: those who steal from us are the Andalusians, the Batians, the Madridns, the Galicians... No; I'm going to tell you the reality of Catalonia: those who steal in Catalonia are the corrupt who have robbed the Catalan institutions full-handedly with 3_per_cent or with other cases of corruption. By the way, do you know that yesterday you did not name the word corruption? Because, in the fiction of the process, no one here steals. Of course, since we're Catalans, and those of us who aren't separatists here don't count. As no one here steals because as nationalist supremacism it is believed that here Catalan leaders cannot steal because they are Catalans, how are they going to steal Catalans? You did not name the word 'corruption', one of the main concerns of Catalans, of citizens in general – do you think it is normal? –, you had no time limit. I'll leave a lot of things in the tinker because I'm limited, huh? I really invite you to have an individualized reply to each group chairman. I believe that after months of closure of the Parliament and that you do not respond to a monitoring session, I think that out of dignity you should make an individual reply to each of the parliamentary groups, so we will have more time. But, well, yesterday you didn't comment on the new arrest; an arrest of the president of the Lleida Diputation, a new case. They're still investigating cases of corruption likened to their peers in ideology, aren't they? What will you do when the sentence arrives? Will you bring her here to vote whether or not you like her as she did yesterday with the suspension of her fellow prisoners? Are you going to bring here the Palau case sentence to see if you like it or not? Since we're here, aren't we? If they bring in here to see who gets in or out of jail, I mean, the same thing they hang up... like they do whatever they want. But, well, I could talk to you about a lot of other topics, tomorrow my colleague Carlos Carrizosa will present the proposals, but I will also talk to you about some of the great fictions of the process, because yesterday, really, I kept thinking about one of the things that you always repeat, right? Of course exiles and political prisoners, you say, right? I know what your idea of separation of powers is, I've seen it, I've checked it, I've suffered it here in the first person. I was on September 6th and 7th. I read that demented law in which you said that you, as President of the Generalitat, were going to elect the members of the Supreme Court to your finger. But no one recognizes this quality, this category of political prisoners and exiles, no one; nor Mr Puigdemont, no European Union country, not even Belgium, not even Germany. In those judgments of the German court it was clearly stated that Puigdemont had no risk of being persecuted for his political ideas in Spain. It's just nobody buys it. But I also gave him a reflection of reality. You're in your fiction; I'm going to talk to you about reality. Do you know how many humble, simple Catalan families have complicated environments that a member of their family has in prison? And do you know the number of Catalans and Catalans who, throughout their lives, because they are in very complicated environments, because of difficulties, have made a mistake, sometimes very young, and are years in prison paying for their mistakes without having had either advisers, lawyers, or warnings, or the opportunities you and your colleagues had? I understand perfectly well that any family that has a member in prison will have a very bad time, and it has to be a very painful situation. I totally get it. But when you are in your fiction to ask for pardons only for your own, to ask for discharges only for your own, think of the reality of thousands of Catalan families who have had no chance, no warnings and advisers and lawyers of those you have had. And speaking of pardons, I know that you trust a great floater, which is called the Sanchez government, which is a great lifeguard. Here you have a little one, which can't do much to you either, which is Podemos, which helps you when you can, but you trust a great floater that is the Government of Spain. We have seen members of the Government of Spain promise pardons, contradict the judges, say that they do not like the prison of the imprisoned politicians putting in trial, seriously, at international level even, the criterion of the judges. I'm going to ask you one thing, Mr. Torra, please don't make the same mistake Puigdemont made. Puigdemont believed that he was facing Rajoy and was facing more than half Catalonia and a democratic state of the 21st century of the European Union. And that's the end of it. I ask you: do not confuse the weakness of the Sánchez government with the weakness of Spanish democracy because perhaps we all end badly as we end up with Mr Puigdemont; do not confuse yourselves, the lifesavers you have with the Sánchez government, who need you for the key of Moncloa and the command of the helicopter..., do not confuse themselves with the social majority of Catalonia and with what is a democratic country of the European Union. And I agree with one thing you said. I always like to look for that..., in what unites us, in what we agree. You said yesterday: "Catalonia is running out of patience. You were obviously talking about your Catalonia, weren't you? Of yours, of the independenceists, the rest of us don't exist. But do you know you're right there? Do you know that all of Catalonia is running out of patience? To all; to the independenceists before their lies, because for many years they have heard this from the happy Arcadia. Do you believe that you will be content, when the months pass and you continue to be unfulfilled, will you be content with the commissionat of 155 and the Civic and Political Forum? Do you really believe that these gentlemen who were here the other day are going to be content with these chiringuitos? No, no, They're going to run out of patience, and of course they are. But we are running out of patience for the social majority of Catalonia, of its humiliations that we do not think like you, we do not have the same ideology, of its attacks on our institutions, of its attacks on the symbols that are of all Catalans, official symbols. We are very tired of the violations of our rights, of being excluded from the public space that we have also paid with our taxes. We are very tired that, in the holidays and in the speeches, only you go to a part – respectable, but not majority – of Catalonia. We are very tired – very tired – of the processism as its modus vivendi, because it is what it is: a great modus vivendi that has broken society in half. And we're in a hurry. I am in a hurry to start talking about what unites us and to seek solutions to the problems of Catalans, and to talk about waiting lists, corruption, education, housing, self-government, the environment, many of the things that I insist on today, give me the individual reply and I will continue to comment on it. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] But, of course, we will continue to defend democracy, our institutions, legality, tranquillity, we want to live in peace, we want to live in peace with our neighbours, with our fellow workers, with our families, we want to live in peace in Catalonia and I sincerely believe that the time has come, Mr Torra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.3.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.4.0	It's over, Mr. President. The time has come to tell the truth to the voters of their parties and to the Catalans as a whole. We are going to have to return to dialogue, we are going to have to return to consensus, no doubt, and there will again be consensus here. But first, we need a government that respects all Catalans, everyone, that respects legality and that obviously...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.5.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.6.0	...recognize all Catalans as a member of this society. Meanwhile – in the meantime – Mr Torra, I insist, do not confuse – do not confuse – the situation in which Mr Sánchez is in order to maintain himself in Moncloa, with the situation in which he is more than half Catalonia and the whole of Spanish society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.7.0	Next, it is the turn, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.8.0	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. President Torra, yesterday you disengaged the general political orientation of your government and today it is up to the political forces of the chamber to fix our position to respect. In the opinion of our group, of the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, you lost yesterday the opportunity to chart a new course. And let us lose opportunity – an appreciation – because maintaining the course of the previous legislature, from our point of view, would be a hard mistake. What's the balance of the previous legislature? Because if we don't agree with this already, then we'll hardly agree with the need to change course. We have, today, a more divided society, a weaker economy. We have suffered from the intervention of our self-government institutions and there are political leaders and social leaders in the prison, in the hope of judgment or in the foreigner. Independence did not come and, in change, self-government went bad. I think I just make a description, I don't even go in and signify responsibilities. From our point of view, if anything became clear, it was the uselessness of the unilateral and illegal way which, moreover, had harmful and counterproductive effects. How did he feel, then, would he intend to follow that path? Wouldn't it be better to rectify? Review plantings? It does not say that the objective of independence is legitimate; I simply say that that path does not work and therefore try to find another one. We sincerely believe that a review of strategies and objectives is required. I don't know if they're self-criticizing, but the words "we've come from a beacon or we don't have anything to prepare are self-criticizing. But it's not worth fooling yourself or fooling yourself about a few things either. Yesterday itself, here itself, it cannot be said that a judicial resolution is not being complied with, while a resolution is being adopted to make it effective, as was done in the case of the Members suspected by decision of the Llarena court. Yesterday, a Catalan newspaper expressed it that way. I quote, "President Torra suffers from the distance between his words and his deeds. Tanco comets. Diari Ara. And that's not gonna work out for the big beast. If he acts within the law, as it should be, he has not disobeyed himself. Only respect for legality guarantees coexistence and respect for the rights of all; a legality that can always be changed through the majority and the instruments that allow it to be reformed. President, when a speech is made that you don't have to see with reality, it generates great frustration and frustration can generate some outbreak of intolerance or violence. We'll see you at the gates of this Parliament. You cannot, in our opinion, call for mobilisations and ask the CoR to press and then send the Moves to dissolve them. And then don't give support to the Mossos in the development of the pocket they've assigned them. And then, making slow speeches to comfort the citizens, who don't understand why the president calls them to mobilize and then sends the Mossos to dissolve them. To speak of a 'late heat', to cry out to 'light the streets' is not the first task of which you have the security of all the citizens of Catalonia, of which you must guarantee the rights of everyone, the tranquility of everyone. It's not your business, in our opinion. I remind you of the Law of the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra, which establishes in its article 2: "It is close to the Government of the Generalitat, by means of the President, the supreme command of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. This command is exercised by the person holding the Department of Governance, in the terms set out in Article 16. Supreme command of the Squad Mosses. We ask him: I support the Mossos. We have given them a very difficult task, among all of us, and I believe that we must not only offer them our respect, but also our support particularly in difficult times. Second question you wanted to comment on, Mr. President. In our opinion, his speech only addresses the independenceists and forgets the others. And that's a mistake. You will say to me, and you are right, in this sense: "The measures contained in the plan of government go to the city council and not just to one side. That's what you're right about. But the objective of independence, clearly present in his speech, is not that of the majority of Catalans and it is relatively simple to prove it in figures, only to go to the result of the later elections to Parliament: Together for Catalonia, Esquerra and the CUP obtained 2,079,340 votes, 47,5_per_cent, in a hundred of 5_million_i_mig people. If we are talking about the results of the 2014 referendum or the 2015 elections or, finally, about the result that you gave of the vote of October 1, to round up, it is 2_million, that are many, but the hundred is 5_million_i_mig of people. When you focus on the goal of independence you forget more than half the Catalans. You said, a few weeks ago, a phrase that worried us, but perhaps, is that we didn't know how to interpret it well, he said – and I went over the date so I wouldn't be wrong – "I refuse to accept that we don't have the social majority enough; we have it. If I meant that it is not resigned, that you legitimately want to increase this support, nothing to say. Now, what... if I mean that there's a majority for independence and that, therefore, his government has subordinated everything to this objective, we can't agree with it. You have a parliamentary majority that enables you to govern, but you don't have a majority that legitimizes or allows you to either skip legality or pursue rupturist objects that don't count on the majority support of the citizenry. You are very often talking about the democratic mandate, but, Mr President, there is no democratic mandate in favour of independence. As I said, it wasn't 2012 or 2014, or 2015, or October 1 or December 21. You yourselves admit it, when, again, you claim a reference, accepting either that it did not happen or that it did not win. If I didn't hear it wrong, he said to us: "If we make a new reference, we forget what we have already done. I don't know how this will sit with the people you brought to the polls and told them that that was the final thing. And we also heard that he said to us: "If we do not like the Supreme's feeling, this enables us to be independent. Believe me, Mr. President, we think this isn't the way. First, I would like to acknowledge that there is an important division between Catalans, and many examples and many reasons could be given, but allow me only one. Now a documentary has come out, of which enough is spoken, but I could not see, but, that carries a well illustrated title: Dos Cataluñas. President, our parliamentary group does not want two Catalonias, in vol. one of its own. Mass years fighting under the flag of a people's sun, as if to resign us, now, with a split in half. Just because we're Catalans, we don't want to resign to this division. We are convinced that we can apply a vast majority of Catalans to an effort to strengthen self-government, to improve funding, to ensure the present and the future, to fight for a more free and secure society, more ahead and fairer. Many of us could advance together this way and Catalonia would win. President, from our point of view, division harms us and prevents us from moving forward. I would like to remind you, with a mandate given to you by this Parliament on 5 July, when a motion was approved urging the Government to convene, on behalf of the President of the Generality, all the presidencies of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups with the aim of constituting a dialogue area to facilitate agreements on all the major issues of the country. President, as I know, you still have no initiative in this regard. Certainly, as it is July 5th, we are on time, but it seemed appropriate to use the debate to remind them of it. You want to negotiate with the Government of Spain, without worrying before to reach a broad agreement in Catalonia. We think this is a mistake. You cannot take initiatives oblivious to the majority of Catalans, regardless of the majority of Catalans, regardless of this Parliament. Now he talks to us about a civic forum to draw up a constitution, but we would like to see 'Labans working for the inescapable agreement between the parliamentary political forces. We do not do any more already, because you were not there, but on July 27, 2016, this Parliament approved solemnly, in one of the many historical days that we have experienced, the conclusions of the Commission for the Study of the Constituent Procedure, which, among other things, as they were illegal and did not count on the support of two thirds of the chamber, then they were annulled, moreover, by the Constitutional Court and it was shown that this did not go away. We all know that there is no possibility of pushing a profound change in our institutional framework without a minimum support of two thirds of the members of this chamber, and therefore, let us not deceive ourselves, let us not deceive ourselves, let us not seek right where we are not. The one we are proposing will certainly not be an easy way, but it will not be the path without exit to which it seems to invite us. Remember the old Catalan maximum, which has been written or said of many ways, when he says: "Units will advance, divide be defeated. Of all people it is necessary to build a proposal that can be amplified by the majority. Not a proposal of 51_per_cent against 49_per_cent, whether it is 51 or 49, is equal to me; we do not believe that questions that affect feelings of identity or belonging may resolve 'hope for the pure application of the rule of the majority and less in polarization situations as it occupies us. A more powerful self-government, a better finance, more and better infrastructure. That's what we need, and I think we have a way to get it. Certainly, I should also say 'there: I think it was not certain not to participate in the summit for the Mediterranean Corridor celebrated recently in Barcelona. But, in any case – and as I would not like my intervention to be only critical, I think it is an opportunity to make an objective balance – I want to express the satisfaction of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance the recovery of the dialogue between its government and the Government of Spain. I know that there are people who say, "You don't have to talk to people who think differently. Or the independenceists, when they say so. We don't believe it. You have to talk to everyone all the time. And I have the list of public meetings held and, actually, as I am half an hour, but it would still be short, I will not tell you, however, since the first meeting with President Sánchez, the meeting between the vice-presidents, between the councillors and the ministers, the meeting of the Bilateral Commission, the meeting of the Security Board... Yesterday, there were two meetings of this nature in Barcelona, one on housing and another that agreed to make effective, to sell, the incorporation of the Mosos into the CITCO, that is the Centre for Intelligence against Terrorism and Organized Crime, that I believe was a very old claim, that we all share and that, finally, thanks to this dialog, it will be possible to pull forward. We congratulate and congratulate, logically, the counselor. Finally, it was said that the Vice-President would participate, after enough time not to do so, in a meeting of the Tax and Finance Policy Council. We believe that this is the way: to meet, to talk, to wake up. I see you don't care. I hope they don't share the secs there, because then I don't know who would collect ours. But we have seen that this has a sense and an objective. We have seen how the Government of Spain withdraws an unconstitutional appeal against the Catalan law guaranteeing the universalization of public health; a first agreement, of EUR 1,459_million, in the concept of payments of old debts, and the refinancing of EUR 2,773_million that they were about to pay, to be paid on short terms and that we can pay on long terms. It's true that we all want a lot more and a lot more of a hurry, but our demand today is to make sure that this path gives results and that it's worth not abandoning. From our point of view, as much as I have done, there can be no doubt about the right path: cooperation and institutional loyalty. Certainly, we have had too much time without a dialogue, but I would now like to take advantage of this opportunity. I don't think anyone can doubt, from this point of view that I was commenting on them, the one that was good, the positive effects of the change from government to Spain, and the need to take advantage of it for the sake of our citizens. There's a window of opportunity to take advantage of. But you, from our point of view, yesterday again make the mistake of saying: « self-determination or nothing, « ending the separation of powers in the Spanish State or nothing. And he says, "We'll let President Sánchez get away with it if Albert Rivera and Pablo Casado fix us up. Well, that's a possibility. Now, President, I remember something that I think you, that you're a lover of history... : Catalunya, when you've played everything or nothing you've always lost. True, there can always be an exception in the future, but if we have to stick to history – and you are a lover of history – when we played it that way, we lost it. I ask you, on behalf of my group, not to make this mistake again. And now I would like to speak briefly about the priorities of the government. Look, we've read your government plan carefully, and I'll tell you, we share a lot of goals. I know that the opposition is always saying, and it is true, that the government plan is lacking in concrete terms, that we will have to wait for the assumptions to be able to really establish what is the level of its government's compromise with the written words, but the government plan is fine. Now, we would like, as we come from here, to tell him some of the things that I think would be hot to squeeze – this yes, "squeeze in a positive sense" of government action. We'll talk about economy and assumptions when the presupposition debate comes, but we think it's time to turn the detail back into social policies. We have not only been from the autonomous Spanish communities that the most detailing has done, but we are the one who is tricking the most to recover the detailing introduced. For example, in the report of the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, he says that Catalonia is the autonomous community that has more detailed its social spending since 2009. For what he does to the system of dependence, it seems to me that he has quoted exactly the xifra, the leader of the opposition: eighty-eight_thousand people– 88,237 – people are on the waiting list. One_of_each_three dependents that are in the waiting list to all of Spain is Catalan. And, on the other hand, our population still doesn't exceed 18_per_cent; so, if we have a ratio of 33, when we only represent 18, it's that things aren't right here. We believe that people need to get better and much more attention, that this can generate more jobs. And here we are surprised that, just as at the Spanish level all benefits to non-professional caregivers are being recovered, Catalonia is going backwards, in the absolute opposite direction. Addressing the needs accredited for the Department of Social Welfare and Families would require the creation of 14_000 work places. Make sure you're ciutadania. A little more than 7_percent of the people who asked for it have rejected it. Certainly, the department tells us that it has management difficulties, that 155, obviously, encouraged many things, that many of the solicitors do not believe they deserve it, but a 7_per_cent, president, consider it an unacceptable xifra. More than 19,500 people are still awaiting validation, and as the July Ordinary Plenary was suspended, homeless people and victims of male violence still cannot perceive this guaranteed income of citizenship. Today, for example, we were able to read the news that the government only spent 60 percent of the budget to fight the energy poverty. In this case, we are not asking for more money, but for more efficiency in the provision of services and in the allocation of resources available. People with disabilities. This collection, from our point of view, continues without being a priority for the Government. Before, Inés Arrimadas spoke– and, therefore, I will be relieved – from the attention to the deaf people, but I should also say that the government is not doing what is required to subsidize with 50_percent of the minimum interprofessional wage the special work centres; that the Catalan sign language of 2010 or the 2014 Law of Accessibility has not yet developed; that it is a code of accessibility, but it has not yet developed a good part of the law, which, moreover, is not financially sound, and we have not yet adapted the Catalan legislation to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Minors don't go with them. There's been enough talk about it. We are aware of your Government's concern. It is obvious that it is a phenomenon that goes beyond the possibilities of an autonomous community, which is what it is. And, therefore, count on us to work, to reflect, or to possibly manage to coordinate the administration's task well with this respect. Childhood policies. Look, as we were told yesterday that it will create a secretary who, among other things, will address this issue, we want to give the benefit of the doubt, but it is a priority that has not yet rejected the necessary attention. The figure of child poverty, the experts tell us, is 28.5_per_cent. It's totally unacceptable. Only countries with Romania or Bulgaria have such high figures. It's not a new problem, and it's not to be surprised if there are a hundred and seven thousand families waiting for a safe shower, who will be the fate of the children of those families? The average of European countries allocates 2.4_percent of GDP to child support policies; Catalonia is only 0.8_percent. We're talking about children who don't have proper food, who don't have proper clothes, who don't live in suitable habitats, and, indeed, with a very special, very unique, affect on the children of immigrant families. Policies of salvation. As is well known, not only are fortunes inherited, but salvation and poverty, too. And there's a cause-effect relationship between low economic inflows, the long-term outlook, the risk of poverty and social exclusion, and lower life expectancy, up to six years of difference. And to this should add the changes in the structure and the needs of the population, the geographic dispersion and the non-reversion of the produced retailers. The waiting lists have increased, between April and July – they are still data from the department –, in three_1,000 more people waiting for surgery, five_1,000 more waiting for medical proof, and seven_1,000 more waiting to visit the specialist, and it is an increment that occurred when the extraordinary foundations have already ended. Therefore, we are ahead of a problem that we are not only reduced, but that these waiting lists are increasing. The problem of public health professionals has also been raised: a reduction of up to 25_per_cent, high levels of precariousness, reduced seedlings, lack of substitutions, work overloads; a situation some have described – and I believe they do not – as a limit. Only the 21_percent of the new members sorted out the speciality of primary; year 96 was 45_per_cent, indicating that we are very mature. The salary mass of the total faculty of the ICS, the year 2010, was 721_million euros; 2017, 652, 70_million menys. Therefore, we are not talking about small figures. Then, visiting hospitals– you seem to have already visited someone; I, with whom I spend more time, have visited a few more– have to renew certain equipment that is already absolutely at the limit or obsolete. There's a saying that the report speaks of a 10-percent obsolete device. Cal increase spending in health. The year 2010 was almost 1,300_euros per inhabitant; the year 2017, at 1,186. We're going to have to go up this cup. We need a human resource base, not just for the professionals we have, but for the ones we need. In two years retirement is 25_percent of professionals, and, unfortunately, our country is exporting health professionals. Maybe we need them ourselves, and faster than we think. We need to convert primary and community care into the system's core. Education. I think that here, as the counselor would give me the reason, we have an underfunded public education, along with what we have fixed ourselves, perhaps in an overvoluntarist way, in the Law of Education of Catalonia, which we spoke of the 6_per_cent; now we have the 2.8. But really, if we don't reverse the trend, we'll be failing at this point. I understand it well when you speak of the success model; it speaks of satisfaction, but not complete. It's our aspiration. Now, if we really want it to be successful, we must bear in mind that we have too many high rates, that the plants are not growing sufficiently, that we cannot therefore guarantee inclusive school, that we still have too many barracks, that the zero-three stage of education is still abandoned and that, from the FP, we have not just come out very well. We have made some advances in dual vocational training, but we do not respond to the needs of society or to what should be a robust system that does not provide the false idea that only getting to university is the path of success for a person. We're pending assumptions and here we'll really see where the government's compromise is. And believe that we would want this compromise to be complete. Speaking of universities, too, and quite briefly, we've had retails since 2010, of a 30_per_cent. Public funding has increased from EUR 1 million to EUR 7 million. It's obvious we're not where we should be. You see, we're the community that's grown the most from materials, and so we'd have to try to make this injustice..., or to lower the prices of materials or to greatly increase the import of scholarships and the quantity of scholarships, to balance things. And there was too much temporality and too much precariousness in the seedlings of university professors, who, at the same time, are also getting old and there is no call for nine seats. The combination of these circumstances makes us a fairly desolating diagnosis for what it does to the future of the Catalan university, all of which we all do, and it is true, that we are satisfied with our universities. But as we ask them more, we need to help them more so that they can have it. In the field of occupation we would like a special job inspection plate. In other communities and the Government of Spain are also taking an offensive for decent work, for the outpouring of all kinds of fraud in the contract, in order to try to ensure that there are neither false temporal nor false autonomies. The Third Sector Table tells us that we have 500_000 poor workers in Catalonia, and we believe that one of the reasons for this is precisely temporality and partiality in the labour market, which, to a good extent, are not justified. Only a determined action of the inspection can contribute to the emergence of this sacre and to reshape it. Three million contracts in Catalonia were signed in 2017, and almost 90 per cent were temporary contracts; in addition, one_of_each_three, very short-lived, up to a maximum of seven days. It's not acceptable. The main labour problem today is working conditions, the quality of employment, the social protection of workers and for this reason the failure to meet labour standards and social security as a result of the increase in inequalities, the precariousness and deterioration of working conditions of employees. And so – and I get the key – to fight this situation we need more resources in the job inspection, and, moreover, to direct the tasks of the inspection to the sectors that most fraud and abuse focus, thus protecting the most vulnerable collectivities. We should talk to him about housing too, we think we have an insufficient public park. Certainly, we have some problem in terms of unconstitutionality resources that have limited the Generality's possibilities for action. Let's work on it. I understand that the two governments are talking and are, for what they tell me, willing to play vows to allow the resolution of this conflict. They will also understand that you make a special element of equality policies. The presupposition dedicated to women's policies since 2010 has been spread out in a 31_per_cent. On the other hand, it is women who carry out the most precarious jobs in our society and earn the lowest wages. The Bretxa salarial in Catalonia is a 23,9_per_cent. To be more precise, men's average wages are around 27,000 euros, and women's salaries are 21,000 euros; this is the round gyra. The female activity rate is currently two points lower than that of men, and that of the twilight, four points higher. I don't think I can give more money to justify a problem that we all share. And, therefore, the government – forgive the expression – has to put the batteries on this issue. We want to thank him for the concrete element he made yesterday of the Catalan Pact against Masclist Violence. We share the objective, and therefore more to say. The sooner we can put all the folds in, the better. Collection of lesbian, gay, transgender, bisexual and intersexual people. Miri, president– you were not there, but you are the president–, the year 2014 we approved a law to fight homophobia, to guarantee the rights of LGBTI people. There are three questions that have not yet been resolved by the Government: one, a sanctioning procedure has to be regulated, contemplated the law, which has not been done; the national council of LGBTBI people has not been created, nor has the coordination body of the Government's LGBTBI policies been created. We ask him to really – with forgiveness of speech – put the banya there and no longer comes out of this subject, very sensitive with an important collection but also shows the government's full commitment to equality. In matters of youth we could talk about many things: the youth level, we talked about education and university, we also talked about young people, but we are particularly concerned about the names of young people who have to go to the search for new professional, professional and personal fields. I have to tell him that many times this exodus has some positive element, sense of doubt; opening horizons is also the will of many young people. But we wouldn't like to see young people leaving because they only have this possibility. There are other autonomous communities that have put youth return plans on the march. We would also like the Government of Catalonia to study this possibility and bring it to the chamber. In the field of culture, as you have already said, just underline: "windfires, it has sometimes been said – not thinking about the council, eh? Thinking of culture – let us hope that I will stop being – let us hope that I will stop being. It is a problem, yes, sometimes, presuppositional, but sometimes also attention and compromise. And in this I must say: when members of the government or their president speak of books or carry a book under their arms, we rejoice. The creation of culture, the creation of habitats and costumes is fundamental. Now, we have a presuppositional problem and we should reformulate the Conca, renew its members, which have expired their term of office a long time ago. And I see I'm running out of time. I'd like to talk to you about agriculture...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.9.0	Indeed, Mr. Iceta, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.10.0	One minute, would you, President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.11.0	Not a minute, but a little less.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.12.0	Well, I'll make the effort as much as I can to make the statements. Agriculture.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We should get better, because we have enormous potential. Tourism. Downhill alert. We have to fight tourismphobia. So let's not go anywhere. Energy transition. We talk about it a lot, but still the role of renewable energies in our energy mix is ridiculous. With the local world still not collaborating, at least in the measure that we think should be done. We lack the law of local governments and the law of local heirs, which is true that as the legislatures last a little while, it seemed to us yesterday that this will not last very long, so we never finished fixing it. I'm done here. He could speak of justice and interior... but, President, we still have serious doubts about the government's ability to govern. Certainly, a hundred days are short, but yesterday it seemed to us that the bells of the last turn were already ringing. Let's hope it's not that way, for the sake of all of us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.13.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.14.0	Yes; thank you, President, and good morning, President, and good morning to all. President Torra, yesterday you spoke for about an hour and a half and talked about a lot of things. Tanmateix, he didn't make a single proposal for 400,000 people who are in the dark. He spoke of Catalan school, but did not say "public school" or "fight against segregation". For what he does to finance the Bressol schools, he only said to "look at what margin we have, when we all know here that it is an indispensable tool for equal opportunities. He liked the pocket of the workers and the public workers mainly during 155, and he's very nice, but I think people, more than anyone else, want to collect, and we're the only territory in the whole state that hasn't yet paid the 2013 and 2014 extra pay to the public workers. So, beyond chips to the scale, it would be good to complete its responsibilities. And, besides, he announced that he would create a secretary of childhood, adolescence and youth, when all the experts would tell him that this is barbarity, because depending on the age they are very different the needs. And, yes, the great headline; the great headline is that he threatened Pedro Sánchez with instability in Spain if in one month he does not submit a proposal for the referendum. The new version of "we are in a hurry, that all of us, in addition, know how it ended: it ended fatally. They're back to putting out the impossible calendars. Yes, he later acknowledged that they need more political intelligence and more self-criticism, and that they need to speak more clearly. Say that for one side, but for another side the facts will prove the opposite. Look, I only have thirty minutes today, after three months of a parliament shut down to show its tensions, the lack of political direction, the lack of clear direction and the contradictory strategies of its government. And now we'll find each other again, after these three months, with a government that's lost, that doesn't know where it's going and that improvises. Because I have to admit, the last thing he did to Pedro Sánchez yesterday is one of the nine improvisations. You know it, I know it, and everybody knows it. But it's that, besides, it's not just that they improvise anymore, but that they don't manage well either. In fact, when we're done with this Ple, Councilman Buch will have to give explanations for the inconsistency and mismanagement they've made of this October 1st. They lied saying that there were no police charges, when there was; we all saw the lack of planning, and, moreover, you were cheering for one side of the CDR and while Mr. Puigdemont was walking away. So, what are we doing here? I think it's this lack of direction and coherence between what they say and what they do, and then they want to rent out in their hands, what is creating this frustration; frustration because, in short, no one is able to feel represented by this government: nor those who voted for it, because they have seen that promises are not being fulfilled, nor those who did more than one year saw how they pulled for the right and left half a million people in Catalonia. The summary: frustration. And now, I see this situation, because I think you're aware of it, you want to make it up to me for a month, when everyone knows that in thirty days it's impossible to negotiate a reference; it's impossible. And what's that gonna bring? More frustration. And within a_me we'll be the same again; no, worse. So, thinking about how to summarize the reptes and concerns that many people have before the lack of direction of their government from the very day of the elections, I would say that today what Catalonia needs is that we talk about the future, of hope and of life; of life with capitals, that is the life of the common people. Because if we look at each other's eyes and all of us here, we know that all the people of Catalonia, speak the language they speak, visca where visca, have the ideology they have, all of us have the right to move forward to a field that is still shared. Because the best of Catalonia has brought its people, and it's more like an open people, it's a talking people, it's a mixed people, it's a peaceful people. We are the people we have shown over the last few years a thousand times that we want to forge our lives and that we would be solid. Since the 15th, passing through the response to the harsh storm of Barcelona, the Catalonia of "we want to embrace, that of the general waves, that of the '1st of October, that of the 8th of March, which puts in value the diversity and tells us that we are not alone. Here is the centrality of the country, and not in the constant attempt to estibar – estibar – to get bigger. That's where the centrality of the country is. And that's why I'm going to talk about the future, the hope and the life, because it's the requirement that we have to self-impose ourselves as representatives of the people of Catalonia. It is the best we can do for our people, for all those who make every day Catalonia work and who want to rebuild more beyond sectarianism and short glances... It is the best we can do for the 25_percent of children who are at risk of poverty; for the 18_percent of people who work but are still poor and those who seek and find work, there is no way; and for the students who have had to leave the university because they cannot pay taxes; for the abused and murdered women; for the LGTBI people who are besieged; for the children who do not accompany them to the streets of the cities; for the migrant people who do not have papers and who are exploited; for the people who are waiting for them during the month; for the people who lose their homes or who are not able to sustain them. And they deserve it, too, and it's the best we can do, for which they were hit on October 1st to defend the ballot box and the right to decide; for the independence leaders unjustly undertaken, because everyone knows that there is no rebellion, that there is no siege and that there will be no political solution to the conflict without being around these people. We will also do so for all people – writers, singers, tweeters, wanderers – who have seen threats for the law bite, for the spread of freedoms and, ultimately, for a state that has for its people and for the people that are demanding their rights. And we will also do so for all the people who now feel frustrated see how much they promise and have not completed anything. For all of them and for all of them, we think we need to talk about the future, hope and life. Talking and agreeing, because that's what will allow us to get out of the block we're in. Cal, of one band, reduce the abyss of inequality to build a better Catalonia. And I want to defend broad consensus before the retaliation and repression that we are patenting on civil rights and on the freedom of speech. But, President, I want to speak to Parliament, because this is where the popular sovereignty of Catalans and Catalans is right, where the voice of all the people is represented. There is no need to talk in a monologue at the National Theatre, there is no need to talk in a conference to Brussels; that is where they must be held accountable. Because sobriety is not just a thing that is proclaimed to be enphore, sobriety is a thing that is exercised to be exercised, giving the word to the people and giving the word to the opposition. Because without popular sovereignty there is no national sovereignty. And this picks up in this room that you've had more than three months, because people don't see the obvious division between you and the lack of joint strategy. And yesterday you yourself recognized it, he said textually: "It is necessary to return to the unitary work and stop looking at yourself. That's what you recognized. Do you think your speech yesterday went on this line? I don't think so. President, to talk about the future first what you have to do: lower the theater screen and admit that the colons are flying alone; no one should make them fly. I need to listen to the big majorities. When what we have before us is so raw, because we are in a very harsh situation, what we have to do is neither make it up nor dress it up: what we have to do is transform it. And that's why we need to rebuild the consensus in Catalonia. First, we work here, and then we go to deal with the state. And that's not in a_month; it can't be, in a_month. They don't have these impossible terms. You say so yourself: there is an 80_percent of Catalonia that is in favour of the right to decide, an 80_percent that condemns the repressive action of the State and an 80_percent that does not feel the monarchy as its own. A 80_per_cent, by the way, which is October 1st, which is October 3rd, and which you increased on October 27th with a unilateral strategy that proved to be unsuccessful, that proved ineffective. A unilateral path that was a mistake, as you yourselves recognize in private. So, you're asking them to be honest. They ask them to do the country the favor of saying in public what they say in private: that the DUI is going to be a mistake. Because in this way it will be much easier for us to move forward with great consensus, which is essential and which no one has right to squander. Because, if not, it's that in the end we have improvisations and continuous contradictions. And we see from one side: some public and very, very, very recognizable of independence now make sure that everyone knew that it was not looking for the DUI to be effective; basically, because no dialogue or agreement with the State will be possible. Now we have others to admit that the job they have now is to punch the magic independence bottle. We have this for one thing, but we also have those who have government responsibilities are saying that what we need to do is to make up the digital republic, because we don't depend on the state on the Internet, right? Sure. And yesterday you said that you were advancing in making the republic effective. Mr. Torra, that's not clear, that's not self-criticism. That's continuing with the contradictions. What exactly are we talking about? We're talking truths to myths, contradictions, improvisations, disorientation. Honestly, I think we're talking about a government that went off the rails. Because you don't have a clear proposal for Catalonia. But, well, I've already told him that we want to talk about the future, and that means that you're supposed to keep 47_per_cent– that with the speech he made yesterday I would say that everything is on the way–, or if he wants to rule the whole town and build a historical block for the rights and freedoms of Catalans and Catalans. And when we talk about rights and freedoms, we talk about democracy, we talk about a broader look, we talk about the right to vote, about demonstration, about organization, about expression, but we also talk about the right to have a decent life, because, in short, this is the only thing that gives us conditions to be free: a decent life. We're talking about a pre-revenge bloc looking for political solutions, and that they understand that we're saving all of us or there's no saving anyone. Do you think that they are able to leave the party behind and generously seek to reach broad agreements on the future of Catalonia that will improve the lives of the common people? He gave Xavier Domènech to the investiture speech of Mr. Turull that you had no strategy beyond the epic of defeat, and that you had no tactics beyond the pure reaction to the judicial calendar. And, in six months, what we see is that you have gone from not having strategy to having contradictory strategies in the same government, to saying one thing and the counter in the same speech. And we see it all the time, we see it, you see it all, and I just need to listen to the loudspeakers. And it's that yesterday you didn't offer answers and yesterday you didn't propose exits. Why, what proposal do you have, Mr. Torra, to work for freedom of prisoners and political pressures? Let's hope it's not a conviction, but what if it is? Who's the strategy? What are you thinking, saying that if the sentence is a conviction, he'll call an election? Are we talking about this? Is that all we can offer? Because one thing is not tending to the polls and another is avoiding responsibilities think that calling some elections is all solved, and that's not it. What is the path, that does not straighten it, that contemplates to get a given reference? Threatening Pedro Sánchez with instability to Spain? Let's think about it, if we can threaten it is because we are determinant, therefore, because in terms of making use of the strength that we have the Catalan Members of Congress to threaten not to serve it, do we not use it to get better for Catalonia? Won't it be better to use it this way? And we're talking referendum. I have to say, I didn't just make myself clear what his idea is about the reference. Because in the same speech we listened to him not to be repeated because it has already been done, and therefore we do not have to go back; but, on another side, minutes later, and in the same speech, he urges the Government of Pedro Sánchez to convene a referendum in an agreed manner, which committed us all to respecting the results, as did the British and Canadian governments. What are we in for, then? Is it done? Do we have to do it? Will we? I'm telling you that we think we can do it; as a reference granted, linking and with international recognition, here they will find us, now and always – now and always. Others, before, no; now, yes. Let's see. We, now and always. A reference that, before anything else, must first work in Catalonia – now I say how –, must first work in Catalonia in a clear-cut pact – a clear-cut pact. Today we register a motion for a resolution, which we hope will be supported by you tomorrow, to work as this reference should be, first, here in Catalonia, but without impossible terms that will only generate frustration, and that you know that they are impossible. We, from Catalonia to Comú Can, have offered you a very simple proposal to start working together: the table of the dialog and this clarity pact. And at that time, I noticed, we still didn't have the fish and the ability to stop the government of Pedro Sánchez that we have now. The proposal is on the move. We are a table of dialogue and a pact that allows us to reach an agreement as widely as possible in this Parliament for the celebration of the referendum and to work for the freedom of prisoners and political prisoners. A table of the dialog where, by the way, the PSC should also be. Take part, please, in the dialog table and in the clarity pact, because it is clear that you need to talk to the State. Sure, always, but before, and first, we have to talk to Catalonia. Let's get to work first, clear up between us, and then, further on, we'll go talk to the State. And, yes, yes... I listened perfectly to what Mr. Iceta said. What's going on is that sometimes you don't just get the point. [[remorse of the voice]] , because if it were up to you and the vote you made yesterday, today we would not be celebrating this general policy debate and today we would have the Parliament closed. [[Greetings.]] Yeah. Look, Mr. Torra, the freedom of business people and the reference that Catalonia still has to do is a time of serious work in which many political forces and the vast majority of the citizens of this country can come to terms with each other and make strength. So I'm going back to say, if you don't have a plan, accept ours. We are looking for the political solutions that claim the situation of absolute anomaly in which we are. I'm telling you, it won't be easy, it won't be in a month, I can guarantee that, but it will be. Why, while you're on the noose, "unnoticed, do you know who you're giving space to? They're giving space to these people we have sitting here; they're giving space to which they're asking again to apply 155; to which they go to public television to insult presenters and threaten to close communication media; to which they're trying to end the model of linguistic immersion and falsely accuse the teachers– and this summer we haven't seen an example. Keeping Parliament closed and full of contradictions has only given them to Mrs. Arrimadas and Mr. Rivera to walk through Catalonia, as if behind this there is something of courage. And I want to say, do you know what courage is? Valentia are the people who each day lay their bodies in front of their house to put up with the misdemeanours. That's brave, and don't take away the deep ties of the people of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] And, of course, Mrs. Arrimadas, we are no one's lifeguard; we defend the lives of the common people, and we defend the rights and freedoms. The lifeguards are you, who are the lifeguards of the most corrupt party in Europe, which is called the People's Party, axes are you. [[Greetings.]] I told him that I would also talk about hope, that it's nothing more than talking about all these years of mobilizations in defense of rights and freedoms. People have expressed their hopes for a Catalonia that it is able to advance towards a better future, a more just Catalonia, that counts with all and that can decide its future. And before the current frustration, now more than ever, we need to talk about hope and talk about opportunity and exits. You said that nothing could change without independence, and that it was necessary to postpone everything, but we saw that it wasn't like that. Catalonia has been one of the main protagonists to take out the People's Party of the Government of the State, party that has done so badly to Catalonia and to the rest of the territories of the State; a party that is unable to make political; a party that falls into tax havens, under police posts and under the toga of justices. Well, we've managed to get out of that stage and we can move on to a new one. We see that whenever Catalonia advances Spanish it is soft. We know that Sánchez and the current PSOE are not – they are not – the government of change that we would want. I insist, they're not. It is not the brave government of the Barcelona City Council that faces the lobby to try to lower the bill for the light and to which no one will ever find a connection with figures as insignificant as Commissioner Villarejo. You know that. But we also know that today we are much more willing to make good Catalan Members and Deputies and also to get this to follow a verdant transition stage on the change, which ends once and for all with Mariano Rajoy's legacy. As the first Catalan force in the Congress, we give our hands to stretch from all sides and make it clear that any solution and any political proposal will have to be voted for by the people of Catalonia. And our bet has always been clear: bilateral relationship with the State with shared sovereignties, a tax agency of its own and a reform of the financial system, because what we currently have is a shame. Now a window of opportunity is opened in which Catalonia can become a protagonist again. That's right, if we build a future and a life from the hopes of so many people. Now we have the opportunity to consolidate a progressive bloc here and in the State that sets us an example for a whole continent. A continent that is Europe, where racism, xenophobia and exclusion from European principles and values are waning due to the lack of response from some elites who continue to apply the same austerity receipts that have brought us so far and that have only created and multiplied inequality, injustice and the protection of our peoples. In this context, it is even more important that we know how to set up and table a political proposal that generates consensus in Catalonia and makes us at the forefront of Europe. And to do so we need audacity, intelligence and generosity. Europe is now a key area for Catalonia to denounce repression. You know, it's okay to go on and on, but it can't just be that. It's got to be a lot more. It is true that you and we have an approach that is radically different from Europe. Our look is of the future, they understand Europe as the political battlefield to approach reptes, like climate change, inequalities and oligarchic power to finance. A common immigration and asylum policy that continues to compromise with human rights and the fight to the extreme right in all its declines, which are many in it. So democracy and the values of citizenship must be the pillars, and that is why we must make a solid political proposal to Catalonia that follows an example for Europe. And as I said, I also wanted to talk about life. You're used to talking a lot of life. Yesterday he didn't talk about life, I don't think he was in the mood. What we don't know is whose life you're used to talking about at the National Theatre or, for example, at his investiture speech. Because feminists when we talk about life talk about putting life at the centre of decisions and policies; we talk about a life that pays the penalty to live it; a life in capitals. And that's why we're a force that fights for real democracy and we defend citizenship before lobbyists, hotel lobbyists, energy lobbyists, money back, before a government of the generality that we see is that it only manages and does empty rhetoric... because it's full of contradictions. We have a government in Barcelona, but also many other municipalities in Catalonia, which are democratizing public life, which are defending the common good and which are solving the daily problems of the citizenry. In front of a government that's not operational, the municipalities are giving their faces. And that's why we do things. We do things like in Barcelona, for example, we've already connected to our own electrical network to get rid of Endesa. That's why we're making feminist policies that are pioneers across Europe. For this reason, because we are on the coast of the city and not of the lobby, we have approved that 30 percent of the nine promotions deprived of housing hold affordable prices. We've done it in Barcelona, we've approved it in Tordera, and I'm convinced they'll be coming in a lot and a lot more municipalities. Because municipalism, right now, is the main transformative force that this country and the Generality have, but often, instead of helping, what they're doing is blocking, complicating life and taping. And with this reality on the table, I can't be asking you, Mr. Torra, whose side are you on? If it's on the side of life, which is the side of the city, or if it's on the side of the lobby. Will he complete the gatherings or take advantage of the Generality to campaign for election? Because among other things in the government, certain measures are taken and taken at the end of time, certain actions, sometimes by action, such as the surmounting of immovable emptiness, instead of putting them as social habitation; or others by inaction, do not attend to the joints in the need to put more effect of Mossos d'Esquadra, which would say that they do not respond to the needs of the citizenry. They respond, in one case, to lobby interests, and, in another case, they respond to party and electoral interests. And I can give you more examples where they fall back into symbolism and where their speeches play with reality and with their facts. While you're talking about getting Costa Brava to remain declared a biosphere reserve... that's what we have for one thing. And, for another, what do they do? They hide the eyes ahead of projects that Begur, Llançà, Cadaqués, Tossa de Mar, Palamós, Palafrugell want to build us habitats. On one side, they expand the Alt Pirineu Natural Park, but on the other side, they are not clear about banning tungsten extractions in Salau, in the same natural park, against its people and against what the Salau platform says. While on one side they talk about sustainable tourism, what do they do on the other side? I bet for the game tourism with the new Barcelona World, disguised with a change of name. On the other hand, its mobility policy is more about the unfolding of lanes than it is about the betting of new transport infrastructures such as the train to Tarragona and which would be an element of territorial balance. And the case of the Lands of the Ebre is already the bloodiest of all. The Lands of the Ebro, the Oblivious Lands. It's the only territory that's still losing people, and they're over the middle of the day. You have shown no interest in reversing it; in fact, there is a strategic plane of the Lands of the Ebro that is locked in a cove and appears to be under the seven claus because from there it does not come out. And for the most part, they buried the new hospital project that had been planned for years. In fact, it was planned since the tripartite, imagine if years ago. Is that how you take care of life? I'll tell him what it means for us to take care of life, because that's not it. I will give you an example, but tomorrow we will do a lot more, when we talk about the motions for resolutions that we have recorded, and so I will now do a brushstroke. Imagine a family, a family of a mother with two girls. The little girl can either say Núria or she can say Fatima. He'll have equal opportunities, no matter what the postal code of the place where he was born and the place where he lives. Until she's three years old, she can go to a public school in Bressol, because the Generalita will fulfill her responsibility to finance her part. When you move to P3 you'll be running a school that won't be segregated either by language, sex or income, and, if you like, you'll have a feeding scholarship. And besides, she and all her companies have an education that will be feminist, that will empower them to fight against patriarchy, that is killing us. One incis I want to do here: we are asking that it is transferred from one to the next all the resources of the State Plan against Masclist Violences to gatherings and communities. Mr. Torra, I'm asking if you will be with us claiming this transfer of a single copy. We'd love to know. Hold on to the incisor. Now let's think about the big girl. The granddaughter wants years, can go out for the night quiet, without for assaults. And, besides, he can go to college, because he doesn't have to pay the highest taxes in Europe. And this family will not see the drama of the denunciation of the way forward, because there will be no people without houses or houses without people. This is in our hands. And here again open another parenthesis: we have already said that we will not support Pedro Sánchez's assumptions if he does not pull the law forward to limit the prices of the logger. I ask you again: will they be on our side, pressing, to get it? Parentheses. And maybe the mother, at a given time, will have economic problems, but she won't be anxious because she can get the guaranteed income from citizenship, not like now, which has only approved a 5-percent of all that has been asked and is doing a bad job. What's going on with the citizenry income is a shame and I can fix it now. [[Greetings.]] And the way, and with that, the way she lives so close, but they can't take care of her, because they're working all day. And you won't have to wait for years and years for a place in a public residence, because these stories know many times how they end up, sad. This is to take care of life, and this involves making policies that are clearly compromised with 99_per_cent, and listening to the social movements from the PAH to the Great Pensioner, for sanitation or public education, of the "We want to embrace, the feminist struggle, anti-militarism, those who defend the water and the territory. Catalonia has an associate and social fabric that is a pride and that is pure life. Therefore, they must be heard. If you talk about life, what you have to do is invest in the present and in the future. Good words no longer served because we have listened to them too often. For what we are listening to, because then we are listening to interventions, we can come to a great social agreement. Now, I insist, one thing is the words and the other thing is the facts, and we'll see what we can agree on and what we can't. What they call social presuppositions, Mr. Torra, that have to tend to social something more than the last name, that we already know. Certainly, unstabilized Spain also want to warn, it means to get 500_million euros less to be able to pull forward social policies. That's also what it takes to specify it. And I can also negotiate a new funding system, because the current one is absolutely unfair. But we can also do a lot from Catalonia: we can do a tax reform, which does not exactly go in the line of lowering taxes to the casinos, but goes in the line of pushing taxes to the rickets, not to the middle classes, to the rickets. And, in addition, a plan to fight the tax fraud, which you have already named. There was one, what happens is that I don't know if it got lost in some way. And I'm done. During the process, you repeated as a mantra the famous phrase of "we're in a hurry, and yesterday you put it back on the table. But, President, the time to speed up or to slow down as a result of party interests has ended with the weakness of the unilateral path. Now we cannot waste time because the hopes of so many people who have mobilized to defend their institutions, their rights and their freedoms are at stake. So let's get to work, yes, in the dialog table and in a clear-cut pact. We cannot waste time because our people need answers to the problems of everyday life. Call a social agenda change urgently. We can't waste time building a better future to rebuild Catalonia for everyone. And now don't confuse the "we can't waste time putting impossible terms that will only – only – put us in a more complicated situation. Finish it. President, now we have to stop, look at each other, recognize each other and get to work for the common good of the people of Catalonia. They emerge from their contradictions and listen to make, to fix a viable course to get out of this frustration. They don't generate any more false hopes, because people don't deserve it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.15.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. It is now the return of Mr Carles Riera to the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.16.0	Thank you, President. President Torra, we are not here today to debate your republican statements or your independenceist intentions. I'm going to say that, because we're not going to make reference to it again. Today we have come to debate his government's program and, above all, we have come to talk, to humbly talk about what has happened in the past few days and in the last hours in the streets of our country's towns and cities. And yes, President, indeed, as you said yesterday, self-criticism caldria. His government would have to do self-criticism for police charges, on a covert face, certainly, they would have to do so on a covert face, and not on a sideline, but on a systematic basis. Certainly, for this path we will not go anywhere, I assure you. Between Saturday and October 1st, a new political cycle began. Disappointed, the town was called to prevent the fascism, animated by the reactionaries present in this chamber, disparage the thousands of people beaten the first October of the year passed by the Bourbon police of the « to get them. Disabte were the same Mosos the ones in charge of repressing us. At the end of one year of that day of struggle for the democratic reason, this same people has multiplied by villains and streets throughout the country demanding that our institutions recover the heart, firmness and resolution that they have lacked to complete the democratic mandate comes out of the ballot boxes, conscious, as Gandhi said, that the submission of a people is maintained more for the poor ones than for the oppressor's strengths. And, president, his location in the State, which yesterday asked for an answer on the self-determination of Catalonia, has already finished his appeal, Moncloa has again said no. Will you look for a new pretext to pull the pilot forward or will you already do an act of sobriety? And about your government's program, we have to say, ras and curt, that we have to hold it from time to time. Until today, you are perfect administrators of Catalan autonomy, which is one of the main instruments of the State to keep the 78th rule in force in Catalonia. With the management and development of your autonomy you are keeping alive the gear of the 78th Regime. And today, therefore, they are part of the problem. Until today we have not seen any political action by the government that indicates a real will to make effective the democratic break with the State, which would entail the result of the referendum of '1 October and, thus, start the process of building the republic. On the contrary, what we have seen is a continuation of the Constitution, the Statute and the decisions of the Spanish judiciary. We have seen neither a single, nor an initiative to challenge the Spanish State or IBEX 35 companies to control the territory, the basic services and resources or the main infrastructures. On the contrary, we see that your government is trying to bridge the gap with the companies that, from October 3rd of last year, have moved their own out of Catalonia, and talking and negotiating with the PSOE government that kept the repression intact and kept the refusal to speak of self-determination intact. And, finally, we have witnessed the unfortunate spectacle of reconciliation between the Department of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior of the State. In a few months, the Government of the Generalitat has gone from calling for the withdrawal of the "Piolins to be congratulated and coordinated with the security bodies of the State that attacked us on September 20 and October 1. And what is still worse: we have found that the repression on the republican movement and anti-fessist dissent is already guaranteed without the need for the intervention of the National Police Cos of the Civil Guard, we are already dealing with the Mosso d'Esquadra, as we could confirm the 29th of September and on the recent day of '1st of October. The Squadron Mousses are not our police, as you like to say, they are also the security features of the Spanish State in Catalonia. You won't have enough to authorize a fascist demonstration, but you protected it by attacking anti-fessist protesters, and this October 1st you have again assaulted independent protesters to guarantee the rule and autonomous order. Mr. Buch, please, by dignity and respect for the people that October 1st endured the police shots to defend the ballot boxes and now they have to endure the shots of the police that you command. And learn from the history of Europe: when fascism is respected, it grows; when it is tolerated, it escapes everywhere. In our concept of democracy, fascism does not fit; and in yours, counselor? In our republic, fascism is fought and expelled, yes, it is eradicated. Out of respect for the long anti-feixist memory of our country, I resigned. And, President, what would you think, said in the past, of a profound democratic reform of the Cos dels Mossos d'Esquadra, starting, for example, by the dissolution of Brimo? President, as we have seen since the so-called Diada, September 11th, the republic movement is intact. And so we are confirmed by the fighting days of September 20, September 29, and October 1. And the republic movement legitimately demands that this Parliament and its government do the act of sovereignty necessary to carry out the outcome of the October 1 referendum, now, not after the sentiments – now. And to complete this mandate, as a political act of democratic rupture with the Spanish State, an act of self-determination that does not give to our sovereignty and to begin the construction of the republic. And today, you are not planting any act of sobriety nor are you prepared to do it. Look, between the republic movement and self-determination, there's a beginning. Between October 1st and the breakup with the State there is a barrier. And this beginning and this barrier today are you. And this barrier will help us overcome it, as we already wanted to do October 1 and October 3. Because this people will finally gain independence, either with you or, if you like, against you. And we're willing, with the people, to jump this barrier. And I've got a lot of things going on here, remembering that the prison keys hold them, and that maybe the time will come when the people will demand that you release our prisoners and our political presses. President, you are pleased to speak of this legislature as the step of the restoration of the Constitution, but you have not returned anything. They have incomplete their electoral commitments and have deceived the people. And before I constituted, I remember, President, that I should dismiss the 78th rule in Catalonia. And that, which is what the people demand of us, you are not doing. And I also want to remind you that the new constitution emanates from a new popular and sovereign institution and not from self-government. The truth, present in the bodies of the people of the first of October, generates police violence, written rape, verbal rape of those who can only maintain their domination over our birth. But daily structural violence, which is the mother of all rapes, we have it every day in the economic exploitation of millions of workers, we have it in the insolent cowardice of the powerful and we have it in the corruption of public powers. And also, one of the arguments that you make for not doing any act of sovereignty is that it is necessary to expand the social base of independence. Okay. Seeing and listening to your government program, let's say they're in the opposite direction, exactly in the opposite direction. They prepare autonomous assumptions that comply with Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, condemning social policies to see how the payment of the debt goes forward, assuming the fiscal rules imposed by the State, condemning our country to an unjust and anti-social taxation. Accept the small springs more than 1,400_million euros in four years as it gave shame of the State. Why don't we have some assumptions that go with these barriers? What are the unfair regulations of the State and the European Union? , what do just social policies allow? The answer is that before they disobey, they prefer to manage autonomous misery. On the other hand, they continue to pay millions of euros to concerted, elite and sexist schools, keeping intact the machinery of school segregation in Catalonia. They continue to extend the universities of the abst of the popular classes, keeping intact the machinery of the inequalities that universal access to the universities pretended to pal·liar. Maintain an emergency health care system and two-speed waiting lists, depending on whether you access the public or private system. A private system, on the other hand, that continues to negotiate at the expense of managing public services and resources. They support a labour market based on precariousness, temporality and exploitation, without doing anything about a new system of labour relations based on the labour and economic rights that the working class has won with so much struggle and that the Spanish succeeding governments have dismantled, i.e. step by step, with their complicity and collaboration. They defend a fiscal policy in which the working class continues to pay more than the rich; in which the banks, rescued with public money, earn more and more benefits every day and stick to our faces. They continue to allow denunciations and not to touch the big speculators of the housing market; they continue to allow the vacant real estate speculation with the tourist speculation, destroying the territory, making the public space uninhabitable and expelling the popular classes from our barrels; while, for example, destroying our coast continues, as for example in the case of the Costa Brava, and you do not endure it. They tolerate the presence of the Spanish army in educational spaces and their maneuvers in our territory. Continue to maintain the privileges of large enterprises that manage basic population sub-administrations: water, gas, electricity, transport and communications. And today, in Catalonia, being a woman is to sustain the effects of its retailing on a daily basis; to be young is synonymous with job insecurity; to be an immigrant is to endure institutional racism on a daily basis; to be a LGBTIQ is still the driving force behind discrimination and rape in all spheres of life. We must remember, too, that four years ago the adoption of the LGTBI Law and denounce the total lack of political will to make it effective. It may be necessary to remove the persons responsible for this blockade and to make the implementation of the law effective. Look, there's someone who says this company is broken. The real fracture is that you increase every day with your conservative policies, applying without any real will of sobriety, the guidelines of the troika and keeping most of the population in precariousness. And we don't have time for processes or processes; we have our lives. We demand a plan against the poor; we demand that childhood, coming from where it comes, be treated justly and inclusively; we demand that they already expropriate empty dwellings and make them available to the public housing stock for the benefit of the popular classes; we demand equality of men and women in labour relations; we demand a minimum wage of EUR 1,200 to begin to dignify labour relations in this country; we demand that they end up with school concerts, which cause segregation, and a public, free and universal education system from school to university. We demand that the most wealthy pay more, with a social and fair taxation; we want a social and solidary economy; we demand a single network of public health; we demand that speculative and extractive attacks on our territory take place. And for all this, president, we give you and your government that political will and self-determination to put life at the center and face profound structural transformations in our society. And once again we repeat that if our infrastructure and our basic resources are in the hands of the companies of IBEX 35, there will never be a republic in Catalonia. Let us expropriate them, and lay these resources in public hands, for justice and for sovereignty. From our compromise with the popular unit that made it possible the day of struggle and vagaries of October 3, which today we remember and demand, we will continue to struggle for the social, economic and political rights that our people deserve. We will also do so from municipalism, from fighting municipalism, from gatherings that also fight for justice and sovereignty. Rights that we will have to settle over the walls of the Constitution and the State, over the 78th rule, over the oligarchies and the Catalan elites with whom you still have so many commitments and so many endogenous complicitys. The struggle for rights, including the right to self-determination and independence, takes us to the republic. If yesterday they listened to what the people said... before yesterday, the people at the gates of Parliament, they said: "Desobeixin or resign. And we listen to him and take a good note. It is now clear that the breakup with the 78th Regime will materialize. They are not an obstacle and obey the people, who are better ordered. In view of the events, we see that the people are prepared. Who may not be prepared are the Government, or the PDECAT, or Junts per Catalunya, or the Republican Left of Catalonia. I'm not counting on us for the governance of this autonomy; I'm not counting on us for the stability of this government. We're keeping our red tab up, President. Our mission is not to contribute to the stability of autonomy; our mission is to break democracy with the Spanish State and with autonomy, our mission is to fight for social, economic and political rights, with feminism and ecology, with which we will build, with a sense of doubt, the true republic. We're committed to it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.17.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr.Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.18.0	Thank you very much, President. In 2011, Mr. Quim Torra paid tribute in Montjuïc to the Badia brothers, renowned gunmen of Philonazi ideology; in 2014, he did the same with Mr. Cardona, a character of moral catadura very similar to those mentioned above. I do not discover anything new, they are already known episodes, but I think it is important to remember them, because to me it still seems absolutely inconceivable that in another community any of Spain could be chosen as president someone with such hobbies, it is absolutely impossible to me, but we must remember among other things because, if we do not understand the personality, hobbies and way of understanding the life of Mr. Quim Torra, we cannot understand what is happening today in Catalonia. Today, in Catalonia, we don't have a president of the Generalitat, we have an ultra activist. Today, in Catalonia, we do not have a ruler who governs for all, we have a radical agitator. And that has consequences for tackling and addressing a general policy debate. We have a parliament that does not legislate; it is the one with the least legislative output, in what we are mandated to do, in history. And it is normal: they prefer street confrontation to parliamentary debate. We have a government that does not govern, it is the government, in a hundred days, of the smallest government production in history, exactly for the same reason as before, and we have severely affected coexistence. But let us return for a moment to the initial question that asked me: how is it possible for us to have such a president? What happened here? How is it possible that individuals who, individually, can behave honorably and with whom we can even share concerns in areas other than politics, in their collective behavior have been able to choose and justify a president who goes to tributes of gunmen with philonazi ideology? The answer to such a crucial question lies in the totalitarian seed. The totalitarian seed causes people to subject their entire scale of values, enteritious, to one they consider superior; in this case, the national construction, on behalf of which everything is allowed: in the name of the national construction you can trample freedom, in the name of the national construction you can trample equality, in the name of the national construction you can trample the law, in the name of the national construction you can trample the dignity of people, the consideration of human beings of political opponents. It's no coincidence that he called us beasts in human form, called us rats, bugs. You know it's wrong, inside you know it, but since it's subject to national construction, you allow it, you shut up and look the other way. That's the totalitarian seed. It is not by chance that they call us « colonists – a couple of plenarys ago I referred to this issue, let me deepen today – because behind the expression « colonists is the root of Mr Quim Torra's strategy. Why do they call us ‘ colonists? ' Because in the colonies – in the real colonies, Catalonia is not a colony – what was done to the colonists? The indigenous people made life impossible for them, reminded them every day that they were not in their land, that they were not in their home, so that, in the end, for the good or the bad, they would get away. I have for me that Mr Torra, always fully aware that they have neither the political power to achieve independence nor at all the capacity for international recognition, has decided that his strategy is to bitteren the lives of people, bitteren the lives of all Catalans and, ultimately, to get us to leave. There is a second reason why they call us settlers, and it is because the UN reserves the right of self-determination to colonies. Everyone knows that Catalonia is not a colony, everyone knows it, but they have to repeat it, because if they fail to convince people that Catalonia is a colony, they will never be able to convince them that Catalonia has the right to self-determination; that it has no right to self-determination, because it is obviously not a colony. Look, Catalonia is no colony, and it's easily demonstrable. I will not try to prove it by invoking concepts of international law. One day I did it in this plenary room and they started looking at me as if I were talking to them in Swahili; it usually happens to them when we talk about legal matters. I am going to save them the torment, and I am going to resort to more colloquial arguments, which fully justify that in Catalonia Catalans and Spanish we are the same and that, here, of colony, absolutely nothing. First of all, Mr. Torra, if Catalonia is a colony, how is it possible that an inferior being like me has colonized a superior being like you? That of being superior is given to you of pity, isn't that that of being a colony alone is and is part of your fertile imagination? Second question, a practically scientific argument, which shows that Catalonia is not a colony. This one's going to hurt, a supremacist like you, it's going to hurt, but I'm going to let him go without anesthesia, and I think... but I just have to do it. Look, you, physically, look a lot more like me than a Norwegian pertigo jumper. [[Rialles.]] It's just that you're very Spanish. We're a couple of Spaniards, both of us. [[Greetings.]] Really. I know it hurts, but you're very Spanish. What colony are you talking about? It's just that, although I hide it, it's very, very Spanish, like me; that's how little we have in common. No, Mr. Torra, Catalonia is no colony; Catalonia is part of the heart of Spain. "Catalanism means very Spanish; Spain is a conjunct of great regions, among them Catalonia. This was written by Valentí Almirall in 1880 – 1880–; Aznar had not founded the FAES. I don't know if they get it. "Of the Spanish regions, the richest and most esteemed is that of all known to the Catalan land. This was written by Antoni Bori and Fontestà in his legendary Lo trovador català, in 1892 – 1892. Was he from the 155th club, this good man, too? Catalonia is no colony; Catalonia has always been part of the best of Spain. What kind of aggravation are you talking about? What abuse do they complain about? From Pere Duran Farell to Samaranch, from Balmes to Prim, from Flotats to Marsé, from Fainé to Pau Gasol, there is no business, cultural, editorial, sports, political field in which the Catalans have not left our mark, leading Spain. They have not marginalized us, we have collided and we have co-designed, the Catalans, Spain. His arguments to refute the idea that Catalonia is not a colony shift between absurdity and delictability: absurdity, when some of his historians practically come to tell us that Cervantes founded Democratic Convergence hand-in-hand with Jordi Pujol; delictable, when they resort to supremacism, low passions, rancor. The ideology of Mr. Quim Torra, his ideology. Totalitarianism, its seed, is the most dangerous attitude we live here in Catalonia today. But there is another attitude, which is not so delectable, from the moral point of view, but when put at the service of the other it can be equally dangerous; it is the relativism of the Socialist Party. This relativism of the Socialist Party allows them, to maintain power, to swallow with everything, to accept anything, to close their eyes to the most serious, to accept octopus as a pet, whatever the situation. And it is that relativism that leads him to say to Mr. Pedro Sánchez, being so broad, that what has happened, I quote, in the last few days is not particularly serious. Or it is that relativism that leads Mr.Iceta to say so joyfully that when he sees Mr.Torra he enters tenderness and would take him to dinner. Don't I know where you see tenderness? I try, and I don't see his tenderness. Look, Mr. Iceta, you're a smart and brilliant man, but when you get equidistant you end up being a binder. [[Widow's remorse.]] Indeed, abandon relativism, because what you are doing is marginalizing a substantial part of the Catalan population. There are no conditions, Mr Miquel Iceta, for dialogue, there are no conditions. And they don't give themselves for a reason: because we have to pull out the totalitarian equation right now to be able to dialogue. And I tell you from the People's Party of Catalonia, that, as much as we were stigmatized – this had already been repeated on some occasion – we are protagonists of more than two hundred municipal pacts in Catalonia since the year 83. There is no party with that pactist tradition in municipalism, however much they say we do not dialogue. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, it is true, you – you – indeed, but we too. We have agreed with all the parties on some occasion, in this chamber, except with the CUP, as it is obvious and natural, on the other hand. But you can't talk at any price; you have to set some rules of the game: respect for the law, mutual loyalty, accepting that you can't sit down and chat with someone who is already imposing on you the outcome of the dialogue. But there is also a particularly serious attitude in what you pose: that you are turning your back on 53_per_cent of Catalans who did not vote for separatist options. With their attitude, they are breaking constitutional unity. And I'll tell you more..., and I was planting myself yesterday, while writing down this scheme, if I would say what I'm going to say now, because it has a clear component of self-criticism; but self-criticism is healthy. Look, if the constitutionalists can blame us for something to ourselves it is not not not having dialogue and pacted with nationalism; that we have done... Look: pacted Suárez, pacted Felipe, pacted Aznar, pacted Zapatero, even Rajoy, before the process, agreed a labor reform with nationalism. No, no, no, we've given in too much. If something can blame us – and if something can blame me, because I have heard it and received that message from many people – it is when someone has stopped me on the street... Catalans who feel Spanish and have told us that they have felt alone. I heard that. Those words we can blame them on us, and those do resound in my mind. That is why I want to transfer, on behalf of my group, all those people who have felt alone, compromising our word and vocation, who will never again feel alone. And that's why I'm moving you, Mr. Torra: we won't let you send your fanatized hordes to frighten people. Is that clear to you? We do not accept their threats; we will not tolerate them. Is that clear to you? Dismissed – dismissed. And I know they're strong words, I know they're hard words. And I cannot help but go back to a few words, too, which I formulated as the spokesman of my group on 27 October last year, talking about double reconciliation – because it is true, it is essential – between Catalans and between Catalans and the rest of the Spanish: "But it is necessary, to achieve the, that the totalitarian seed departs from public life. Mr. Torra must resign so that we can begin that reconciliation. And you, the rest of the deputies of the independence groups, change their president, form a government of real democrats, who accept the rules of the game, the separation of powers, who do not call more than half of the population colonists, who do not stir up the low passions, who do not call street violence in their public sufferings. Only then will we be able to recover. And it will be very difficult to get out of the jam that is destroying the best in Catalonia's history. To be able to seek again ways of understanding and agreement; indeed we are desiring it. Because, no matter how much they say, we are not settlers, we are Catalans, and we want to live in peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.19.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Then has the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.20.0	Good morning, President. President of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament who accompany or see us today, let me begin, one year later, a year later, recalling October 1, and do so with some textual phrases from political leaders of the State and the police in Spain those days. Mariano Rajoy: "There will be no referendum and I will do everything necessary for it. María Dolores de Cospedal : "By land, sea and air, our armed forces and the Civil Guard are located where the values of democracy and the Spanish Constitution must be protected. Iñigo Méndez de Vigo : « There are no ballot boxes, no ballot papers, no schools. The police of '1 October: "Where are the ballot boxes, bitch? Where are the ballot boxes? « He put the fuck in like there wasn't a morning and there were no balls: they pushed and pushed, we couldn't with them. And before so much indecency, and before so much violence, before the beats, before the peber gas, before the rubber balls, a simple answer from the people: hands rise, arms rise and a single cry: « We will vote, we will vote. Thank you, thank you, thank you to all that made it possible. Today, one year and two days later, we can only repeat one and the other: dignity, determination, immense pride of people. Valentia, resistance, democracy, freedom and self-determination. Thank you to everyone who made it possible. Especially thanks to all those members of the Government and Parliament who have brought us closer to independence than we have ever been before. Some members of the government who can't be here today. To some members of the Government, of the Bureau of Parliament, to some leaders of the entities who gave it everything to defend the right of Catalans to vote and who today suffer the cruelest repression of the Spanish State. But also in the hundreds, the thousands of volunteers who made it possible and the names of whom we should be able to repeat every day – every day – because they are great heroes of democracy, because they are an indispensable part of the history of this country. I can do it. We can't do that, because if we did justice quickly, we would fall on it, persecuted for a supposed justice, to defend democracy as in old times; those old times that we thought would never become more; that we thought it impossible for Europe to be contemporary and that we were more present than ever before in institutions, in justice and in the streets. Today we know that what happened a year ago doesn't go away. History has changed forever. October 1st is a point of no return, a day that changed everything. We were typing the freedom, and when the keys didn't give up. Now it's just – and this is just very complex – that this freedom is forever fem. From that day we can only go on a path, and this path is the republic. After that day we can only advance in the path of rights and freedoms. Since that 1st October, the vast majority of the citizens of this country feel sovereign to decide their democratic future, to decide where we want to be as a people, because no one else from outside tells us what we can do or what we can be, because no one else can reach us while we exercise our rights. And we cannot accept anything today – nothing – that is less than the exercise of self-determination. There's no way down. We are ready to talk to each other at all times – always – and with everyone. But not to go down, not to talk about 2010 states. We are not worth today's money or investments as the answer. That they pay us what they owe us, but they don't think, at any time, that they can buy us. In the answer to the solution to the Catalan problem there is only one word: self-determination. To decide, once more, with freedom, about our future. These days of October we're reliving the fucking times, the beginnings, the screams, the violence against the civilian population. And we're doing it with tears of rage. But also with the hope of whom you know, of whom you have already won a time, even if you don't finally win it, with the hope of whom you have no grudge but illusion, and with the conviction that there is only one way: that of democracy and pacifism. The State opted for violence to convince some citizens that they should continue to be part of the State. But the one who did that rape was to drive them out for good. October 1 was lost, and October 3 was the most palpable exhibition. October 3rd is, of course, the greatest proof until now of the defeat of the State, the day we were stronger and stronger and we gave ourselves the hands of men, women, young, great, children, entrepreneurs, workers, independenceists and non-independenceists, federalists, defenders of freedom. We're going to put up with the country together to say the least. And it was a lot. We were more than ever; many of those who were questioned for the reference, but also many that two days before they had not felt questioned for the ballot box, but they did see that they needed to give an answer to the violence. We went out on the street and we went home and decided to fight this barbarism. And, one time at home, we felt a monarch like he warned us that they would hit us more and more every time we wore it badly. They wanted to do it for us when we lost it already. October 1 was the day that the State lost power in Catalonia, the act of civil and peaceful disobedience that was seen in contemporary Europe in recent years. But they'll come over more. They will come no more, because the attitude of this State, for the moment, does not change – they may change the forms, but not the attitude – because they are refusing to let us decide our future with freedom. And we never resign and never resign. When you make history, when you're writing it, it's very hard to get a perspective. But if one thing we know for certain is that October 1st is the end of all victories, as Oriol Junqueras told us so many times. We are now in a new stage; in a transitional stage towards the republic that began between October Catalan and the new independence victory of 21 December; a stage that closed another one that had begun in 2010 with the feeling of the Statue and that brought us more than ever. That feeling that the Constitution broke so much that they defended it, lost the Catalan people and brought the struggle for independence to a point of no return. It meant a change in scale that many people lost their eyes and validated the thesis that was already being defended by an independent minority, together with the Republican Left. From that feeling, the process has been increasing, growing, accelerating, always of democratic and peaceful values, and always with ballots and votes as the preferred solution: popular consultations, 9-N consultation and 1 October referendum. Now we are here, building the new step, advancing a little further, because, as esteemed Jordi Cuixart says: "It is the revolution of time, where to persist is to overcome. From Esquerra we have already said and repeated that we will never – never – give up any democratic and peaceful way that leads us to the independence of Catalonia. We were born with this goal eighty-seven years ago and we won't abandon it until we see it alone. But we also said and repeated that we would find no better solution than to put the country's future in the hands of its citizens so that they can decide on the self-determination of the Catalan people and do so with ballots and votes. We are where we are because the rape of the State prevented that mandate from having an international recognizance. But that day, that warrant, has an incalculable value. We wanted to have voted freely and to be today the republic that we certainly deserve. But it's not like that, it's not over. In fact, October 1 is the principle of everything, it is the beginning of definite liberation. But we still have a lot of work to do. The State opted for repression, rape, arrest and 155. But it's obvious this way doesn't work to put up with us. They can buy time, but repression will never – ever – solve a question like Catalan. The State is the worst enemy of the State, and attacking the city's phone rights is ending its credit and creating the conditions to achieve the ultimate freedom. Today we're not the republic we wanted – not yet – and we're going to see it from the point of view of getting there. We've moved on more than ever; sure. We're more far now than we can ever be, and we don't want to go back. The Catalan people will feel up and any solution will have to be through the ballot boxes. They didn't put up with October 1st and they won't be able to put up with this republic. This process is irreversible, but we still have a question to solve: when? We will probably triage more time than we expected, what we would like or what the Catalan people deserve; in part, because at the front we have an authoritarian and anti-democratic state that is willing to use repression and violence for the unit of the kingdom, even though you are an enormous disgrace to it at the international level. But no one has any doubts about it: we will not stop moving forward until this republic is over. We don't promise smoke, we promise fetuses. And he does. We're the ones who make things happen. They charged us with a referral and we had a referral. We've been asking for a common strategy and unity of action, realism and persistence, less gesticulation and more strategy. It won't be easy or quick, but we will. Whoever I promise to do today is a naive or he's deceiving us. Now he plays constant work, time and determination. And who is tired of staying and resting, or looking for a network, without toilets, but Republican Left will persist and persist until we achieve our goal: to make an independent republic to make a better society. It is a long time ago that we are at this stage, and we would like to come out with the compromise, from this general policy debate, that we will already create a political table that will enclose and allow us to talk like a minimum to all the actors of civil society, economic agents and politicians who were present on October 3, to expose the different strategies and mark a general and common path. Because it's when we deal with this marching march, and it's when we deal with this marching march. And let me make an incis, for a moment. We're democratic and peaceful. With this way we have almost reached 50 percent of the Catalan population, we have been attracted and won the 1st of October, from pacifism, from civics, from democracy, from non-violence, with all the determination of the world and without; in Catalan, this is the way of the Republican Left. We do not share the images of dissabte nor the images of dilluns. We don't share them because they make a small move that has been and will be exemplary, a move that is huge, and that, in garrotations, is small and read, gone from the people, a little attracted, because we don't have to work for the most convinced, but always work for everyone. They do not represent the cover-ups, the hoods or the intimidations. We've never seen them before, at our convocations. We know what the winning road is. We don't make the mistake of believing that certain attitudes get us close to the goal, because they only send us back and lose support. And from here we always condemn all the rapes; from here we defend and always defend the action of the Mossos. But now, as always, they're still demanding. We want a police of the 21st century, of a modern country, that works from the forecast more than from the action. We work to live in a country where peaceful protest is not criminalized, where freedom of expression is guaranteed, where the Mossos follow the guarantee. We work to live in a country where the police do not commit excesses, and if they do, they analyze themselves without and assume the consequences, and they are correct, as the government has committed, without by. Do it. We work to live in a country where corruption enters prisons and fascism cannot camp freely on the streets; where democracy is not in Catlar, Lledoners or Puig de les Basses; where democracy is not attacking its citizens, but protecting them. Our project only contemplates excellence, an excellence in the service of each of the citizens of this country, think what you think, and vote what you vote. We're not here to win four votes, we're here to win freedom, and that's why he hasn't done it or done it to tell us the truth, too, when he doesn't like it. We need to talk to everyone again, to re-agree, to agree on a joint, shared strategy, taking the best spirit of September 20th, October 1st and October 3rd. Because when we're able to create these big consensuses and turn them into units of action, it's when we move the country forward, it's when we're absolutely unstoppable. And we can't do it alone, to integrate into the solution, into the way, also all those people who aren't independent. Seek the joint responsibility of the entire company to resolve the conflict between Catalonia and the State. It is a project with the will to question the whole country, because, frankly, it is just as much of us as we leave each school, whenever it is in accordance with democratic principles. We want to attract everyone to our project because it's an integrative project, everyone and everyone. For us the lessons of October 1 and 3 are clear and clear. We know that not everyone shares them, but we are convinced that the vast majority of the country shares the hope of what they represented, because it is the hope of democracy. And based on this spirit, we invite everyone, we sleep with everyone, to explain how we would like to carry out this mandate, with all the gain, with all the will, that I accompany us, to make the way folded, all together, as a people's sun. It unites us with the defense of freedom and of the fundamental rights, the struggle for social justice and the constant search for the best of living conditions and basic services. Who we calling can be stronger than this? For us, we have always explained, the social struggle is absolutely indestriable from the struggle for freedom. We are independent so that we can create a fairer, more freer society, with more rights, and with a city service state, and not with a state that goes against the city service. The republic is the eine, the initial and essential objective to build a fairer society, our goal since eighty-seven years ago. And social struggle, the stake for social policies is the best way to work for this republic, and also the best way to make us republicans. It's like working from the government, the parliament, and so are the assemblies, and from every space to becoming a modern, forward-looking society. The plan of government presented yesterday, which is ambition and solid, goes in this line. And, in this sense, our formula is well known: social policies to make republic, and republic to build a better society for everyone. And what's the way? From Desquerra many days ago we questioned ourselves, debated, sought the best of lives to face this new phase, to make the transition to the republic that we want and that we do not have today. Many days ago we sought the answer in this context of brutal repression, of general cause against independence, with companions in prison and exile, with hundreds – hundreds – of people persecuted for the State, and at the door of a trial that the Government and the President of Parliament can condemn many years ago. And, in this context, we believe that there are three fundamental axes for working. The defence of democratic freedoms; our cause is the cause of democracy and freedom. The State, in change, has taken the path of repression, and in order to destabilize independence and republicanism has carried its own right-wing state. But it's going further than that, it's going back without precedent, it's not responding to side events, but it's a clear strategy to limit us and, ultimately, to sub-meter us. It would take a step forward to defend all the freedoms and rights threatened. We must be the spearhead of the defense of all freedoms and rights threatened, and therefore we believe that we need to build a network of solidarity and shared struggles, such as feminist struggle, anti-fessist struggle, and so many others, combining as many actors as possible and accumulating forces. A network of solidarity that must cross borders and counter the altars and the strength with which the State acts. Second eix, the fight for justice for reprisals. That we constantly denounce this criminal procedure without guarantees; that we constantly denounce this general case against independence based on falsehoods, misrepresentations and lies, with maximum two: there was no rape and making a reference is not criminal. Despite this judicial farce, we'll get to where we can get that you're doing justice and that you're condemning the Spanish State, but at this point I'll be a little bit further ahead. And the third is social cohesion and economic progress. We govern republicanly and advance the republic through the achievement of new sobrieties that will make us more free. To hold government is essential to continue to advance, to advance economically, to defend social cohesion and to build the republic through republican policies. Let us teach the citizens that there is a way to govern for themselves and not against; for the people and not the economic elites. To defend the construction of a better country was directly related to the struggle against inequality, to the redistribution of wealth, to deepen in the social contract that allows the self-governing people and the opportunities necessary to be citizens fully free. Let's get right on our feet. The Government of Catalonia must continue to be an example of progress and support for families: work, school, health and housing– work, school, health and housing. And that's what we've been doing ambitiously since we recovered the institutions in the hands of 155. And we will continue to do so with a plan of government with a Republican vision, which speaks of social justice, cohesion, rights for everyone. More than a thousand measures to strengthen education, to guarantee decent work, to promote access to housing, to guarantee universal health, with a transversal gender perspective and a global country visit, which will have to be concrete in future assumptions, yes. And that's why we also place all the groups in the chamber to make it possible. You do it and you do it right. Who can be against this? Rule well is the best way to be more. The best way to convince, and convince is the shortest way to win. To make a republic is also to rule well and for everyone, to build a powerful and sovereign society in full capacity to develop its life. We have to govern republicanly and advance towards the republic through the achievement of new sobrieties that will make us more free. And all this through the internationalization of the Catalan cause and the mobilization – a fundamental and essential tool – and the joint action of institutions, entities, parties, civil society, with strategy and coordination as we have done so many times. We need to go back to self-criticizing and now work to trace the complicity we achieved in September and October of the past year. And yes, we have to be willing to vote again. To vote definitively for an internationally verifiable referendum and where everyone can go to vote freely without patience for their physical integrity, without by. Because we never get through the polls and it's with the ballot boxes that we've been through. We will never give up on our own, on our own, but let us strive for the best of them all: when we vote, we win. It was a while ago that I wanted to put up with a moment at a concrete point that will have my own days, weeks, maybe months. They meet again complicated days, difficult for the country, but finally you say that we also have to turn into opportunity. Judgement is not clear. We don't like it. It cannot be that we speak solely and exclusively of the reaction to an unfair feeling. We don't just prepare to react, we just press the State of today and from all walks of life. We cannot accept, as if we can't do anything, that there will be a sentence. We fight her, we denounce, we persist. Let's not let them get caught up in the fake report they've been trying to build without denouncing it one time and another, inside and outside. This feeling has to generate a high cost. The lies they have created, as well as the violence that they were able to use against the people, must bring them again – again – to absolute contempt. Only if this trial were to be celebrated should it be a major scandal in democratic Europe. Political conflicts cannot be resolved judicially; the Criminal Code cannot be applied to political parties, not to the 21st century, not to the beautiful mig of the European Union. It may require immediate release of prisoners every day and removal of all charges, because this is the only tolerable answer. And one more time we're not alone in this fight. The fight against repression and legal barbarism that we are patenting brings together today a large majority of our society. And in their complaint to involve everyone: the human rights defense entities, the jurists' colleges, the majority unions, employers, everyone who feels assaulted by this flagrant violation of the fundamental rights. Let them know, let me make it clear to everyone, that if they now accept this judgment against independence, the State will be legitimized to undertake a new one against whatever I disagree with their ideas. He did, he's doing it, and he's gonna do it again. Defending independence today from this attack is defending democracy, freedom and fundamental rights. In short, defend the state of law. Let's take advantage of the exile, the Euro MPs profit thousands of Catalans abroad, to say the least and clearly, and that everyone feels it: there is no crime, there is no crime. If this was a fair trial and not a political revenge, the defendants were seriously acquitted and declared innocent. And in fact, never – ever – would have entered the prison. No rape, no crime. Making a reference is no crime for this now some want to, need to modify the Penal Code. A false account has been created from the prosecution and the investigator judge with all the state apparatus behind; behind and at his service, police inclusive, distorting, lying, twisting the Penal Code, inventing and manufacturing. It's a political trial that's been premeditated since September 20 when they started to make the repression visible. We've seen everything: crimes that don't exist, invented reports, courts that don't correspond to them, manoeuvring because concrete judgments carry concrete issues, promotion of judgments, statements as witnesses after ending the investigation. They don't have enough to have a state and monopoly of force. They don't have enough to repress, beat, fine and pursue a whole movement that they have to use the machinery of the State to build the general cause against independence. But we won't shoot each other. In this trial we have to charge, we have to make the Spanish state end up on the bench of defendants. And you don't have any doubt that they'd end up there. Let's fight the sentence, explain to the world before and during the trial the injustice they are committing today. We make it difficult for the State to feel and, in any case, that it is the seventh international rebuttal. Don't ever give up anything; don't let any injustice pass, fight it all and take advantage of every step to expose them. And if, despite doing it all, it ends – as it seems badly to indicate – with an unjust feeling, it will be necessary that we rebel, that we rebel another time, that we do not one minute of his sentence, of his unjust sentence results in vain, that his injustice follows at the same time his condemnation, the condemnation of the State. We fight there, together and coordinated, with action unit and calling on the great majorities, with the action unit that brought us to '1 October and with the social majority of October 3, perhaps creating a new October. And explain to us. Let us explain that we may be cheating more than we want and that at one point we have been thinking; that we may not have won the first opportunity, as we have liked, and that we may not be running so much now, but that we never give up or stop moving forward; that we are more persevering than anyone else; that we will put all the cunning, yes, but also all the intelligence, and that we will get it, that we will invest every minute, every action, in effective movements to win. Too many gesticulations, too much to look at us again, too much movement in front of the gallery or more convinced. We need to do what you're doing to get us to the point of building an independent republic. Some of us are not here to win a few more votes from the independenceists, we are here to win the freedom of the country, and that's why we're never here to tell the truth, because we have the nicest dream: to make a new country for everyone – for everyone – a new country where no one is sober. And to be many, we need to map out a common and shared strategy, because when we are able to create these great consensus with unity of action, it is when we move the country forward and when we are unstoppable. Cal, from now on, complicity between the different actors, institutions and citizens. We're making a project that's attractive to everyone. And we build a better country, a better country for everyone, which takes the form of a republic, which takes the form of a Catalan republic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.21.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. Now, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Albert Batet has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.22.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. Many honourable President Torra, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, if you will allow me, I will begin by saying hello to those who are absent, who cannot be here today because they do not want to, but because they cannot, for the unjustified repression of their most fundamental rights, and who know that they follow us, that they follow us with attention from the prison and from the exile. And we also ask for respect for them. We ask to respect why, after hearing Mrs. Arrimadas, after hearing the stories that Mrs. Arrimadas left, they can't be here today to defend themselves, when what she would play is that they were exercising their rights in a full way as members of the Catalan Parliament. [[Greetings.]] We greet President Puigdemont, President Forcadell, Vice President Junqueras, Councillors Jordi Turull, Raül Romeva, Joaquim Forn, Dolors Bassa, Josep Rull, Clara Ponsatí, Toni Comín and Lluís Puig. Also Mrs Rovira and Mrs Gabriel, and Mr Jordi Cuixart and Mr Jordi Sánchez, president of our parliamentary group. Allow me also to begin by thanking President Torra. Thank you, President, for your speech yesterday. This parliamentary group and this Member, who already has a bit of experience..., not often, five years ago, but I have already seen that the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party has devoted a series of words to it... Institutional respect is always something very important of the Parliament of Catalonia and of the Presidency of the Generality. It seems to me that you yourself, not as the president, but as the deputy, here said: "The Spanish State and the People's Party have a problem with the presidents of the Generality at the length of the story, and made a rest; and so it is. And President Mas was a demon, and he was very, very, very painful. But then it turns out that President Puigdemont came, who was more demonic and with whom. And then you came, which is more demons, with what and with what force and with what you convince. Therefore, maximum tranquillity; their problem is not our problem. We thank them for yesterday and for all the strength and energy. Today it's 3 October – today it's 3 October – today it is. Just a year ago, the country was through, and it stopped because we had just suffered an episode of brutal repression, which thousands of Catalans and Catalans went out to the street to say the least. They tried to silence us, they tried to raise our rights, they tried to prevent us from celebrating a referendum, they tried not to vote, they secreted votes and they stole ballot boxes. But before that repressive attitude, as President Torra said yesterday, impromptu of a state and a democratic police, we showed unity and dignity. Together we rose up, together we made it possible, together we defended the dignity of the people of Catalonia. That unity and this dignity is the compromise that the Juntas Parliamentary Group calls for for Catalonia to make the Catalan Republic effective, because we are the majority, because it is possible and because it is possible now. Today we are 3 October, and today too, just a year ago, this day, the king of the Spaniards, Philip VI, in a deceptive and injuring speech, resigned from his duties and set himself at the front of the « to get them. It was the rape of the security forces against the Catalans who were going to vote on October 1st. He encouraged the powers of the State to maintain repression, and today we can say that this repression has not only remained, but also increased: today we have more pressure, more exiles, more accused, in short, more persecuted, with all the powers of the State conjured up. From that day, on October 3, the king of the Spaniards, in five minutes, and you deserved that in five minutes, he, all alone, in five minutes, was able to get that the day of today's 8th of every Catalan suspended the Spanish monarchy and six of every one put it a zero. In five minutes, he, all alone – he has a lot of merit – the king excavated the monarchy as never before and excavated the republic's consent. Thank you, thank you very much, we are very grateful to you. Because yes, because we voted in a referendum, a referendum that was about self-determination, because above all it was about dignity and democracy. And yes, from that day on, a democratic conflict, a conflict between the Democrats at the polls and the apparatuses of the Spanish State, that of the pieces of '1 October, the one of 155, that of the toga blow. Because, even though the king, the law or the tripartite of 155 do not recognize it, voting is the only way to resolve political conflicts. In fact, the same tripartite 155 recognizes it. To see if you know who the quote is: "I formally request the holding of a referendum, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of such a legitimate demand, so in reason, with such vigorous support, we cannot even imagine that a democratic government opposes and rejects it– Mariano Rajoy, May 2006, Congress of the Deputies, president of the People's Party. Or let's continue with the 155 tripartite: "The references to independence must be able to be made and, in fact, in advanced democracies can be made. Who are the rules? The question must be clear, the quorum must be, and the result must be, more than half the vote plus 1 vote – Mr. Miquel Iceta, at the 2012 election campaign. Mr. Iceta, I assume you ratify your words. Or has he changed his mind? It's just... [[You're looking for the bottom and the rialles.]] Ah! Is Spain no longer an advanced democracy? Is this the opinion that you have changed, that Spain is no longer an advanced democracy? It's just... clearly, the rules we made just a year ago, Mr. Iceta, and it was what you proposed. Do they accept the results? Do you accept the majorities that were approved at the October 1st referendum? So then, why of the European Constitution reference, that there was less participation, with a 41_per_cent, they accept the result, Mr Iceta? [[Greetings.]] The results..., to the reference of '1 October there was a 42_percent participation; to the European Constitution, a 41. Esconti'm, they're still fair. And, obviously, Mr. Iceta perhaps, and with his speech, he does not remember that they voted for 155, which gave support to the suspension of this Parliament of Catalonia. And finally, the next date. During the motion of censure a few months ago, Mr. Albert Rivera told the Lord of Ciutadans, who reiterated by active and passive, that Albert Rivera..., that they had to make elections, because the problems had to be solved at the polls, that the Lords of Ciutadans... [[Widow's remorse.]] Do you subscribe to the words of your leader? That the problems have to be solved at the polls? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] The problem, ladies and gentlemen of 155, is that we should always vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.23.0	Quiet, and please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.24.0	It can always respect the results that emanate from the ballot boxes and, later on, it can always respect those that do not agree with the majority. And that's what Catalans and Catalans did on October 1st: they went out to vote and defend the ballot boxes. And the polls talked, and this is the warrant. And that's the mandate he's asking all the deputies and deputies of Juntas for Catalonia, united and determined to make it possible. And where do we find each other? We have a republic voted on October 1st, proclaimed on October 27th, initialled on December 21st, but constantly denied for the repression of the State, a repression that is no longer a fucking thing, but through the judicialization of politics. The 30th generation is deconvoked a ple to invest the legitimate president, the president Puigdemont. Later on March 12, the Spanish State prevented the investiture of Jordi Sánchez, despite the UN Human Rights Committee's statement calling for the political rights of our chairman of the parliamentary group. Later, candidate Jordi Turull was hired for an investment debate; it was also a way of breaking up with the State, the CUP's lords, that day, one of the most striking days that is remembered in the Parliament of Catalonia. And finally, when President Torra was invested on May 10, they continued to violate the rights, preventing imprisoned and exiled councilors from being appointed councilors; another time repression. And before all this, what can we do? They can mourn us, they can complain us, say that this is Madrid's fault, or just let it run. But no, that's not what we want to do, and that's not what the people of Catalonia ask of us. Catalans and Catalans are asking us to apply the result of the referendum; as the president of our parliamentary group in Jordi Sánchez says, "the referendum is not a legal, but moral and political mandate, and this link is much more intense – much more intense – than any legal mandate. So, what's the people asking for? That we do not surrender, that we resist, that we persist in the implementation of the October 1 mandate, that we maintain our unity. We guarantee that the thirty-four deputies of Junta for Catalonia will maintain this unit, because this Parliament is seventy deputies of the Republican majority, and that is why I guarantee that the deputies of Junta for Catalonia will seek to maintain and expand this unit. That is why today, in a general policy debate, is a good time to reflect. The first step in the implementation of the October 1 mandate was to form a government and put an end to 155; so we did. The second step was to formulate a plan of government, and so we also did: President Torra presented us with a plan with four axes, two spheres of action and three objectives, and what commitments we can reach. The government plan carries more than a thousand concrete measures and more than three hundred follow-up indicators to prove that we are fulfilling what we promise. And what we're committed to is governing for people and with people. And the first compromise is to guarantee the rights and rights of Members, as this House voted yesterday, in favour of the committee's opinion. That's why we can guarantee that making a republic means resisting and persisting on the path we started. But not only that, but he also wants to say, first of all, to make a better, more cohesive country, as President Torra said yesterday: "We are fully committed to people. This means linking republican values with civic, social and national rights. We must apply, as President Torra said, the social agenda, which has the virtuoso circle between efficiency and equity, this union between republican values and an economy that equals all and all and identifies the citizen of Catalonia, making us proud of the respect of diversity of origins, the singularity of gender and territorial sensitivities. Whether we have voted or not, whether we are Republicans or not, it is unquestionable that the citizens will feel identified with our proposals, and our proposals will come to terms with a shared republic. If we want to make a new country, a better country, we need to improve politics, the economy, society. Because a better country doesn't mean just a richer country, but above all a more socially just country. Social justice is the greatest wealth that Catalonia can have. And that's all we can do and we can do if we keep moving along the way of the republic. That's why we defended the Catalan Republic. Mirin, you have to look for many dichotomys in Catalonia – many – especially the lords of Ciutadans. The only dichotomy in Catalonia, the lords of Ciutadans, is between the sign and the rauxa, it's between the sea and the mountain; if they were in Valls I would say it's between the Vella and the Young Colla. [[Rialles.]] We can only be if we keep ourselves united in diversity – we can only be if we keep ourselves united in diversity. That is why we ask you, Lords of Ciutadans, and we warn you – and we warn you– [[remorse of the voice]] I made it clear to them that they would not – they would not –, we would not allow them, they would not divide us, they would not divide Catalans and Catalans. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] The one that's artificial to Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.25.0	Quiet, please, respect who you're talking to right now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.26.0	...is the division. What is natural is diversity, and so on, the discrepancy, and so on, the competition, constructive and healthy. You were born to divide us, you were born against linguistic immersion, you want to separate children and children who speak Catalan from children and children who speak Spanish. Against the model of the Catalan school, against TV3, his leader said on the other day, precisely to the program of The Mornings of TV3, against the Catalan communication media, against, against, against... Escotti'm, they will not achieve it. If the culture of the « no, if the champions are the ones of the CUP. They will not succeed, always against, against, against. And feeling it this morning, Mrs. Arrimadas, it's funny... – feeling it this morning, it's funny –, listen'm, the only one who talked about the monotheme is you. If you make repeated monolegs from The Comedy Club, [[applause]] It only speaks to us about the monotheme: that if Frankenstein, if Matrix, that if the « xiringuite, if the « neverendum, if the « commands– now the « commands, now only use the word « commands. Listen to me – listen to me – if the ‘greatest syringuite that has been created with the process are you – you! [[Greetings.]] You are the "greatest citizen who has been created with the process of Catalonia, who thanks to the process are thirty deputies and cast, lords of Ciutadans. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] The grooms. And everything you say that we're not conscious...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.27.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.28.0	...everyone who says that we are not aware, that it has not happened I do not know what, that I do not know how many, I do not know fifths, that they only complain and that everything against, all against, what Mrs. Topped up this morning. But, listen – listen – but what proposal do you make? What project do you have? If they don't propose a solution, it's just a complaint. [[Widow's remorse.]] They have no alternative. Escoltin, the Catalan economy – the Catalan economy – [[remorse of the voice]] It's been growing this second quarter. Industry employment is growing by 9.3_per_cent. This September – yesterday the data came out – the weather dropped, and that did not happen for years. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, in September, he dropped the weather, ugly years that didn't pass. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, maybe because he doesn't rule in the joints, you, because maybe they don't manage anything. But fighting against the dark has been one of the strongest policies that the Government of the Generality has made these last few years, at the gatherings and congresses and at all social and economic entities. [[Greetings.]] And this month of September, it's down. Maybe you don't like them, because they want you to be all bad, but that's not it. And they deny reality, they deny reality. Look, even if they deny so much the reality that they disagree with the People's Party, because Mrs. Arrimadas sees here, says that there are no political prisoners and it turns out that the People's Party, at the Congress of Deputies, its members of the People's Party, their Germans, have entered a motion of proposal to the Senate to debate on Catalan political prisoners. Settle down, please! Be in agreement with each other if there are or have not been policies. Miri, we defend the Catalan Republic because we want a Catalonia rich in diversity, transversal, plural and just. We want the values to be maintained and expanded in position, for the people and with the people. This "for people and with people is the starting point for all that has to come. People are the central axis of our political action. The Catalan Republic is to be built from the institutions and from the street, with confidence, in communion, from the Council for the Republic, the Lliure Space of Europe, from the Civic and Social Forum Constituent in Catalonia. And, as Jordi Cuixart would say, "Remember that in the revolution of time resistance and persistence is victory, and it is obvious that we are diverse, and it is obvious that we think differently – it is obvious. [[The timer laughs.]] There are political parties, there are candidatures that think and act differently, and that is not negated necessarily, that is. And if we're able to come to terms with what we've done over the last few years, that makes us move forward. Mrs. Albiach spoke: "It is the division that exists between the republican forces... Listen to me – listen to me – Mrs. Albiach, I don't know if you are the most suitable to talk about division. [[Funnel veils]] because his head of the list, the candidate for the presidency of the Generality, has prayed, Mrs Albiach. Its chairman of the parliamentary group has asked, precisely because you do not agree. Therefore, the compromise of clarity also apply to yourself. Mirin, from the plethora of investiture of President Torra we have government, which was very much claimed: "We need government, an effective government, it is necessary, there must be effective government, there must be government, etc. We have government. 155, theoretically, is no longer in force, even though there's a record every day, huh? They want it to be applied. And the PP doesn't rule Madrid anymore. I, tanmateix – and tanmateix –, the government of the PP does not govern Madrid, but so much rides, climbs both Isabel and Fernando; so much rides, rides both Mariano Rajoy and Pedro Sánchez. That's the reality. Yesterday itself..., because it has not been noticed, because it is not known – yesterday itself – President Torra extended his hand, made a proposal, always based on the dialog. And in less than two hours... - that's right, quick, huh? "In less than two hours the government's spokesman came out to say no, that no and that no, obviously, beneficent to Mr. Iceta." Even so, the tripartite of 155, among them, gather so much, appreciate so much, that Minister Grande-Marlaska announced that he will decorate Mr Millo, the government delegate who allowed the repression of '1 October. The Socialist Party will decorate Mr Millo: the tripartite of 155. They have no shame – they have no shame! Or Minister Celáa, who this same week reiterated her support for the performances of October 1. And you, Mr. Iceta, who always said that you already warned us, didn't you? , who said he was already warning us that this would happen – he was already warning us. Well, so, see, did you know that, what would happen to that? Did you know that October 1st they were going to hit the citizens of Catalonia or didn't you? Did you know that there was no justice in the Spanish State and that it acted in a partial way? Did you know that in less than twenty-four hours the Government of the Government would be obliged to compare before the National Court and put them in prison? Did you know that they would not let them invest and that they would not respect the results of 21 December and that they would not let them invest the presidents they proposed three times? Mr. Iceta, did you know all this? Oh, yeah? And the separation of powers where is it? Why, of course, if I knew, explain to me the separation of powers, Mr. Iceta, if I did? [[Greetings.]] Look, the margin is over – the margin is over – the patience is over. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] What are you waiting for? What do they propose?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.29.0	Quiet, and please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.30.0	The facts of dilun and dissabte make it very clear, and surely you do not like them, but that's it: people are there– people are there. It is important to value the great mobilization, persistence and resilience of the people of Catalonia. Because what they've done to us for a year could have been worse. People are there. Don't let them wait for us forever. And they give us a message: "Let us not wait forever. If there is no proposal on the part of the Socialist Party, the Catalan Government, as President Torra said, will act and act with determination. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For this reason, together for Catalonia today, here, we commit ourselves to making a better country, we understand that the best mechanism would be with full sovereignty. Meanwhile, the government rules. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, listen to me, I just need to see the press wheels of each government's dimarts and the actions that are fan, multiple, the only one that may not please you, but the government rules, listen to me. [[Greetings.]] They are committed to fighting repression and fascism. Never – never – allow and accept the use of violence and always – always – defend institutions in a civic and peaceful way. And we will do so with democratic radicality, which means respecting the vote of the people and the position of each and every one of the minorities. And we'll break our faces for freedom of expression, we'll break our faces for freedom of press, we'll break our faces for freedom of demonstration – the reason for which the two Jordi are in prison – we'll break our faces for freedom of assembly, ideological freedom and human rights. Because we, together for Catalonia, with all the humility of the name, with all the generosity, but with all the firmness, we, who come from a transversal movement, which is not very heterodox, let us say, our origin. [[Funnel veils]] It is clearly very cross-sectional, also from an ideological point of view, so we try very hard in time to get the unit. And united, because we need all of us – we need all of us. Because to make it possible for us to all men, not against each other, that if one has more and the other has less, and etcetera. Because if we go against each other, we're doomed to failure. We need all of us, companies and companies. Because, to make it possible, we all need, because there's no one left. And to do so with dignity, which means working for the restitution of President Puigdemont, which means working to defend our institutions, which means working to defend our rights, all with one objective, with determination, to make the republic effective – to make the republic effective – which we know will not be easy, which we know is very difficult. October 1st was also very difficult and we got it because we were together. And we're determined, and we're willing to pull it out. That's why we conjure ourselves to do it, because we're the majority and because we're the majority to do it now. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.31.0	Thank you, Mr. Batet. Now, once we're done with the interventions, and as long as I've been asked to take a break, we'd take this 30-minute break, so, up to two-quarters of one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.32.0	Let's resume the session. Then, to answer the parliamentary groups, has the word, again, the very honorable president of the Generalitat Mr Quim Torra. When you're ready, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.33.0	President... very good morning to everyone. I'd like to start by remembering today's special day. A year ago on October 3rd, a day that showed that this country can't get hit, that this country will always be at the expense of democracy and that this country when it wants to give an answer the woman, gives it in a consensual way, because we were thousands of Catalans that we concentrated that day, that day we put up with the country. And against a new exercise of an exemplary democratic demonstration, that night we did not believe the one we listened to for our televisions, because that night came a speech, the speech of the King of Spain..., which I remember – and we have already commented on it several times – that still did not apologize for a speech that used violence against which precisely the people of Catalonia had manifested themselves, that day had manifested itself. And I also remember the words of President Puigdemont's answer, that's not it, and I think we should still say: "So – so – still less. And so I'm starting to respond to each of the groups. And I'd like to make a special thank you to all the groups; I think that except – and will forgive me – the spokesman of the People's Party, eh? – we will talk about his intervention – but I would like to thank all the groups, in change, for a hard time when he has quite a lot, but a lot and a few proposals in some cases proposed that I thank all of them. And I will start, therefore, answer to Mrs. Arrimadas, for the Ciutadans Group. You said that there is indeed a social and institutional crisis in the country. There is a conflict in this country – there is. And I think just this weekend and the diluns have been the tangible proof of this conflict, of this discomfort. There it is. And in democratic societies that have advanced conflicts, society's unrest, it's resolutely voting, it's obvious. And so, once again, we insist that this government continues to be on the side of the basic principles that the muhen, which are democracy, the right to self-determination of Catalans and freedom of expression. You also said we don't enjoy international support. It must refer to the international support of the summer clubs. And you're absolutely right: the state clubs aren't protesting at the expense of independence aspirations. But it's just that we all seem to know what diplomacy means and we all know what it means, so, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, But I, who had to travel to Europe to see our fellow citizens in exile, can assure you that a few times as the case of Catalans has now been so much above European citizenship; a few times I have felt, walking through the streets of Berlin, for example, that people, simply because they were carrying a groceries, I was able to remember that President Puigdemont was in Germany. Or, as the Scottish Prime Minister stood by us and accepted the invitation to visit the Palau de la Generalitat; as the President of Flanders also visited Catalonia, and as many..., the mayor of Perpiny, without going any further, to whom I would like to thank him– and I really celebrate all the support of Northern Catalonia in the Catalan independence process– a call that probably returns to us at that time from another exile, the exile of 39, where also the Catalans of the North, therefore, opened their houses so that we had to join; more than one hundred mayors, more than one hundred mayors of Catalonia, as the President of the North, as well as the President of the Church, as well as the President of the North. I think that for the socialists of southern Catalonia it's a small lesson. Always insist on your speech on the division of Catalonia and the need to live in peace. I do it backwards, I think of the need to live in peace and that Catalonia is not divided. I think the political debate..., and I'm telling you with all sincerity, is that the political debate doesn't break, it's that the political confrontation doesn't break. In this Parliament we are debating, and we are debating hard and hard, politically. What fractures is that I put the president of a parliament that allows a debate to be held in prison. This fractures Catalan society. What is fractured is that democrat and honourable politicians, simply because they received a popular mandate, simply because they honoured the citizenry that voted for them, continue to be in prison; a process that the record that was always – always – scrupulously democratic: all the decisions that were taken in the past October were taken in their parliament, they all held the approval of this chamber. And if this chamber is the chamber where the sovereignty of the Catalan people is wrong, it seems to me that this remains more than demonstrated. And do you know what really divides Catalan society? The Catalan society may be at risk of division if we are not effectively aware that social cohesion continues to be the backbone of the country and above all if those who do not have the facilities to be able to get together, if those weaker trunks of the Catalan society do not have the same possibilities, the same policies of equality as any other city to be able to pull forward. This is where the risk of the fracture of the Catalan society is really bad..., like the whole of any other country, like the French society or the American society has it; it is in the Bretxa that it can be opened between those who can't get out and those who can't get out where the societies really are fractured. And as you have made a series of statements about the Catalan economy, I would like to give them some data that I think they are also located..., extremities of the Catalonia Economic Memory, presented by the chambers of commerce, and prepared for the Benc de Santander, which I would swear that, let us say, they are not affected, therefore, by any kind of processist. And the headline is that the Catalan economy works – works –, works very well. And the reality is that we have to say this one time and another to put things in their place. And we can't look at the figures, the reality, and the data with ideological eyes that want to subvert the data and the numbers. The Catalan economy maintained a high dynamism and continued to grow by more than 3_per_cent. This xifra could become a xifra we say with great joy if it were a xifra of this quarter, or of the last quarter, or of four quarters ago, or of five quarters ago, or of two quarters ago, but it turns out that we carry ten trimesters consecutively of interannual growth, fourteen of which with taxes greater than 3_per_cent. It is to say that, during all these years when independence has been strong, increased, manifested and determined, the Catalan economy has grown as it has not had any other community in the Spanish State, to speak in these terms. We are the most exporting territory of the Spanish State; we carry seven years of consequence exceeding our export record, with growths higher than the average of the European Union and countries of reference. We are the most attractive region to invest in Southern Europe in 2018 and 2019, just as we were in 2016 and 2017. If that's what I said, then surely you could discredit me, but that's what the Financial Times says. And last but not least: industrial production continues to grow by the end of the month and grows more than at the end of the year. About the Atum, September 2018– given that we have just met –: reduction of the atum by a minus 5_per_cent year-on-year, up to 380,344 so-called people; they continue to feel many so-called people, of course they do, but it is the first descent in a _month of September since the year 2007. It stands out the construction, with a minus 12,5_per_cent; the industry, with a minus 9,3_per_cent, sectors with a less temporality than the sector you serve. And I'd say that maybe it was also a coincidence that this month was down; maybe it's five months ago that maybe it wouldn't be so random; maybe it wasn't; maybe it wasn't; so fourteen months ago, it wasn't; well, we're carrying sixty-three months of annual reduction in the recorded year, since July 2013, in the midst of a processist crisis, in full debate about the future of Catalonia. Therefore, I would preach to them that, with these figures so important, with the data, we do not play, because with the data and to make a full use of these data, a use of these data, we play the responsibility of this country, we play inversions. We play inversions, of course we do. Because, if you don't get to serve these figures and use, as always, this alarmist policy, this catastrophic policy, so we're playing inversions. And we have to tell the world clearly that this is a country that is attractive to invest there, that in this country the companies are pulling forward, that the entrepreneurs are pulling forward, that the sky of today is going down, and it's going down continuously and permanently, and that we have to work a lot more because that's what's going on? I'm so sorry! And that's why there's a plan of government that I supported. But above all – above all – let us no longer manipulate the objective figures that exist in the country. Another xifra that is trying to devert: tourism – tourism. And, of course, we have lost visitors, tourists who visit us, to say the least. Val? [[Widow's remorse.]] Sorry, I didn't just get out; they're right to laugh. Now, if we've lost these visitors, we've also got results that we remember. That is to say, the past year, 19.1_million tourists, more than 5_per_cent respect to the year 2016, which meant 19,224_million euros of expenditure, more than 10_per_cent respect to the past year; 100..., almost 170_euros of average daily expenditure, more than 4_per_cent of the past year. This 2018, indeed, a certain encouragement in the volume of arrivals and overnight stays, but not in the volume of entrances of foreign tourism: from generation to July it has increased in the 7,1_per_cent of total expenditure. What do we care? No, what are we more interested in having more tourists or more tourist tickets? More tourist tickets. And compare it to other parts of the state, how did it go? Well, so some of the other territories of the State that are touristly more important grow in the same proportion that we grow: Canaries grow in a 2.6_per_cent; Balears, in a 0.6_per_cent; Andalusia, a 1_per_cent; València, 4.6; us, repeat, 7.1. Is it bad, is tourism in Catalonia bad? Therefore, as the economic figures, as the figures of the past..., do not play – do not play – with the most important figures of this country, we give security and we continue to be responsible for it. She also told me, Mrs. Arrimadas..., she said: "It is time to tell the truth. And I, from the first day I took over the presidency of the Generality, say the truth, say my truth. You'll probably defend me from saying yours, I'll tell my truth. And when I say I won't accept the feelings, which you were commenting on, then I refer to what I explained yesterday: that I think these feelings, if they are produced and produced in a sense that our friends and companies are denied, suppose a hint of inflection for this country. And what I call him, this country, and the citizens of this country, is that each one of them, consciously, from his conscience of men and free women, will know what to do. And we will also know what to do: we will come to the Parliament of Catalonia, as we have always come, and we will propose to this chamber the measures that may be necessary. And, moreover, today I have just been told... – I think it's a given, a time more, a sad one; another one that places us at the point, effectively, of the political conflict that this country has seen – they have just told us today that, another time, the Supreme Court has once again denied the freedom of our companies. And that's an indecency, that's an indecency. It's just that every day our companies go to jail is an indecency. But how can you think that our members of the Government of Catalonia, our social leaders, will be able to prepare this trial, this general cause against independence from prison? Do you know what this trial means? Set us up. We have the prisoners at the different prisons. Okay? You have to ring the bell, the alarm, quarter-six. Six, you're in the van. You arrive at two-quarters of a national audience pumpkin; an hour and a half of journey, an hour and a half in hand, an hour and a half without these prisoners having the dignity, at least, of being able to make it to the national audience in conditions, marijats. National Audience Calabria, two, three hours, four hours, aillat. And, suddenly, after these hours, I can declare, try to say anything, try to defend you. Because we have not come here to defend ourselves from anything, we will come to these courts to accuse the State of everything, of which this general cause against independence has followed. Finish the statement. Go back to the national audience. Two, three hours, maybe. He goes back to the van, he goes back to the prison center. Do you think that in these conditions our political prisoners have a chance to have a fair trial? They think they might have prepared it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Do they think they may have prepared it, a judgment of these magnitudes, of these characteristics? Your companies, Mr. Carrizosa, your companies, d'esco. I wasn't here, you were. You were. You were here, your company, you know who the prisoners are that you, the Spanish State, are, therefore, guarding the prison. And one day they'll come out... [[remorse of the voice]] One day they'll come out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.34.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.35.0	One day they'll come out, Mr. Carrizosa, and I won't have any trouble looking at them again; but I don't know – I don't know – if you leave this room you will have this problem. [[Greetings.]] But, let's go back, he was talking about delegitimizing the Spanish State. It's not necessary, it's not necessary for them to wet anything, no. The Spanish State is delegitimate sun – it is delegitimate sun – with the justices, with the justices – with the justices – with the justices – if you tell everyone everything, with European justice... Why do you not know what the internationalization of the process has meant...? That in four European countries they have placed Spain's justice against the ropes, in four European countries? Listen to me, today, President Puigdemont is in Amsterdam, making a conference at a university – he is in Amsterdam making a conference at a university. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] A conference. No, but, I mean, I thought I'd compare the situation, didn't I? While we have political prisoners in prison, in Spain, we have..., our exiles are moving throughout Europe freely, and they are not collides either as profuges or as fugitives from justice – they are neither collides either as profuges or as fugitives from justice. Do you know what they're like? As democratic leaders – as democratic leaders. [[Greetings.]] And the best universities in Europe acquit them, and people want to know what's going on, what's going on with this conflict in the Spanish State, which in the 21st century is not enough to solve it. Or do we always have to have the same answer from the State, always the Catalans? Therefore, it is illegitimate sun, the Spanish State. But you, too, Mrs. Arrimadas, have asked some very concrete questions about health, education, dependence, taxes..., which seemed to me to be a very interesting debate. I want to comment on some respect. In the first place, on the decrease of the access time of the lists of waits, remember that, in the subject of the external consultations– dates: May 2017, April 2018–, 2016 the days of waits are 152; 2018, 86. We were going to download a 43,4_per_cent, and we're staying here. And we need to get better, but we're staying here. And that was a very important one. Diagnosis tests. The year 2016, patient waiting days: 85; the year 2018, 51. We downloaded a 40_per_cent, from 2016 to 2018. And we keep it here, and we need to get better, but we keep it here. Therefore, also, do not play – do not play – with the ciphers. And for all the other data that you've put on the table, I've got to put it back wrong that I always put it back. Miri, as President of the Generality, I confess one of my great frustrations: when I come to see entrepreneurs, when I come to see unions, when I come to see associations, foundations, the Third Sector Table, schools..., everyone, says: "Listen, we need more resources. You go to the gatherings: "We need more resources. All: "We need more resources. And you think, "Yes, of course, we need more resources. But it's this country that generates them, these resources. This country generates all these resources to meet the needs that everyone claims, and that they do well to claim. And, therefore, let's go back and insist on the fiscal deficit point, which is one of the essential issues in the independence process. For the year 2014, the tax deficit was 16.570_million euros. Do you know what it represents in terms of Catalan GDP? 8.4_per_cent. Here are a few examples of the fiscal deficit, to tell us which, in volume, is supposed to be this figure, this 8_per_cent. I, when I meet with entrepreneurs, always tell them, say: « Imagine your company... – I worked with the private company for a few years– « Imagine your company that every year before..., just, listen'm, on the 1st day of generation..., pfff! , is found with its assumptions with a minus 8_per_cent. Imagine what you could do for the training of your workers, to expand your installations, to internationalize the company, to guarantee the pensions of your workers. Imagine that this happens again every year. What are the possibilities for these companies? They wouldn't think of these businesses, to say no, is that unsustainable? So look, this 8.4_percent of catal GDP is the same amount that the generality has allocated the past year to social spending. Imagine: every year, since 1986, we lose 8_percent of our wealth as a country. Without fiscal deficits, we could double Catalonia's social spending and reach European standards. We put it in context: every day we leave Catalonia about 40_million euros diaris, without being able to do anything. And a few more concrete examples: in two weeks of fiscal deficit we could make all the educational centers that are found in prefabricated modules pass to have a definite equipment. Two weeks of fiscal deficit, counselor. In three days, in three days and a half, we would pay for a new hospital like the Moisès Broggi de Sant Joan Despí – three days of fiscal deficit, a hospital like the Moisès Broggi. Lowering university taxes, as much as we need, lowering them by 30_percent has a cost of around 47_million; a day of fiscal deficit – one day – one day, a day that we can put up with the 40_million that does not exist in Catalonia – one day – our students would hold university taxes 30_percent more cheap. That's why we want independence. We don't want her just to have a flag on the hemicle. We want it to have better hospitals, we want it to have better education, we want it to guarantee the pensions of our great ones, we want it because everyone has the schools that they deserve, effectively. Mr. Iceta, I also want to thank you for your kindness and make some considerations. He said, "Where do we go from here? Says: "You sometimes barregen... Says: "Didn't you already do the reference and now want another reference, etc.? I mean, it's a... let's say, one of the usual ways, let's say, to focus on the subject. No, we actually already did the self-determination reference, and so much so! , the first of October. And we declared independence politically on October 27. But we are doing a very important thing if we really want to talk, we are saying: "I am escorting, to find a political solution in this country, we are able to move forward with this situation that we have today for a legally, legally and internationally binding reference. Which... which hasn't been so long since you gave it to me six years ago. And I remember his words, he said: "The references to independence must be made and, in fact, to advanced democracies must be made. And he gave some examples, he said: « By the way of agreement as is the case of Quebec and 2014 in Scotland. They were statements by girls before the Scottish referendum, weren't they? Aren't we on this screen, Mr. Iceta? No, no, He's changed his mind. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, no, no, but that's what you said! This is etched..., it is etched by one of his interventions. I thought so, man! , taking advantage of Mr. Pedro Sánchez's visit to Canada, so I would seem interesting, huh? , that you made him come – that you made him come – what he thought, therefore, was just six years ago. Because it seems to me – and we are defending it – that this would be a political solution to a political problem. And I ask myself, if six years ago you were here, why did you leave? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's a good question, huh? Effectively, okay. Then you answer me – then you answer me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.36.0	Actually, I remember the groups that later have another turn to replicate everything they think is right, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.37.0	Because you now say to me: "No, no... You have said: "No. We must strengthen self-government, we must improve financing... These things, let's say... We are not here, Mr.Iceta – we are not here, we are not here. I think he's been pale for a year. I think it's gone pale this week. We're not here. And I think I've been very explicit to tell you that this is not a way that we can accept. In change, I commit myself – and you reminded me, because we voted for it in the chamber – to summon all the parties in the dialog table. It was a compromise that we took in this table and it did well to remember us - and I commit myself, therefore, to throw it forward,. I got the Mediterranean Corridor theme, huh? The Mediterranean Corridor, which few like the Catalans we have apostated for him, in the eighty years already we speak, we, of the Mediterranean Corridor. Okay? While, therefore, an illustrious colleague of his, Mr Felipe González, chose, therefore, to make AVEs Madrid-Sevilla, or Mr Rajoy chose the central crossing in place of the Mediterranean Corridor, until..., until – thank God! – that the European Union said no, no, no, that the way is that of the Mediterranean Corridor, eh? And that's what we approved in 2011. But you promised that we would end the Mediterranean Corridor, if I made the list of ministers who told us that we would end the Mediterranean Corridor wouldn't end, huh? So no one doubts this government's commitment to the Mediterranean Corridor because we're the first ones to push it and be the last to leave it. On guaranteed income..., guaranteed income from citizenry, they commented, complained..., but I would also like to put some important checks, in the same line that was told to Mrs. Arrimadas, about us not playing with the checks and we are still responsible. We have gone from 66,000 beneficiaries to 113,000 beneficiaries of the guaranteed income of citizens, who represent almost 27,000 families. Thanks to this 2,000 people have found work and 11,000 have activated and targeted the SOC. Aid has been increased by €200 per month to recipients. And the only and main reason for denial is to have higher entrances. You know, and they make a reasonable and constructive criticism, and here we find ourselves, and it's good that you tell us, "They're slow in the app. So they're right, they're slow. And, therefore, we must improve it. And for that, what have we done? So we've set up working groups with binding entities, regulatory deployments and relationship protocols; pending a third meeting. We are working because this slowness does not continue. And we have set up a technical_table with SEPE, March 2018, to resolve the incompatibility of complementary services and the loss of state service. He was also commenting on the issue of disabled people, Mr. Iceta. This is a subject that I personally have a direct bearing on, and it's a subject that since the first day I took over the presidency I wanted it to be one of the priorities of this government. And two weeks ago we announced, together with the representative entities of the sector, that we jointly promoted a national pact for people with disabilities, with Councillor El Homrani and the Council of the Disability of Catalonia. It's not that it's a sensitive issue for this government, it's an absolute priority issue. In this country, anyone must be able to bring their life plan forward independently and in a capable way. And, therefore, I have no doubt that this is one of the priorities of this Government, and I am pleased that one of the first measures that we were also able to adopt – and that we could not have gone further, therefore, because of the harmful effects of 155 – was precisely the Accessibility Code, which all entities have also valued very positively and which places Catalonia there where we want it to be on this issue: it will go forward, it will go forward in the integration of all people. On the unaccompanied minors, which you have also commented on, and which I think is reasonable that this government has been able to cope with an emergence that actually hit us and that we put all the media in order to put up with it. But I would also like to put down two figures, because everyone was aware of the situation with which we found ourselves. The 2015 arrived three hundred minors did not accompany to Catalonia; with what we wear d'any did not arrive 2,715. That is to say, all the predictions that previous governments might have set themselves up have been wasted. That's right, that's right. But now we..., it would be regrettable – and it would be really logical for the opposition to take us back – if we were no longer working with these figures. Because these figures are likely not to go down; these figures will probably go up. Therefore, we now know this trend. We have to be able to make all the effort because this, in the years that come, does not happen again. So, what have we done? In two years, we have multiplied the economic effort of the DGAIA by seven: from 11_millions we had destined for the year 2016, to 30_millions in 2017, and 72_millions in 2018. We have created 2,047 places between June 2017 and September 2018. We open a center of attention to minors nine every two weeks, when a half-six-months is normally truncated. And the emergency situation we've experienced, fortunately, so we've already managed to reverse it. I would now challenge, therefore, Mrs. Albiach, of Puem. And give Xavier Domènech a hug. I hope that we have the debates as constructive and as interesting as the ones we had with Xavier Domènech, that I remember them with great joy. You'll find us in a hurry. And that, coming from a left-wing party, cost me a little bit of acceptance, because, I don't know, I thought the revolutionaries were sooner here, right? And, therefore, from the left to the right, or to the left that we're in a hurry, it's something that I can't honestly finish hearing. Don't you have a hurry? Don't you have a hurry for political prisoners? Don't you have a hurry to exercise the right to self-determination? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And how do they plan to exercise the right to self-determination? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Or they won't be in a hurry. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, I was heading to Mrs. Albiach, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.38.0	I'm going to remind them that they're going to have a...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.39.0	Why, of course... [[Widow's remorse.]] He forgives – he forgives –: yes, we enter these dialects that do not, no, do not enter. Excuse me. But it is you, Mrs. Albiach, who said to me: "Colums want alone. No, the Coloms have them in prison. The Coloms, now, we have them in prison, ready to go. And this is a very serious situation. [[Greetings.]] And they say to us: "No, lack of direction and coherence. Of promises – of promises – that they are no longer generating false hopes, because people don't deserve it. Miri, as the poet said: "Prayers and laments, what are they for? People who fight is the one who fights. People who fight is the one who fights. I, frankly, would like to feel them to you much more than I sometimes have the impression that they are. Because I think we do share the same values: the right to self-determination, the right to freedom, the right to have rights. I think we share them, and I'd like us to be a lot more comfortable. For example, the future, hope and life, these three concepts, which seemed to me to be three concepts that I fully shared. They seemed to me three great concepts, but if, of course, we move from the first of October to the third of October, which they say..., and value them, you agree to put all this value to the third of October too – but the first of October and the third of October have heard if there is a 27 of October – they have heard if there is a 27 of October. Why did you go to vote, right? To the self-determination reference? What's wrong? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They went to defend the schools, all right. There you are. It's important, it's very important. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's the same. But, of course, those who went to vote, we voted to constitute Catalonia in an independent state in the form of a republic. And this is a mandate for us, for all the millions of Catalans who voted. And that's why I'm saying that October 1st and October 3rd are hearing on October 27th. Because, if not, if we just stay here, it gives me the feeling that we're not just where we should be. I..., would like to take more risks – I would like to take more risks. And about the concept of life, which I liked very much about his intervention. From our investment speeches we have said that we have put people at the center of government action. And what's life? For me, life is culture, life is democracy, life is the National Pact for people with disabilities, life is a sustainable country. Because just like any person in this country has to be able to pull their personal life projects forward, any person in this country has to be able to do it from any racquet in this country. And, therefore, we need a sustainable country. Yes: from the Pyrenees to the Lands of the Ebre, or the Noguera, or the Priorat, as much as it gives me. From then on, any entrepreneur, any person who decides to live where our country is, must have the tools, resources and support of the Administration to pull forward, to pull forward his life plan. « Life means equality, equality men-dones, and that's why our plans for equality. « Life means that the Bretxa between those who can't get out and pull forward and those who can't, we have to make it to the smallest possible, and we have to concentrate all the efforts there – all of them – because of all the figures of the economic memory of Catalonia that was presented to the chambers, this is the data that worried me the most. Because the Catalan economy is fine. And if the Catalan economy is all right, we have to make every effort to ensure that this Britain is not possible. « Does Life know what it means, too? Visit the sensepapers to the Raval. « Life means to take care that every day we are up an Open Arms in this country – every day. Every day, sixty, seventy, eighty, ninety people arrive. I went to see where they arrived in Barcelona. And I went to see them as the Red Creed. « Life means being there. « Life means giving them support. « Life means going to the CAP of the Mine and seeing how from there a pioneering initiative is being made, that from the same hospital there are already units of services and social assistance in the same hospital. It seems to me that it is one of the setbacks we have with the country, the most important, that since the same hospital we are already able to give social responses to those moments, or to those warnings that we already detect in the people who are..., in the patients who are visiting each other. « Life means opening ports to refugees, Catalan ports to refugees; this means life too. And let everyone know that Catalan ports are always open to all refugees in the country. « Life means social lloger. And this government's commitment is to make social logues politics; it's that we're just doing social logues politics, this government, precisely because we believe in this. And you finally say, "Home, let's condition Pedro Sánchez's assumptions. Enjoy, huh? , that we have this majority, condition them, such and such. Okay. But I ask: and can't we condition them because you recognize the right to Catalonia's self-determination? Isn't that the point that agrees with this 80 percent of the Catalans that we're in favor of this question? So, can't this be the point with which we put all the conditions on Mr. Pedro Sánchez? That's why I mentioned it yesterday. And that's why I sent the letter that I promised to send. All right. I'd also like to take advantage of the fact that... you're afraid that sometimes we won't be able to devote all the attention we need. So as we're talking about culture here, I'd also like to talk about agriculture, raming and fishing, huh? In the end – in the end – this is also an important sector – important – of Catalonia, which guarantees precisely that the Catalan people have access to sufficient and quality food, and that they bring us back to the concept of life, effectively. That is why it is necessary to have a cohesive, active territory with economically viable farms, doing everything possible and more so that the pagesia, because our rural world is rich and generating stable employment and quality, in order to guarantee the generational replenishment. Many pages... – eh, counselor? – the other day many pages commented that it is not so clear that we have this secure generational network. Therefore, this government must do everything possible to ensure that our camps continue with our pages, and that this generational replenishment is possible. And, therefore, that's what it is. Welcome friend Carles Riera and CUP partners, you've challenged everything I said from scratch. And when you're being held back by anything you say, it's hard to answer. I didn't come here to administer any autonomy or play with words. I've come here to make the Catalan Republic; it's my compromise. The day I see that I can't go through with this, I'll pray. I in God: "I dismissed him. So, I'm still moving on the path I think we need to move on. And to the people who disobey, like the Mayor of Berga, I give all my support – all my support, huh? Now, I insist – I insist – that we either do it all together or we won't get out of it – or we won't get out of it. If the thirty-four deputies of Juntes per Catalunya, the thirty-two deputies of Esquerra Republicana and the four deputies of the CUP are not able to agree, we will not get out of it. We need that electric moment of the first of October. We need that alliance of the Parliament, the Government, the citizens, the social institutions. And I think I made it very clear yesterday that I would put a few terms into this legislature. And to Mr. Alejandro Fernández... the truth is that, frankly, I don't know what to say to him, Mr. Fernández, because I did not listen to a speech as troglotted as his. [[Widow's remorse.]] This is the Parliament of Catalonia, isn't it the Valley of the Fallen, Mr. Fernández, eh? [[Greetings.]] And if you intend to come here and start saying, "Activists, agitators, totalitarian seeds, I don't know what, what, what, what... Listen to me, I..., is that between what you said – between what you said – or what General Queipo de Llanos told us a few years ago, there is no difference – no difference. [[Greetings.]] I think the rest of the groups haven't fallen into the language you used here. And I beg you – I beg you – the maximum respect for this chamber and the institution I represent. Listen to me, and then the perch to jump, huh? "You look more like me than a perch jumper in Norway." Well, so, this perch... listen to me, I, the Norwegian this one, come and leave me the perch, because with this perch we'll jump the wall of Spain, huh? With this perch, we'll jump. Because here it's not about if we assemble the Norwegian player, the Kenyan fundraiser, the South African rugbi player or an Argentine footballer. Listen to me, I get together and feel the same as all of them. We had, you, to whom he assembles more or to whom he does not; but I feel perfectly like all of them. And the way he made this speech, it's that I can't answer anything, because it seems to me that you, today, didn't say anything. And, finally, to the companies of the Republican Left and the Junts for Catalonia, to thank you all for your support, your support also in these days, these days that we all have remembered the founding moment of the Catalan Republic, which was the first of October, today, which is the strength of the people of October 3. I was very pleased that Mr. Sabria said that the day of the sentences is the day of the Spanish state sentence and that it will be necessary for us to rebel in a coordinated and united manner; yes, sir, that's what we need to do. As I was very pleased that Albert Batet today also mentioned that intolerable speech, that speech of the King of Spain that we still cannot accept today. All of you, most of you, thanks for your support. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.40.0	Thank you, President. As long as the President has allocated time to his reply and, as you know, this is to be allocated to the parliamentary groups, they correspond to each parliamentary group, eight minutes of intervention, with the obvious fact that the parliamentary subgroups will be four each. It has the word, again, the Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.41.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, you have not given us the benefit of an individual replica. I know you don't like to debate very much, but after three months without submitting to a monitoring session – three months, three months – I think it was out of parliamentary dignity that you today agreed to have an individual debate with each of the spokespersons, so that we have more time. But, well, we'll do it that way. You have kept the fiction, the fiction of the process: the process does not affect Catalonia at all, there is no social conflict, it has not missed a chance, let's go wonderfully... Come on, the process, is that it has been fantastic, is that it will be recommendable. The European Union, in your view, is now going to recommend to all regions – as they call them, in Europe – of Europe, so that they make some kind of declaration of jumping away from legality, independence, rioting on the street, because, hey, it's an economic revulsive, huh? According to Mr. Torra, it goes great for Catalan society and for the economy. Of the social issues I have raised to you, you have not answered a single question of which I have asked you. I don't know if you weren't listening to me, if you when you talk about hospitals, waiting lists, you disconnect, because you can only... No, you haven't answered one of the questions I asked you. No, no, not one. I asked him: "Are you going to withdraw the amendment to our entire law to better manage waiting lists, yes or no? He hasn't answered. I know you weren't talking about the trial, huh? Maybe you already disconnect there, but I'm going to keep talking about social issues. The issue of disability; he hasn't answered me. Why did they vote against making a permanent, stable committee to discuss disability policies the same day they set up a commission... the 155 commissionat? Do you think that's...? And that's the subject that matters to you very much; he said: "No, that subject is a special one for me. For I do not know what the others will be like; if in which he particularly votes against making a parliamentary committee on disability the same day as he creates another committee, another chiringuito for 155, I do not want to imagine the social issues that are not so fundamental to you. Is he going to dedicate money to brussol schools or not? He hasn't answered me. Do you mind starting to reverse the wage gap between men and women, discrimination between men and women? Do you care about something, yes or no? Of EUR 35,000_million, are you going to find something to reverse the shameful policy of EUR 1_million for schools in Bressol? Have you answered me... maybe it's that, I don't know, I've been distracted, or have you answered me if you're going to return the extra pay to the officials and when they're going to do the calendar? That's not it, either, is it? Did you say anything about taxation, Mr. Torra? To those of us who care a little bit to see what happens to Catalans, have you said anything about middle class taxation? No, right? He's very busy responding to the UPC. No, no. Have you said anything about the... well, the purchasing power, the recovery of wages or the working conditions of the officials of Catalonia? By the way, to hear your government partners say, therefore, that you have to resign Mr Buch for police action, not for repressing freedom of expression, no, no, for police action, while yesterday we had several press releases from Mossos d'Esquadra's trade unions complaining that they had to exercise their obligation under very unfortunate conditions, seems to me very serious; and that you do not have a word – or a word – to say ‘we are going to guarantee you the resources you need to fulfil your obligation' seems to me very serious. I would ask you, officials, first, to pay them back; second, do not give them orders contrary to the law and judicial decisions, to begin with, so as not to put them against the sword and the wall, and third, that when you force them to do something, give them the necessary resources to carry out that task. Then, from the issues of money and priority, the usual: 'Spain steals from us, doesn't it? It's the hit. They don't steal here, do they? Did you say anything about corruption, Mr. Torra? No, right? Sure. So much country and future, and the pertigo of the wall... corruption has forgotten you, poor man. No, no, the people who steal from us are the Andalusians, the bats, the extremists... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] According to you, yes. Yes, yes, yes... [[Widow's remorse.]] Because you say that our money is left with the rest of the Spaniards, that is to say to the rest of the Spaniards who are stealing from us. And here the only ones who steal are those of the 3_per_cent and those who are now arrested giving statements to the judges. Those are the ones who steal from the Catalans. [[Greetings.]] That you manage Catalonia, you manage the daily problems of Catalans, is that we no longer expect it. I have no hope that you will get to work on this, none. So, little more to add, huh? The rest of the games. Gentlemen of Podemos, who have spent almost as much time criticizing us as criticizing Mr. Torra, who we are not yet ruling, eh? Not yet. [[Widow's remorse.]] I only say one thing: follow you around, continue to give support to the Government and reach out to Mr. Torra, to that right accused of corruption of 3_per_cent; that right accused of corruption is not bad, you have to offer them an agreement. Continue to support the president, who pays tribute to racists. They continue to defend policies of this government, such as that of the Minister of Culture. Keep criminalizing those who break ties, go on, go on. Then, when the ballot boxes are reopened, they will say: "What happened? What happened? And why do we have eight deputies? Keep going, keep going. To the Socialist Party, with all cordiality, Mr Iceta, I ask only the same as to Mr Torra: tell the truth. You cannot come here to say that it is a success and that it is bearing fruit of Mr Sánchez's strategy of appeasement and false dialogue. And he cannot say, above all, the day after they have tried to violently assault Parliament, after this gentleman is arming the masses to "press after violent acts, he cannot say it after riots, he cannot say it on the day that they have occupied a building of the Generalitat of Catalonia to remove a Spanish flag, among many other things. It's not a success, it's a failure. And many Catalans have long since felt abandoned by the Government of Spain, also by Mr Sánchez. Being in Moncloa cannot be at any price, and less to deliver the tranquility of millions of Catalans for following one more moment in the helicopter. And finally, we are tired; in that we agree. I think all of Catalonia is tired. I do not know, do you not see the failure of your project, which has made all Catalans exhausted, even for different reasons? We are very tired of their insults, their exclusions from public buildings, their speeches, the holidays, the streets, the beaches. We are tired of being humiliated by you, with your rhetoric, yes, "linguistic colonizers, as the Commissioner for Culture calls us; that attack on the official symbols that are of all; that attack on the majority feeling of Catalans, which, although you do not like, is to feel Catalans, Spanish and European. And we're very tired – very tired. Because what you're doing is insulting and humiliating millions of Catalans. [[Greetings.]] They insult and humiliate millions of Catalans, and I'm going to tell you why. Because, when you burn, when your comrades and colleagues of the separatist commands burn Spanish flags at the door of the Parliament, when they take it off the buildings of the Generalitat, do you know why they do it? Because this flag represents the equality, solidarity and union of 47_million people [[the speaker shows a Spanish flag to the chamber]] ; represents a democratic country of the European Union ; represents a country of free and equal citizens, a country much stronger – much stronger, I assure you – than the weakness of the government of Pedro Sánchez. And neither you nor your separatist commands are going to make this flag of Catalonia disappear...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.42.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.43.0	...or everything it stands for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.44.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.45.0	Thank you very much. [[Strong applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.46.0	There's the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr. Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.47.0	Thank you, Mr. President. And I will be excused by the very honorable President of the Generality if I begin my intervention by challenging the opposition leader. Also with all cordiality, Inés : for Spanish flag, that [[the speaker assigns the flag of the Session Hall]] , which is much bigger, much prettier, and we see it all and it represents us all. [[Greetings.]] Two. I already know that in the parliamentary expression you are telling the truth that I am lying. I can't accept it. First, because I don't. And second, because I already understand that those who were born out of the conflict and grew up with it do not have the slightest interest in solving it; that is Citizens. [[Greetings.]] And I find it unsavory to take advantage of a debate on the general political orientation of the Government to talk about other things. But I'll tell you: I do, I defend dialogue, with everyone, always. I defend the dialogue so much that I think we are better off with a government in Catalonia and a government in Spain than when they were not spoken. And I think we're better now than when independence was declared or an illegal referendum was held. And I think we need to keep talking, I think. And as I defend it... and I also think very well of the agreements that the two governments have reached, and I would like your party to vote on the budgets so that Catalonia has more means to make the social policies that you demand. [[Greetings.]] That said, President, and you'll excuse me, I wanted to tell you a few things. First of all, I do have the effect, but I may be mistaken, that his speech, particularly yesterday, also had the feeling of filling in the one that passed October 1, which I think did not please anyone, and you probably the same. It is true that we do not like to talk about division or fracture, because it seems that it makes us diversity or pluralism. No, no, I don't, I don't. Now, what I do say is that trying to create an independent state, outside the law and without the support of the majority of the citizenry, therefore, against the majority of the citizenry, creates a fracture; I believe so. And, therefore, we have to see what it is that creates a fracture and what does not. Now, talk, you can talk about everything, I'd just miss it! You have a legitimate right that I do not think I will ever discuss, you have rejected the majority confidence of this Parliament and, therefore, you are the President of the Generality, to your address, to your complaint and to your agreement, if possible. Three. In general, with the ciphers. Look, I don't like to make a speech that's never denied, you know, and the sooner I think the function of policy makers is to generate trust. Now, don't do cophosm. And not to lose 'nsen great figures: creation of occupation? We are Spain's seven autonomous community in job creation. I'd like us to be the first. Or, for example, there are communities, such as that of Murcia, which have clearly surpassed us in the generation of renewable and distributed energies. I wouldn't want to be the first in the past. There's an attempt to make things better. The third thing I wanted to say to you: I intend to speak on behalf of the people, we all do it at one time or another. The people of Catalonia..., here we have heard speaking on behalf of the people of Catalonia even to parliamentary subgroups. Count! Because we are all representatives of the people of Catalonia – we are all. But we cannot speak on behalf of the people of Catalonia arrogantly representing ourselves above what we have. The people of Catalonia, on certain issues, have diverse opinions, and on independence is one of those issues. Then, and I will allow myself – and I do so with a very friendly tone, however – I would also like to take the opportunity to answer a question addressed to me by Mr Batet. "You knew... I already know that I like to say, from time to time, "Iceta, prophet because some of the things I think I have announced have been fulfilled. Miri, we wanted to warn you about the political consequences and the criminal consequences of certain decisions – we warned you. You freely decided not to pay attention to our warning and are on your right. Now, they don't want to hold us responsible for the consequences of their decisions on which we warned them. I'm just saying that. The theme of self-determination, the right to decide... Miri, the PSC, the year 2012, incorporated in its agenda the right to decide. And then, when we saw that for you, the right to decide was a substitute for the right of self-determination, we abandoned this claim. And then, besides, I say, a reference to self-determination in a society divided by half is the death of that society. Do we believe that? No, no, in Scotland, until the "yes" comes out, if that's what we've seen too. To me, what I'm asking..., is that on this I wrote a... – you wrote much more books than I and, moreover, I must recognize it, better written–, but I wrote one about these themes. Self-determination, the reference to independence, one of the things that happens to me, we would say, is that it only works if it turns out that it does, because, if it turns out that it doesn't, it goes back to doing until it turns out that it does. And I don't think he's wanted well, that. [[Widow's remorse.]] I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, that's not true, let's look at the case of Quebec, let's look at the case And, by the way, speaking of Quebec, I think there is nothing to see about Pedro Sánchez's visit, but the political defeat of independence in Quebec, quite recently. [[voice remorse and applause]] It also shows that what we sometimes think is an unalterable fact, so, it's not, because public opinions change. And, therefore, we believe, but we respect your position, I would only miss it... but we believe that speaking in terms of self-government can unite Catalan society. And you don't deserve it, you say, "We're not here anymore. Miri, I'm sorry, President, it's just that you don't know where they are that's the truth. Our problem is this, because we are neither on October 1 of the past year, nor on October 1 of this year, nor on October 3 of the past year, nor on October 20 or 27, we are not here. We're not in a Catalan republic. We are in a Parliament of Catalonia elected on the basis of which it is established in the Organic Law of the general electoral system, and in an additional provision of the Statute, already of 79, extended in 2006. We're talking to a government that has some skills and resources derived from that state and funding agreements. We're not in the republic that you tell us... sometimes it costs us to follow them, frankly, maybe because we don't move on the same plane, which we'd solve too, huh? Speaking of which, we'd figure it out, too, but they don't know where they are sometimes. You have all the right to overcome the legal mark, you have all the right to aspire to do so, you can only do so with the majorities and instruments that would enable them. What they can't do is pretend that the others understand in the world in which you live, that it's more the wish than not the reality. And finally tell them the theme of the Mediterranean Corridor Act. We are convinced that the Government of Catalonia is on the side of this claim, if it has always defended it, but this time it gave the circumstance that this act was an act promoted for the business world, for civil society, with a very important presence of people coming from the Valencian Community who have captivated this claim. And, therefore, we believe – and so do we humbly say – that it would be very good for the President of the Generality to have participated; it is simply an opinion. It's over, President. We are all very aware that this country is in a difficult situation, we have talked about political and institutional crisis. Here the question is whether we are all willing to contribute to their overcoming. You, and this honor, confirm what you have to do, that it is fulfilling the parliamentary mandate to search for this Catalonia-endin dialect, if I may. We will try to help because this is produced. And I'm also saying, the way of dialogue and agreement with the Government of Spain I think it has been beneficial and that it can be more in the future if it goes on. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.48.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Now it is the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of the Lady Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.49.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Arrimadas, you'll excuse me, but I'll focus the reply on the government and the president's speech. Like the week we have another ple, so we'll talk about it. [[Greetings.]] See, Mr. Torra, before anything else, Xavier Domènech also sends him a strong hug. [[The joker laughs.]] Before going with the reply to the President's speech, I would like to make a comment to Mr. Batet. Mr. Batet, I think the shapes have ratted him out. I won't say anything more, but, well, it's the same. We are going to work and if you do not recognize that you have a problem of contradictory strategies, the situation is harder than I thought, because that means that today you did not listen to Sergi Sabria and yesterday you did not listen to President Torra. So it's harder than we thought. Why, if they do not have contradictory strategies, how is it that they now threaten not to accept the replacement of the Members we approved yesterday with their votes? What is this, but a contradiction? A contradiction and a threat. Because his word begins to be a threat: a threat of instability to Pedro Sánchez, a threat to call elections, a threat to break all agreements... So I demand that they stop threatening and start ruling, that's what they have to do and that's why they've been chosen. Because, besides, they're more and more alone every day. They're more alone because people no longer believe what they're saying, and they're more alone in, and so on, the same government. Mr. Torra, and you're impatient because you're tight. You say hold, and when you hold, you get nervous and then you come out and say a headline. It is normal for them to hold it, because you said that in eight months we would be a republic, and the reality is that we are not. And I ask him, what does he want? What do you want, that within a_me still hold the « more? Won't it be better to punch the bottle and recognize the error as they do in private? Because if there's anything that's not revolutionary, it's saying one thing in private and the other in public. [[Some applause.]] Some words have been said here this morning: « time, « determination, « persistence and « less gesticulation. It's not my words, it's the words of the representative of one of the groups that supports the government and it has nothing to do with what you said yesterday, it's the opposite. So I ask them to do a favor for the country. First of all, they're talking to each other. This situation of improvisations, contradictions, lack of direction... this situation is unbearable for the country and the country does not deserve it. The second thing – and here I am telling you that we are in a hurry –: when they are already aligned, when they are no longer looking at the law, when they can already work folds, they call, please, the table for the dialog and the clarity pact. And, thirdly, when we get the work done here, we all go and force the State. So, less threatening headlines, that don't help anything, and more agreements. Why, Mr. Torra, do you want to build great consensus in Catalonia? Is it going to be 47_per_cent, that I don't know if it's now 47 or less? Will you rule with title or improvisation? Please clarify yourself, because we don't know. Will it continue to work for a block in defense of rights and freedoms or will it re-emerge the space? Because from his words it's what it looks like. I say this: we believe that the social, democratic and national axes are indestriable, and that is why, together with the table for the dialogue and the national pact of clarity, we call it a social and change agenda, which is urgent, and that is why there are certain assumptions that must be social: education, sanitation, guaranteed citizenship, fighting against masculinist violence, dependence and housing. And I'll tell you six conditions that we think you're supposed to have these assumptions. As I say, they're social, and that's why they have to start reversing the retails, for example, the billions of euros that were retailed in sanitation. They also have to be assumptions for all of 2019. I have already said this before and I repeat it again: one thing is not to tend to the polls and another thing is to avoid responsibilities think that calling for elections is all solved. We need a presupposition for all of 2019. Think about the needs of the joints as well. The gatherings, before a Generality that is inoperative, that is not giving face, are the ones laying the body, are the ones doing the work, meet the needs of the citizenry. You do politics with fallen arms, and in the end the gatherings end up assuming responsibilities, skills and finance that you... that you, forgive, are not covered. Fourthly, tax reform must be accompanied by a tax reform; a tax reform that must be just, redistributive and environmental, too. You also have to implore the inn out of a plate against the tax fraud. And one condition is that it is fundamental for us: they must have a gender perspective. And then again, they don't act like they say they're social assumptions, because every time I get to know Parliament, every time they come up with assumptions, it turns out they're the most social assumptions in history. So, what we're asking is that they have a gender perspective, not just a family name, as I said yesterday with socials, but they're actually following it. And when we have a gender perspective, we have to incorporate the gender criteria into the allocation of public resources and that, among other things, we have to match unremunerated productive work at the time of economic policy planning. That means a gender perspective, that's not just a family name, that's what needs to be done. In short, as I said before, if you talk about life, what you have to do is measures for life. Life in front of the lobby as they do the gatherings. Life before the frustration they are generating with their contradictions. Life before the threats that are continually made. Dignity and hope to build great consensus and country agreements, because I am convinced that we can get out of it. Life and the future. Bye, work, basements, school and freedom. Stop donating big headlines with threats that don't help, don't add up and aren't winners and do the favor of fixing, once and for all, political direction to this government. Stop generating frustration. This government, now itself, does not represent anyone, nor the one he voted for or the one he did a year ago left you on the unilateral path. Therefore, we have great country agreements that make us move forward socially and nationally, because Catalonia deserves it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.50.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of Mr Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.51.0	Thank you, President. Well, President Torra, I've already told you before: I don't want to argue, I don't want to debate your political intentions now, I want to discuss the action of the Government, the policy of the Government. And, from this logic, you have not presented us with a truly consistent proposal, from our point of view, to solve the difficult crisis that afflicts more than 20 per cent of the Catalan people that you saw in the outburst of the poor. We have not found any public policy, no government action that I have decided to reverse this situation. And, please, check the data on the guaranteed income you've displayed here, because we don't fit in, not in the square. And, President, we cannot expect the State to be worthy of returning the social laws suspected for the Constitutional Court. Social justice cannot depend on the almoines of the State. That, from now on, we are self-serving our rights and that the Parliament and the Government of Catalonia are returning all the suspicious laws. For the sake of sovereignty and justice. And now, very briefly, because time does not help me, I will focus on two questions that seem very important to us. Miri, there is a big housing problem in the Catalan countries, and this part of the country, which is the negotiation of this autonomous Parliament, still suffers from a more difficult situation in this sense. People who choose to go to other cities abandoning the barrels where they have lived and grown, have to invest hours and hours in car and work travel. People who can't face the bids of the loguers, who are being kicked out of the house. The solution is very simple: a large public housing park that guarantees affordable parking for everyone, and that this park acts as a regulator of the prices of the real estate market. They have the solution before their noses, you know, but apply it to the supposed exercise of full sovereignty and to confront the financial powers. For another gang, the minimum wage. The poor is a big problem, and when this poor is also the problem of those who have a job, the problem is of much deeper dimensions. Most of the inframilleurists are women. I'm sure half the single-parent families of women live at risk of poverty. And many of these 1,000_euro jobs are in the tourism sector, precisely. We do, we propose to increase the minimum interprofessional wage to 1,200_euros. A full-time contract under this xifra. We share the wealth to live in dignity, indeed, not just a slogan for when we act with entities of the third sector or trade unions. For us, it's not a waste to be told they don't have competitions. Why don't they demand this minimum wage, for example, in public subcontracting, which is in the hands of the Government of the Generality? And why don't they generate a new fair and redistributive taxation and a public bank? All this is happening that your government is not realizing, that we do not see in your government program and that they are urgent, essential. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm done. Most people in this country want to live in social housing and believe that banks pay the bill for the crisis; most people want a decent living and believe that entrepreneurs earn less so that workers can earn more. And we're supposed to be here to fulfill the people's will and do it with social justice parameters. But do you know what's going on? So the very people who say that these social policies are impossible are the ones who say that independence and the republic are also impossible. And we will be able to disobey so much to make democratic justice possible and to make the republic effective as to make social justice possible and to build a country serving the majority of the working class. And the CUP intends to help free the people; it intends to help free the real power of the people with the quiet courage, with the firm active and stubborn decision that it complains, through the same spirit with which the police sect resisted the CUP on September 20, to set an example. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] The CUP is here to sell an indestructible bloc – I finish, president – between the conscious and self-organized will of our people and some institutions that have to respond to this will, under the currency that says that the people hand and the government obey. We're going to help build the bridge of independence over thousands and thousands of espadelles, and now we want that bridge, which so many resignations can make unusable, to regain its original and primordial function: to take the step of a republic to the service of the working class of the Catalan Countries, first and foremost victims...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.52.0	Mr. Riera, time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.53.0	... of the double tyranny of the exploitative capital and of the stripping State, and we are available and willing to lead this disobedient and fighting back. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.54.0	It is the turn, now, of Mr Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.55.0	Thank you very much, President. Three considerations to the reply that you have given me. The first one. If the only speech you didn't like this morning was mine, I've been right in depth and form; you don't know how happy you make me with that statement. Now, if in an intervention in which I have quoted Valentí Almirall, Bori i Fontestà, you answer me with Queipo de Llano and the Valley of the Fallen, it is you – you – who portrays yourself, your prejudices, your true essence, your allergy to discuss deeply. Because you, even though you are a cultivated person – and I don't deny that – are allergic to it. What you like is the imposition, the arenga, that obey what you say. As soon as the nuts are pressed a little bit and you are asked intellectual height in the debate, what do you do? What you have done here twice in your reply: open your arms and say ‘I don't know what to say. He's said it twice. Therefore, try a little bit to debate. Second question. You have demanded of the king respect and you have demanded of the king that he rectify and apologize for his speech. Well, half the population of Catalonia think they have nothing to apologize for. Moreover – and you have to take it into account because you are the president of all Catalonia – we loved that speech. We're proud. His already legendary" you are not alone reached our hearts. It was the embryo of the October 8 demonstration. We finally felt a voice up to the point. And that's the way it is. And, therefore, you have to make it very clear that that half of the population cannot turn away from it and demand an apology, when many think there is nothing to apologize for. Third question. Do you deserve institutional respect? Yes, of course. But you are not sacred – you are not sacred. You are subject to scrutiny of your activity and your political actions. No one here has insulted you, except that you think that calling you "Spanish" is an insult – I see that it has offended you especially. The only one who has insulted here many times calling us 'beasts with human form' is you, and here I am, debating with you. So he has a little more endurance and is able to, dialectic exchange, carry it with a little more elegance, because he is also subjected to the scrutiny of irony. Look, did you or did you not go to tributes of historical characters of philonazi inclinations? He did. Well, look, you in 2011... you could have said, "Well, that happened in 2011. And I, in other parliamentary speeches, had not remembered it, because people can change. Now, with your arena to the street violence of the other day, you showed that you had not changed anything, that you are still the same one who called us in your writings "beasts with human form. You are becoming the obstacle to reconciliation among all. And that is why we ask you to resign – to resign. And you know what's best? , that there are a lot of people on that bench, that it's not exactly mine, that think just like me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.56.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Sergi Sabrià. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.57.0	Thank you very much, President. President, I left a rest, before I focused on his intervention, the rest of the interventions, and started for Ciutadans and Mrs. Arrimadas, because I loved it – I loved it, I have to say – his first intervention. He began with reality and realism, but he no longer thought about it, went straight to his confrontational report and went into action, and from reality he forgot. Reality is trapped, exile and repression. The reality is that today they have again denied the possibility of going out on the street to our prisoners. And that goes to the 21st century and to Europe. This is the reality and this is the realism, Mrs. Arrimadas. And he talks about the external image; then he talks about the external image. Take a rest – take a rest – remember the images of violence that were taught throughout Europe on October 1. And do a rest – do a rest – to the legal rebuttals that took place in the past year. Therefore, it seems to me that they are a little complicated – a little complicated – to talk about the image they emit to Europe. We have, and are not convinced, a new opportunity to make a new country for everyone, despite you. We work for everyone and you work for yourselves. There are no Catalans who want to leave; you need Catalans who want to leave because, if not, your speech does not work. You want Catalan companies to leave because, if not, your speech doesn't work for you. And that doesn't help any catalá; it doesn't help any catalá to whom you vote, nor to whom you vote. He doesn't like the successful Catalonia, he doesn't like the Catalonia that grows a 3.1_per_cent of GDP when Spain grows a 2.5, he doesn't care, because here, in the economic growth of the country, there are no votes for you. The Catalonia of work, of school, of family, of salvation, of habitation, the Catalonia taken over by the citizens who can decide and think for themselves to bother you, are not comfortable. When you develop a plan of government ambitions like what we presented yesterday, it does not interest you to talk to us. If we make a plan to reduce the waiting lists, you don't care, because, if you know, if you know mass, you will lose votes. The Catalonia that thrives does not like it. Catalonia for everyone who has often explained Oriol Junqueras to us turns his stomach. Because we always work for everyone, with difficulties, sure, with few resources, very often with few, very few resources, but for everyone, because our idea of a republic consists of a tool to build a state where everyone – everyone, everyone, everyone – lives better. And this is the main difference between you and us: that this doesn't go with flags, that this doesn't go against anyone. We want the people who vote for them to be better, because we think of a global Catalonia, a people's sun. As we say, we will never give up doing it for all of us. And every time you go out to tear apart our society, we'll go out and stitch it up again. And if that gets us five more minutes to achieve our goals, we'll be patient, because it's so important to make the republic like it does in a cohesive society, it's as important as the republic like it does in a cohesive society. Company Miquel Iceta has devoted many minutes to the demonstrations of dissipation and diluns. And I've said it once before, and I can say it again: we don't like the pictures of dissabte and dilluns, but so important is that we don't like these pictures of dissabte and dilluns as to highlight that the 99.9_per_cent of the people who came out came out as they always do, peacefully and civically. Our fight always goes by to stare at the violent. It's the civil and peaceful disobediences that they pull forward, and the only one that we contemplate with the country. And we work on that and we work on it all the time. But it makes them small use this to cover the demonstrations of the 1_million people of September 11. Or forget that every time there are ballot boxes the independenceists won; that 3_million people came out in the street to be questioned on October 3rd and also on October 1st. We have a political majority in this Parliament enough, broadly enough – broadly enough – as to open a negotiation with the State. With much smaller numbers of people, you know that. And you're supposed to be a caterer, you're supposed to be a tool to make it happen, because only ballot boxes will fix it. And you're not. He said, but he's not; he's not a baker, he doesn't help find this solution. His speech is very ancient; it is the speech of those who were self-determined until self-determination became a reality and then ceased to interest them; it is the ancient speech that says that ballots divide, and ballots never divide – never – and less in a society where 80_per_cent is clear that this can only be resolved by voting. We need it, Mr. Iceta, we need it as a solution, and today it's not. Mrs. Albiach, we're separated, sure, a few things, but a lot less than we share. We need, we need to move forward, we need shared struggles, we need to recover October 3rd, the majorities of October 3rd and also the hope of October 3rd. We have to do it together; we find the formula, we find the table where all this has to be solved. Today, many of the shared struggles, too, have no solution in this state, and so we continue to work together on this right to self-determination. I'm on my way to the end. He said: "He will find us now and always. So that's true; that's true, because that's just... that's what's going on, that's right, but that's not a permit. And, therefore, when we arrive at the end – when we arrive at the end – we do not want to lose them again. I'm at the CUP. We wait for them, we want them, we need them; there is only a shared strategy when you are also there. They are essential, and today we may notice a lot of things all over each other. But as we at least want to say once more that we need and that we will continue to try; that it seems that today tactically it was "squeezing, "squeezing very hard. Okay. We will continue to work to persuade them and to work to persuade them through social policies. It seems to me that today we have found at least three threads to stretch: an effort in that 20_percent of the city that suffers the most, a wire clearly to stretch; some laws to recover, and also a joint strategy that you have not heard without yourself. And, therefore, let's work on it and be sure – sure – that we will achieve it. To the PP, to Mr. Fernández, I wanted to say that you are watching the video of his intervention in white and black, but I think that the President has expressed it much better, and therefore I do not give it more times. And to the President simply to thank him for his intervention today; to ask him to face up to the challenge, these challenges of deploying social policies, of deploying this Pla de govern, of deploying the economic policies that this country needs; to challenge to legislate also from this chamber in favour of all Catalans and to be able to jointly lead an agenda, a joint response, a majority proposal, which returns to the 1st and 3rd October consensus. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , which allows us to expose the different strategies and finally...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.58.0	Mr. Sabria...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.59.0	... and, finally, draw a common general_mark for all and for all. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.60.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.61.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. President Torra, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Deputies, briefly... I think the intervention has been very clear, I think we can add something to it. The first one. Madame Arrimadas, she's back out... is that clear, she remembers that coach of the Barça that Louis van Gaal said? You're the same: always negative, never positive. You're the same: always against it, all badly. It's just that I don't think it's right, Mrs. Rimadas! They're the Louis Van Gaal of Catalan politics! It's like zero projects, zero proposals, zero alternatives! What offer do you have? He had a whole morning to explain it, I didn't hear it. No, no, you don't have a proposal. It's just that it doesn't explain how they think they're going to solve the problems, it's just going to complain! All against, all against. I, listen to me... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no, they want to split and they won't get it, we won't let them, they won't. He didn't get the franchise and he won't get it. They won't divide the people of Catalonia, they won't get it. [[Greetings.]] And, listen, we ask you to respect them – we ask you to respect them. We respect the Spanish flag, the... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, ma'am – yes, ma'am. [[Some applause.]] We have a lot of respect for all the flags of all nations and all states. Listen to me, the same president Puigdemont made him a peto. Listen, we don't have a problem – we don't have a problem. And we want you, as a minimum, to respect us as much as we respect you. Democratic respect is institutional respect, it's respect for human rights, for civil rights, it's a minimum. But it's that we're talking about a minimum, and unfortunately we don't see it. Mr. Iceta. He said: "Escoltin, we are not responsible for what, I don't know how many and I don't know fifths, do we? He said, "We're not..., are we? He said that, and now he's trying to say... [[Widow's remorse.]] Home, home... Mr. Iceta, Mr. Iceta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.62.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.63.0	... you're not cheating on the lonely, because you are responsible, Mr. Iceta, you are responsible for 155. If the PSC and the Socialist Party have not approved 155 with their votes, have not dissolved this Parliament, have not ceased the government and have not continued to cry for the National Audience, because they have kept out of the way. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Iceta. And you know that. Because it could be applied from many ways, 155. They could only apply elections, but they decided to cease the Government, because it is lost in the outages and because the National Audience acted directly. And you know it, and you're responsible for it. Assume it: you are responsible for voting 155. [[Widow's remorse.]] We're not together for Catalonia or the republic; it's you. They voted for it in the Senate, they agreed to it with Mariano Rajoy. It's you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.64.0	I'm going back to insist...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.65.0	And that's the facts, and they don't want to deny the evidence. Mr. Alejandro, let's see, we'll have the opportunity... we'll present, like Junts for Catalonia, a motion for a resolution. Here tomorrow we will see what support the Spanish monarchy has for the Parliament of Catalonia. You, who makes magic numbers, who don't know how the numbers do..., we'll see, with votes, what is the support of the Spanish monarch just now, today, who makes a year of that hard, wrong and catastrophic speech. We'll see, we'll have the opportunity to value it. So I count the votes, too, huh? ; because votes only count in their own way. I count the votes, then, coming from here in Parliament. And finally, together for Catalonia we won't give up. I told them to approve the law amending the law of the presidency, and today we will repeat it again: we will not give up. We will fight for unity, we will fight for dignity, we will do it with determination. We won't give up. We won't give up because President Puigdemont won't give up. Because Jordi Sànchez, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Oriol Junqueras, all prisoners and all of this will not be surrendered. Because we won't give up when the municipal elections and the European elections come. Because we will not surrender, the Government of the Government of Catalonia; it will not surrender President Torra, because we will not surrender here to Parliament. Because the people of Catalonia are not constantly rendering, and we have seen it all these years of civic and peaceful demonstrations on the street. We won't give up. And we will continue – and I will end by quoting Josep Rull, who always finished his interventions citing the Espriu Savior – "to keep ourselves faithful forever more to the service of this people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-10-03-1602.66.0	Thank you, Congressman. Once the debate is over, and there is no turning back, I'm going to summarise what the procedure is with regard to the motions for resolutions. They know they have terms, the groups, to present them until today at four o'clock in the afternoon. Later there will be a _message and will be notified to the group of the accepted proposals. And the deadline for presenting transactions will be until tomorrow, you said, at eleven in the morning. And I remind you that, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this is an improbable term. The communication to the parliamentary groups on the transactions admitted will also be tomorrow at a quarter of a dozen, and the twelve will begin the debate and vote on the motions for resolutions in this plenary. They suspect the session.
