ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies is meeting to comply with the provisions of Article 99.3 of the Constitution and to submit to a second vote the proposal of candidate Don Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón for the presidency of the Government. The session will begin with a pre-vote speaking time, which, given that the Constitution imposes a period of 48 hours, will in no case take place before 7:45 p.m. As you know, and in accordance with Rule 171.5 of the Rules of Procedure, the candidate may intervene for a maximum of ten minutes and the parliamentary groups for five minutes each to determine their position and without a turn of reply. First of all, I remind both the guests and the honourable Members and the honourable Members that, in accordance with Rule 98(3) of the Rules of Procedure, graphic or sound recordings are not permitted on the part of both the guests and the Members. [[Rumors]] It appears in the Rules of Procedure and, as they were displayed in those graphic documents the other day, it had to be remembered. [[The Rumors Continue]] Quiet. We have started the speaking time, and the candidate for the presidency of the Government, Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come again to your ladies and gentlemen to ask for your confidence in my candidacy for the Presidency of the Government. First of all, I would like to express my personal and also my group's satisfaction at the holding of this plenary session and for what it means. The democratic institutions of our country are working again. They have remained in detention following the rejection of the most voted party on 20 December at the invitation of the head of State, King Philip VI, to agree with other parties on the constitution of a new Government. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy's surprising flight from his institutional responsibilities had led our country to a period of uncertainty and blockade, and this week has finally been overtaken by the holding of this investiture session. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, according to the version that Mr Rajoy explained last Wednesday in this rostrum, it was my fault that he did not assume his responsibility for not supporting his failed Government. [[A Member: It's true!]] I understand that by extension it will also be the fault of the millions of citizens who did not vote for it and who supported other forces that promote change of government. There is even the possibility that it is also the fault of the voters of the People's Party themselves for believing that their leader would not disappoint their confidence and would take a step forward and not a step next to it, which is what he has done these days. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I accepted the task of the Head of State, King Philip VI, aware that this helped to solve the problem of Mr Rajoy's refusal. From tomorrow everything will work out with democratic normality. I would also like to involve all the Spanish and Spanish who are following us through television, radio or social networks with a reflection and what would have happened in Spain if the Socialist Party had followed the irresponsible conduct of the People's Party. [[Rumors]] The answer is very simple. Today we would be debating what was to be done to set the clock of democracy in motion and, as I said last Tuesday, I think my only failure would have been to reject the offer of the head of state. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group wants to help get Spain out of the situation of institutional blockade and disgovernment in which others have put it. As you have said this week in this rostrum, most of the parties represented in this House, with the exception of the People's Party, want a change of government. [[Rumors]] So today there is the possibility of agreeing progressive solutions to the problems of the middle and working class that over the last four years has suffered cuts, inequality, division between territories and the spread of corruption. My proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is the formation of a common good government based on two principles: the general good and common sense. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, to bring to the government the idea of a Spain that overcomes the frentist policies, that makes the creation of quality jobs its flag to fight against inequality, a country that seeks the well-being of all with a commitment determined by social policies. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain cannot wait another minute to regenerate democratic life in our country, its institutions and the exercise of politics; a Spain which is open to Europe and also to the world; an inclusive, plural, diverse Spain which resolves through dialogue and understanding its problems of coexistence and which embraces all sensitivities and ideologies within it; a Government which makes the mandate of the Spaniards a reality, ladies and gentlemen, on 20 December. The project of the common good that I intend to promote from the government is the only alternative to Spain of injustice and inequality in which we are immersed, and it is only possible through a cross-cutting agreement between different political forces, an agreement that has as its starting point the document that we signed by the Socialist and Citizen Party and that is open to the rest of the political forces in the coming weeks; an agreement for a reformist and progressive government whose programme I already explained in detail last Tuesday. Ladies and gentlemen, the government that I hope to preside over will first of all address the first and main concern of the Spanish people, which is job creation, with the commitment to reduce the unemployment rate by half in four years and also with a new working framework that will create stable and quality work. [[Rumors and laughter]] We shall regain, ladies and gentlemen, the key role of social dialogue. We will promote an environmentally sustainable economic policy, based on productivity, budgetary stability and a progressive and sufficient fiscal system for the financing of our welfare state and without fiscal amnesties. Economic policy, ladies and gentlemen, must seek the creation of wealth, but also its redistribution between the middle class and the working class, with taxes on the great fortunes, with the rise of the minimum wage and with the implementation of a minimum living income for all those families -700,000 - that right now have no benefit at home, all measures, ladies and gentlemen, that would relieve the people who are suffering the most from the effects of the crisis and, above all and most importantly, measures that would also relieve the people who are suffering from a government that has used the crisis as a great excuse to dismantle the welfare state, as we have suffered over the past four years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have an opportunity for this to be the equality legislature and, if we agree, we can eradicate poverty, child poverty, energy poverty, revitalize our protection systems and rebuild our welfare state and put an end to evictions. We propose, ladies and gentlemen, today, from today on, to regain the universality of public health, to withdraw the co-payment of pensioners, to revitalize the Unit Law, now abandoned by the current government in office. We also have in our hand to increase paternity and maternity leave and to be able to achieve wage equality between men and women. Ladies and gentlemen, we must solve today's problems, but we must also anticipate the challenges we face in the future. That is why we propose a great pact for education, science and culture, because that is the best way to secure our future and ensure equal opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, the government agreement I am presenting to this investiture seeks to clear Spain of corruption with laws that prevent it from happening and with laws that also pursue and punish such corruption when it does. Corruption, you know very well, is a poison that weakens our democracy, at a time when we most need the strength of our democracy. I am talking about corruption, of what we see every day in the media, but also of another which makes less noise, but which is equally serious, and it is the partisan use of public institutions as has been done over the past four years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we urgently need measures to ensure greater transparency of the parties, in their internal functioning and also in their funding. Our agreement also guarantees the independence of the appointments made by this Parliament to the regulatory bodies, constitutional bodies, extends the period of incompatibility to five years in order to avoid the phenomenon of revolving doors and prohibits the granting of pardons for crimes of political corruption, also against human rights and also against gender-based violence; gender-based violence, ladies and gentlemen, which we have to grapple with in our society, and that is why we are proposing the social, political and institutional pact that is included in the agreement that we have signed by the Socialist Party and Citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that our democracy must be kept up to date by strengthening its rights and freedoms and by shaking off the counter-reforms that have taken place over the past four years. That is why we advocate the repeal of the gag law, that is why we advocate the repeal of the permanent, reviewable prison, that is why we want to pass a law of dignified death, that is why we want to pass a law of equal treatment and non-discrimination, that is why we want to pass a law of religious freedom and we also want to revitalize the Historical Memory Law that has been set up by the current government in office. Our proposal, ladies and gentlemen, calls for Spain to regain its weight in the world and play an active and constructive role in Europe, to renegotiate the deficit commitments in Brussels, which have been systematically breached by the current government in office, also to implement a solidarity policy for those countries that are currently receiving refugee flows from both Syria and Iraq, and to articulate a new cooperation policy that means the new relationship with Latin America and also with Africa. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we present to the forces who want change in Spain also raises the urgent need to address the problems of coexistence in Catalonia, from respect for the identity of each one, from recognition to the diversity of the different territories of Spain. We believe that no effort can be spared in building bridges and stimulating affections, always on the side of the law and the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I said this in my speech on Tuesday and I repeat it. The Constitution is the best heritage of our parents, grandparents and grandparents, but it needs reform to respond to today's problems. We must complete the federal organization of our autonomous State, we must regenerate our democracy, rationalize our institutional architecture and shield social rights, such as health, as fundamental rights in that new Constitution. These, ladies and gentlemen - you know very well, because we have discussed it during this week of investiture - are just some of the two hundred improvements envisaged in the agreement between the Socialist Party and the Citizen Party. It is the result, ladies and gentlemen, of 130 Members who have understood the same political philosophy, that of creating a territory to share common ideas without accepting any demands. We have dialogued and found what we agree on. We've done it in two hundred cases. The agreement is not our programme, but it is consistent with the principles that defend democratic socialism. Today many of you, of the 350 Members present here, advocates of a government of change, are going to vote against these two hundred improvements, but we all know that most of you agree with these measures. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the holding of this inaugural session, my group and I have already achieved the first objective, which was to remove Spain from the irresponsible blockade to which Mr Rajoy had subjected it and to set in motion the clock of democracy. The other claim, that of forming a Government, remains in his hands. Today we have the opportunity to make the change that millions of Spaniards voted for on 20 December; a change that can only arise from dialogue, the pact and transversal agreements. The Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen, has ruled for years and today governs communities and cities with agreements with other parties based on progressive policies. It has also been and is loyal to other progress governments. It has done so and it does so with different forces on the left and on the right - also on the centre - without ever having failed in its commitments and without ever having demanded from those who have supported us nothing more than their respect and confidence. In a few minutes it will be decided with the votes of all of you - of each and every one of you, ladies and gentlemen - whether we have been able to think of the general interest by giving up any of our particular interests or not; whether we have been able to take advantage of this opportunity for society or let it escape. Ladies and gentlemen, any government of change will have to meet three conditions.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u3	Mr. Sanchez, I beg you to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u4	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. [[A Member of Parliament: Yes, please!]] The first, a new government of change will have to emerge from the agreement; secondly, a new government of change will have to bring together parties with different ideological sensibilities and, thirdly, a new government of change will inevitably have to have the participation of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party. The Socialists know and accept the three conditions, because we want a government of change, because we agree to agree with other parties with different ideologies to ours and because no government of change that defends the interests of a united, clean and just Spain will fail to count on our support. At the end of this session we will have to vote yes or no for the investiture of a new Government, but that will or will not also answer other questions. The first: do we want an inter-party agreement? Yes or no? The second: do we really want to prevent a new general election in a few months? Yes or no? The third: do we want change policies to start being effective now? Yes or no? And the fourth: do we want to prevent Mr. Rajoy from continuing to lead the government? Yes or no? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u5	Mr. Candidate, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing each and every one of the 350 Members present here. With a single vote we can change the future of Spain overnight, from now on. Let's not wait any longer. Vote yes to change. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u7	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Rajoy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez, we shall vote no for your investiture. [[Several Members: Oh!]] Didn't you know? I did well to remind you then. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, nothing you have told us here relates to what Spain deserves and what Spain needs. Because if anyone thinks that the government formula they have offered us is what Spain needs today, or they don't know what the government is or they're not thinking about the Spaniards. Mr Sánchez, you have not brought us here a government programme, but what you yourself defined as a first step, which in the end has been a step out of the way. You have not come to this House with a genuine programme, agreed to have sufficient support and, therefore, capable of being implemented. Therefore, it does not seem reasonable for us to support what is nothing more than a fictional entity or an unborn program. Nor are we going to vote for it because that first step - which is now the last - is nothing more than an improvised package of measures that everyone interprets a letter, of course, by hoisting the ascua to his sardine. You know, ladies and gentlemen, in this traitorous world, nothing is true or lies, everything is according to the color of the crystal with which each partner looks at it. [[Applauds]] In any case, Your Honor, something has these measures in common and this is the most important reason for not supporting your investiture. They want the demolition of the work carried out by the People's Party over the past four years. [[Rumors]] We are faced with a genuine counter-reform, something that is bad in itself, but which is unacceptable when those policies have allowed us to overcome the disaster that you left us in 2011. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, this is a risk that Spain cannot afford. You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that what is coming at this time would be to persevere in the reforms that bring growth and employment and not just to liquidate them by the fact that they have been approved on the initiative and with the votes of the People's Party. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of changing for change, for the sake of novelty, for not knowing how to be quiet or for any other childish reason. When you take care of the newer people, it's not necessarily the best. No one can think of it, no matter how much new it takes, changing the course when things go around. No one in their judgment throws away what gives good results. What has to be corrected - this is understood by anyone - is what does not work. The opposite is called Adam's syndrome, something typical of immature mindsets who think the world begins when they arrive. [[Applauds]] This is, I insist, the main reason not to vote for your investiture, Mr Sánchez. My party is - don't forget - because that's what the Spaniards wanted - don't forget - the first political force in Spain. As you can imagine, we have not been supported by more than 7 million Spaniards to support the blast of our work and its replacement by a socialist pseudo program. Ladies and gentlemen, this is understood by anyone. Another thing is that this does not satisfy the pretensions of some, that they want us to vote for you, but what I am saying is that this is understood by anyone. We're not here to deny ourselves. We have a lot of respect for our constituents and, since we are a party of free people and we also respect all the Spaniards, we are going to say no, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain also needs a strong government, with sufficient support, which can develop its own plans without burden, a stable, predictable and coherent government. In short, Mr Sánchez, what is called a government. Do you think that what has brought us here meets this reasonable requirement? Your Honor, I told you last Wednesday that yours was an imposture. You could not be invested without the support of the People's Party or Podemos. That's the arithmetic, I'm not to blame. He did not want to talk to us - that is his will - and neither did he take the other alternative seriously. Therefore, you come here without a programme and without a majority that can implement it and form a government, and I do not think it was because of a lack of time problem. All this, Your Honor, has been a fraud, a deception, a farce, I insist, a farce. He didn't bring anything. That yes, I must admit that you have brought a brilliant and democratic argument - because it is democratic -. Listen: Since there is no majority left, gentlemen of Podemos, add to me - to him - and to Mr Rivera, because any of our worst ideas will always be better than a PP government. Take democracy! [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, that has a name and is very ugly: sectarianism, Mr Sánchez, sectarianism. [[Applauds]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do not worry, because Mr Sánchez has told us today that he is going to put an end to the frentist policies, so you, calmly, are not going to have any problems. [[Applauds]] Mr. Candidate, your party has come to an end. You have lost the elections, you, with the worst result of your party's history, the worst, in almost forty years. You've lost this investiture. [[Rumors]] It has made us lose all time, generated false expectations and defrauded them. You have put the institutions at the service of your survival and that is also corruption, Mr Sánchez, that. [[Applauds.-Protests.-Various Members: No!]] Your Honor, you've had your chance and you've wasted it. You did not want to understand who won the election, nor were you able - because you have not been able, Mr Sánchez - to present an alternative. Don't block the situation anymore. Let the Spaniards govern whom they have given much more confidence than you, much more, Mr Sánchez, 1,700,000 more votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u9	Mr. Rajoy, you have to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u10	I'm done, Mr. President. Mr Sánchez, during the debate you have acknowledged on many occasions that in this House - you have said - there is no left majority. If there isn't, act accordingly. Respect the democratic will of the Spaniards and do not force them, for their closure, for their sectarianism and for their interest in having to speak again on 26 June. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.-A Member of Parliament: Goodbye, Mariano!-Several Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group say goodbye with their hands.-Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress say goodbye with their hands.-Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress say goodbye with their hands.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u11	Quiet, please. For the Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, something disturbing happened last Wednesday in this House - I was late to see it - and it is that the spokesman for En Comú Pomero and a servant gave us a kiss on the lips. [[Several Members: Oh!]] Some journalists have told me that this image will remain for the memory, as will the restless gaze of Mr De Guindos, who seems to have never broken a plate. [[Laughter]] Minister of Economy, to exercise that ministry you have to break dishes from time to time and some other things. I'm worried, though in the background not so much... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u14	...,which seems that from that kiss Spanish politics is warming up. Yesterday, in a program in La Sixth, I attended with amazement the fact that a Member of the People's Party, Mrs Andrea Levy, drinks the winds by a Member of Podemos, Mr Miguel Vila. And I assure you something: it is not among my duties as chairman of my parliamentary group to control the virtue of my Members but to guarantee their happiness. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] So, if you want to meet each other, I'll put my office at your disposal. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u15	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u16	Love and passion flow in Spanish politics. Peter: It's just you and me. [[Laughter]] Joking aside, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that, in view of the tension that is perceived between the two groups that have hegemonized Spanish politics in recent times, it was necessary to relax the tone, and I take the part that touches me. Speaking seriously now, Mr Sánchez, I am afraid that in a few minutes' time the failure of your pact with Citizens will be completed - and I say this in the most neutral way possible -. We reject it, reject it United Left, reject it Compromís, reject it Catalan groups, reject it Basque groups. [[A lady MP: And the PP!]] And at the same time, it seems to me that these groups, not the People's and Citizens' Party, but these groups that I am pointing out to you two days ago pointed out another possible way, another way of a progressive government that would have more votes in favour in this House than with votes against. Mr. Pedro Sánchez: Mr. Homs, Mr. Tardà, Mr. Albert Rivera, are not monsters; they are representatives of popular sovereignty, just like you and me. If they decide to abstain from an investiture of a left-wing coalition government, we could have the government that this country deserves. And I'll reach out to him again. Today you know what we are going to vote for all of us here. But from tonight on, we can get to work for a Valencian government. You have pointed out in your speech that the Government of Progress in this country must have a condition: that the Socialist Party be there. I accept the conditioner, Mr. Pedro Sánchez. [[Rumors]] You accept the following conditioner: that we are also, that we are United Left too, that we are Compromised too. Let's accept all the conditions. We're willing to give in. [[Applauds]] I know that it is not part of the best of your dreams to rule with me nor probably part of Mr. Garzón's or Mrs. Oltra's or my own dreams to rule with you. Let's all give in, and from tonight on, let's get to work. Mr. Pedro Sánchez, I haven't seen Mr. Rajoy worried today. I've seen him, I've seen him ironic, I've seen him enjoy a situation that worries me. Do you know what would worry Mr Rajoy, do you know what would worry the People's Party, because it's been saying that for months? That you agreed with us. Because the oligarchies of this country are worried that you will agree with us. [[Applauds]] Dare, Mr Sánchez, to be the president of a coalition government with a real progressive program, without claiming the square of the circle saying that with different ideological approaches one can agree on economic policies, saying that one can look to the left for social policies and to the right for economic policy. That's not possible in politics, Mr. Sanchez! You agree with us, with Compromís, with United Left, dialogue with the Basque Nationalist Party. There are Catalan political forces here who are not monsters, who are representatives of popular sovereignty and who, although we disagree, do not want the People's Party to continue to rule. I know it's not easy, I know it's full of difficulties. Our hand is still stretched out from tonight, but just as we accept the condition that you are in that government, that you are president, you accept that a coalition government to the Valencian has to assume that the responsibilities and decisions will be taken together. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, sometimes the most bitter discussions precede the sweetest moments. I hope that after tonight the agreement we reach can be called the kiss agreement. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u17	Thank you, Mr. Churches. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether we are so funny or so loving, but let us talk about the investiture session. [[Several Members: Very well!]] We have a golden opportunity for Spain to start making the reforms it needs. There are those who are satisfied with 21% unemployment, there are those who are satisfied with the second problem of the Spanish being corruption, there are those who are satisfied with being the number twenty-eight country of the OECD in education, there are those who are satisfied with 750,000 families who have no income, there are those who are satisfied with the lack of equal pay for men and women, there are those who are satisfied with many things, but it is not time for conformists, Mr Rajoy, it is time for people who want change and action. Conformity and laziness are not the best recipes for the days we live. Democratic regeneration, social policies of equality, health, education and employment, knowledge economy and not speculative economy. Europe is our natural place as the fourth European nation. Constitutional reforms not to break Spain but to make it stronger and more equal among us and, ultimately, to remake the common Spanish project is the great objective of these two hundred reforms that we have signed between the Socialist Party and Citizens. Therefore, I will not ask you today to join that agreement which has not been read, Mr Rajoy, because you said that there is no agreement. It's not that there's agreement, it's that there's two hundred reforms, not five like the ones you sent, two hundred. Does it give you much laziness to read them? Read them, it's two hundred reforms. [[Applauds]] There are two hundred reforms to change Spain and not five, two hundred. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u20	Two hundred reforms to change this country. I am not going to ask you to participate - either silence, because it would be incredible if there was silence in this House - but I am going to ask you to at least those who listen to us from home - if we can get to them - to understand that. We need a new political stage, not even those who want to break Spain or those who want to let Spain rot. This joint Spanish project needs to be re-raised. And today they will vote together those who want to break Spain and those who say they do not want to change anything, and we will also vote together for themselves those who have understood that there is a need for change, that there is a need for dialogue. I am sorry that Mr Rajoy is voting today with Bildu, with Esquerra Republicana or with Podemos, but that's what there is. [[Several Members: Come on, man, please!-Protests.-Applause]] Speaking also of the Transition, what a difference between that Communist Party and those statesmen such as Mr Solé Tura or Mr Carrillo and what we have heard here, Mr Iglesias, what a difference! I wish you would look like the Communist Party of the Transition, I wish! [[Applauds]] Because coming from exile and agreeing with those who think differently was epic, not the lab epic that you bring to this House. Really epic. [[Applauds]] Those men and women brought freedom, equality, amnesty, autonomy and gave their hands under the same flag, under the same Constitution and there were many resignations on the part of that Communist Party, but they proved to have a sense of state. I want here today to pay tribute to those men and women who, regardless of their ideology, and not like today in this House, were able to participate. [[Rumors]] How many ministries and state secretariats have asked from the Communist Party? None; they asked for freedom, only freedom. [[Applauds]] And I also want to remember logically a lot of people from the UCD. In the People's Party there are many people who come from the UCD and others who come, like Mr Rajoy, from the People's Alliance. Well, I ask the members of the People's Party to come from the UCD to consider why they are not joining a new political stage today and why they are voting together with Mr. Iglesias today. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Mr. Iglesias says he wants a pact with the Valencian woman. Given the ministries you ask for, who you are going with and the referendum you want to hold, I think you want a government of trouble, rather than the Valencian one. [[Laughter and applause]] So I, the People's Party and Podemos, am not going to ask you today, Mr Rajoy, to join two hundred reforms for Spain. I'm just gonna ask them to stop destroying and start building. Both extremes of the House will vote the same, both extremes. That's funny, isn't it? You're going to vote the same because you can't build, because you're only able to destroy. On the other hand, there is an agreement built, by the way, between 130 Members and 9 million Spaniards, which if I am not mistaken is more than 5 and 7. [[Several Members: It's 12, it's 12!-Laughter.-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u21	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u22	President... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u23	Mr. Rivera, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, the other day I said, and I reiterate, that those expressions that sometimes explode and translate into applause or booing are untenable and are good because they portray the climate and the environment in the Congress of Deputies. But that permanent noise, that constant runrun, that increpation... [[Rumors]] Yeah, let me finish. That incrupation you have the floor to, that's not consumable. I will tell you that noise not only drowns the sound; noise drowns the word, noise drowns the reason and noise drowns the argument. I would therefore ask your ladies and gentlemen not to drown the essence of what this House is. [[Applauds]] Silence, please, and let the deputy who has the floor continue with her. Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u24	Thank you, President. As I was telling you, 9 million Spaniards are more than 5 and more than 7 and for them to be 5 and 7 they would have to be Mr Rajoy and Mr Iglesias in the same government, which is the last thing we would miss to see after all the numbers they have assembled. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] So I'm not going to ask you to join a new political stage, I'm not going to ask you to work, because Mr. Rajoy has even put the king's constitutional role in check, but he hasn't managed to bring it down. Therefore, in the face of this situation... [[Protests]] Yes, yes, he said no to the king when it came to him, according to Mr. Rajoy himself. [[Protests.-Applause.- Mrs. Martínez Saiz: But, man!]] For I say to you that you have not succeeded in undermining neither the constitutional role of the king nor this House nor democracy. Democracy works. Today a procedure is being put in place which, as you are going to prevent, opens up two months of uncertainty, of blockage, because that is what the People's Party and Podemos want, and as I am not going to ask you to join, as I am not going to ask you to build, as I am not going to ask you to bring an agreement here because you are incapable of reaching agreements, at least I am going to ask you to abstain. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u25	Thank you, Mr. Rivera. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. candidate, Mr. Sánchez, I have only five minutes to tell you a lot of things, but most of all I have a lot of people behind me waiting for you to tell them. So I'll try to be brief but very clear. First of all, I want to say something that is very annoying to you, to the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, but above all to the People's Party and to that cool, varnished, new right 2.0, the People's Party Hagendado, called Citizens. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u28	I am here and I am in this defending the right to be whatever people want to be in front of an urn, because I am a grandson and son of Andalusians who arrived fifty-five years ago from Jaén and Granada to Catalonia, I am what you call carnego and I am an independentist. Here's your defeat and here's our victory. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, can you keep quiet?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u30	Calm down. They - I can assure you - were very little at school, like so many others. One was a bricklayer and the other was a taxi driver, but they had dignity and decency all their lives to know that democracy was going to vote and that if you didn't vote you were in something else, and if you also voted and won and they said no, you were in something even worse. And I'm here and I'm in this because I'm convinced that they'd be here today with us defending the right to be whatever anyone wants to be in front of an urn. They told us three things. One, which in this country of countries called Spain was to win against those who always won, that is, you, Socialist Party, Citizens and People's Party Two, that the differences between the peoples in that country of countries called Spain, once and for all, had to be settled against an urn and not with what threats, with what sentences and with what insults. [[Rumors]] And three, that there was nothing impossible, that the impossible they already did, and it was to raise out of nothing neighborhoods, cities, their houses, with their hands; to have a roof, light and water where there was absolutely nothing, where there was only mud. That was impossible. And that in a process of self-determination a country won against an urn had nothing impossible. Imagine what we can't do to your heirs. That's why I'm here and I'm in this. We could keep talking about you, about you, Mr. Sánchez, about you, Mr. Rivera and about you, Mr. Rajoy. We could continue to talk in Catalonia about the Socialist Party, the Citizens, the People's Party and everything you represent. We could continue to talk about a people who refuse to be what we have voted to be on the basis of a world without borders, when you lift them very high and with knives at the top in Ceuta and Melilla. We could keep talking about you, PSOE, Citizens and PP based on... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u32	... on the basis of an immobile, sacred, sacrosanct Constitution, so as not to let ourselves be what we have voted to be, when you change it in one night in the unworthy article 135, on the payment of debt over social spending. The difference is that that night he did not vote any people, but he called them according to who from what office and sure that very kindly and changed it. Maybe she's not as sacrosanct or as sacred. We could keep talking about a people who say that if Catalonia became independent it would become a medieval republic that would wander through the outer space. When you govern a state with 750,000 families without income, with 800,000 people without health care, with 32 per cent child poverty, with 13 million poor, with 50 per cent youth unemployment, if that is not medieval and it is not wandering through outer space, go up here and explain it to us again. We could keep talking about people who have my partner Santi Vidal challenged, disqualified, for being independentist, while they have Bárcenas skiing in Baqueira, Rat summering on a yacht, Fabra buying lottery, Blesa eating in restaurant reservations and Martín Villa walking on the Retiro. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] We could keep talking about people who say that the Spanish is threatened, persecuted in Catalonia, when it is the second or third most spoken language on the planet, spoken by 500 million people, in a country, Catalonia, which had a Cordoba president named José Montilla. I don't know about you, but it's very difficult for me to imagine a Catalan president on which sites of the Spanish state. In fact, there one who doesn't want to be is constantly asking for forgiveness for being one. [[Applauds]] In addition, they say so in one country, in a state with 2.7 million poor children, many of whom eat properly once a day thanks to school meals. Those who say that the problem with the education system is that children study Catalan in Catalonia, apart from liars, are miserable. [[Applauds]] We could keep talking, Mr Sánchez, about your partners, about Citizens; we know them perfectly well in Catalonia. To believe that Albert Rivera is Winston Churchill and not Donald Trump is cured in Catalonia, I can assure you. [[Laughter and applause]] It heals in Catalonia seeing how they come out of the Parliament of Catalonia to not condemn Francoism. [[Applauds]] It heals in Catalonia by seeing how they defend neoliberal policies. Believing that Citizens are progressive, reformist or centered I can assure you that it is cured in Catalonia. We could keep talking about all that, but I have a first for all of you. [[A Member of Parliament: Let's see!]] We won them, we won PSOE, Citizens and the People's Party on 27 September. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u33	Mr. Rufián, please conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u34	We beat them as never, where never and with whom never; we beat them in front of an urn. We won a huge media and power machine. We are here simply to tell them to do themselves the favor of being democrats and to stop calling a crisis of coexistence a defeat. By the way, Mr Sánchez, the crisis of coexistence that you will have in the PSOE from today, I can assure you. [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u35	Mr. Rufián, finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u36	We're here to tell you, Mr. Sanchez, Mr. Rivera...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u37	But in ten seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u38	I'll be right there, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u39	Not right away, in ten seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u40	I'll be right there. I hope you're as benevolent as Mr. Rajoy.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u41	I am the one who is in charge of the debate and has ten seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u42	This process has transcended. The process of self-determination in Catalonia has transcended any origin, any surname, any language, any neighborhood or any flag. If the name is Tardà, if the name is Jordà, if the name is Eritja, if the name is Salvador, if the name is Capella, if the name is Olòriz, if the name is Surra - is Uruguayan - if the name is Capdevila, if the name is Rufián; but if the name is López, if the name is Lis, if the name is Smith, if the name is...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u43	Mr. Rufián, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u44	Here is our victory, but above all here is their defeat. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u45	You've finished your time, please. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Homs has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u46	Mr President, Mr President of the Government, Members, Members, Mr Candidature, three options have been clearly outlined in the debate, which seems to us to be on the table, and I would say that by this order, at least for the time being. It is a pure analysis, but it gives the feeling that it is the most widely shared. Three options: One is elections. This is always on the table when government cannot be formed. A great coalition, some who ask for it, has all the right of the world and it is legitimate to put it this way. Or a government of change, if it really is about changing the policies that existed so far. It's very simple. But a great coalition where the People's Party, the Citizens' Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party would be much less a government of change. This seems reasonable to put it this way because it is also a pure description of the facts. Of these three options, in our view, and I believe that this is also shared by many of you, the one that got the most support in the last elections was precisely that of a government of change. I'm not going to play now, as I've done before, with numbers, and less of people. In any case, what surely did not vote for citizenship on 20 December was to reconvene elections on 26 June. And what I sincerely believe that he did not vote, at least in mass, was the articulation of a great coalition. With this we already have a certain data to know how to direct the situation that we have these two months and later. Mr Sánchez, we will vote that no to the agreement that you have presented to us in this investiture debate for many reasons that we made known last Wednesday, but basically for two that are very simple, and I will say this in full. What we are proposing is not change, sincerely, nor does it involve, because it is not change, to take risks or to take on the challenges posed either in the economic or social fields or in that which is central to this investment - and I shall now refer to this - which is the question of Catalonia. That's right. You have made here today, as I see it, a purely procedural speech. It has given the feeling that he was scolding those who did not vote for him and he has not done, and this is even worse, not a single effort to create a somewhat different climate from Monday. It's my consideration, I leave it on the table. We are not going to give up our principles and our proposals, nor are we going to ask anyone. Let us see if we understand at once - and it is a plea that I make - that in order to sit down and speak it is not necessary for the other side to renounce what it stands for, what it believes in and what it stands for in the elections and which it stands for with impetuousness and conviction. I will never ask you to give up what you stand for, but what I ask you, and I think that is what we should put on the table from Monday, is no vetoes, availability to dialogue - in that you will find us - and ability, if there is one after dialogue, to try to reach agreements. Because of the arithmetic combination we have, and you've recognized it before, you have a lot of responsibility and little strength. This is almost dramatic or a great opportunity, it goes according to the character of each one. I don't know him enough, you'll know. But you have a lot of responsibility because any alternative government passes through you and your party, but you have little strength. Today's almost dramatic test is the one we will have in that vote. That being the case, as a final point, the political parties, and particularly the PSOE, should reflect; we all know that here. Don't take it as an approach to believing the center of the universe much less, but I sincerely believe that if the Catalan issue were not on the table today, there would be government. How are things! You, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, should make a calm reflection on whether, just as you have focused things today, it is possible to reach some kind of agreement that includes what it actually plans in the environment. Today Spain would have a government if it were not for the Catalan agenda, and you know it. I would like to use this rostrum - and I conclude with this, Mr President - to send a message to those who listen to us from outside, from the European environment and from the international community. We are going to defend what we are doing in Catalonia, which is nothing more and nothing less than a process of constitution of Catalonia as an independent state. We are not going to fail in this attempt, in this conviction and in this compromise, but we are prepared, in return for a referendum in Catalonia, Mr Sánchez, to give Spain a government. We are willing with this counterpart. [[Rumors]] I know that this may not be a good thing, especially for the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, but it is a message that is quiet. [[Rumors]] Yes, gentlemen, because it is a compromise of stability that is no less - and it will be even less in these two months - for these coming times. And I say this from the compromise and from the conviction that the path we have started is absolutely democratic. Mr Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen, we are not afraid of voting, so we are and will always be willing if we put an urn on the table to use it to defend our position, and I suppose you are. Mr Sánchez, I insist that you have a lot of responsibility and perhaps little strength, but what can happen in the next two months depends mainly on you and your political formation. I encourage you to take full responsibility for this. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u47	Thank you, Mr. Homs. I have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, candidate, in these two days there has been no movement in your position, nor in that of my political group. We are very aware of the time when we have been in the Spanish State for some time now. Reforms are needed at the economic level, but also at the institutional level. It's a complicated time and I'd say strategic too. Our party's commitment - and we made it known in the elections - is with stability and with trying to help there be a government, but you have chosen - it is in your right - and with your choice you have placed unnecessary pebbles on the way, in the form and in the background. In the form, because the partner does not make it easy to agree with others and, in the background, because that agreement that you have signed is so extensive that there are things that really make it difficult to reach another kind of agreement. Of course, if you want a government, I think you should think about removing some elements of that agreement or nurturing some elements of it. You have pointed out that in principle that is what you have, but I believe that a new stage is now opening and we must all think of your counterpart, that if you want an agreement, there are certain things that should be moved and mattized, cannot be everyone in immobilism. Our approaches have not found a minimally sufficient response from you and we cannot give you a blank check. You can't build majorities without a clear road map, even if it's minimal, and we understand it has to be minimal. You have asked before: do we want a government agreement? do we want or do we not want elections to take place? Well, I think a new phase is opening, but of course he does not feel sorry for the leader of his political party having been in Bilbao today distributing octavels - well, I'm supposed to know how to say it, right? - absolutely electoral in defense of the socialist government and its measures. [[Rumors]] [[Laughter]] Are we already in the electoral campaign or do we really want a government? Do we really want an agreement and do we really want to avoid the elections? A phase has passed; then tell her. I will talk about the future, because this has already happened and there are a number of lessons, but nothing more. Some of your colleagues have said that it was not necessary for you to talk about Euskadi and Catalonia in the speech because we were talking in general about Spain, that particularisms should not be made here. I don't share it. Here we all know that there is an institutional problem in the State, and it is not so much the right to decide or a mere compromise of competences, no; it is about talking to societies that prove and feel different from the rest of the State day after day. Therefore, it is a matter of talking about what you think of self-government for Euskadi and Catalonia. What do you think? I don't know yet. Beyond that commission that says it wants to open up to discuss a constitutional reform and mark the lines that could be assumed by the periphery, I do not know what its position is. I do not know what the position of the Socialist Party is and I need to know, if you need our support, both in terms of economics and finance and in terms of specific infrastructure, etc. Also in the field of education, because precisely our societies have special and different characteristics. I hope that this will be taken into account in the future, because a future President of the Government must speak specifically for those societies. This may be a moment of great opportunity for whoever is the next President of the Government. This can be an opportunity with the Catalan situation and with the disappearance of ETA violence; it can be an opportunity to make the necessary structural changes, but it is necessary to be brave, to take risks, to speak, to agree and to compromise. That is what the heads of government should really be made of. We are not closed to negotiating in the future. A new phase is opened and dialogue is necessarily required, on one side or another, but dialogue is required from next Monday. There you will find us, willing to try to find solutions and, if necessary, to forge agreements, but which respect the interests of all. In the meantime, we must vote no, because we will always be faithful to the mandate of our constituents and to our agenda. We've had forty years of good words. The good words and generalisations, Mr. candidate, are no longer sufficient. We're on another stage. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u49	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. As you know, there are seven political formations in the Joint Group that have the right to express themselves and we are going to give each of them exactly three minutes. Begin Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Rajoy, excuse me for insisting, but if you have won the elections - I remember that in the last parliamentary term your deputies came there and today they do not have a single partner - there is no way to win! Mr Rivera, the stake is a very serious thing for the Valencians, it generates many jobs and gives this country a lot of prestige. We're taking it seriously. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, yes to the three conditions, yes to the four questions, but at this stage of the debate there is already one thing clear: there is going to be a no and you are not going to be president, for the moment, and I stress: for the moment. That's why I want to emphasize a couple of ideas. First, that it does not hold us responsible for the failure of this agreement in which we have been mere guests of stone. Secondly, you spoke the other day about the Valencian government's document, about the Botànic Pact, and you said that we shared 80%, but there is a nuance that we do not share, and that is that the program that was signed between the PSOE, Podemos and Compromís has a government and applies it to a government, and that government is a government of the PSOE and Compromís supported by Podemos. Neither today nor the other day have we had the opportunity to hear who would apply this document. A monocolor government of the PSOE? That is not the message that the citizens gave us, which marked the path of plurality. A government with citizens? That would not, of course, be the Government of Compromises. Think that Citizens have expelled their councillors for the only crime of voting municipal governments where Compromís is - that's a high point of view and that's generosity -. Or, without going any further, yesterday vetoed a commission of inquiry in the Alicante Diputation of the last governments of the PP, where for eight years he was president of the Diputation an accused for corruption. [[Applauds]] However, there is a majority that I would add to make you president - I think many previous speakers have already said this - and to set up a real government of change. The Valencians need that government of change, we need a friendly government here in Madrid, but not at any price. Therefore, since Compromís we want to insist on the proposal we made two days ago. If with this document that you bring us today there is no majority for you to be invested president, you will have to make a new document that is able to generate that majority. We will have to sit down with those who do have enough votes with you, with the PSOE, and agree on a new agreement that will make possible a majority and therefore a government this time. Mr Sánchez, with this agreement today we cannot give you our confidence. Not today, not so, but on behalf of Compromís I continue to reiterate our will to continue speaking. Today's setback will not be a failure, but an excellent opportunity to exploit new possibilities. I have ten seconds left, Mr. President. Let's all put it on our side. It's possible; it's possible to change. I end up like the other day with a stanza of a song by Lluís Llach, which expresses a desire for the next few weeks, especially for those of us who are from here to there : Que tinguem sor t/ que trobem tout que nes nes ahir. [[referring to the placement of Members in the Chamber]] [[Let's be lucky and find everything we missed yesterday.]] We'll need it, but it's possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u51	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Garzón, you have the floor, too, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. It seems that at this point everything is practically said. We have to tell you, Mr Sánchez, that from the United Left-Popular Unity we have not understood this strategy which, of course, we do not share. We have not understood why after so many talks, after so long, in the end the result is to come with only 130 supports, more or less closed, with that agreement of Citizens and Socialist Party, instead of having opted for an alternative. We said that two days ago and, therefore, it seems that there is no need to be more insistent on this issue. We are not enemies, we are possible allies if the Socialist Party chooses the path of the left. That message has been repeated here by other formations. It would have been much more interesting to come here with at least 161 seats, even to have agreed on additional support that would be compatible with the Socialist Party's strategy of making you here today the president of our government, of our country, so that we can make leftist policies. We want to get the People's Party out of the government, of course, they have seen it in the last legislature; of course they have. But we want to do so not because we have nothing against each of the individuals who sit on that bench but because they make policies against the popular classes and we do not live in the realm of the sophists who insult and despise the truth. We are consistently consistent and when we have said in electoral campaign that Citizens is the new right it is because they respond to the same policies as the People's Party. That you have also said in an election campaign and we do not understand why you are now suddenly the allies of a government of change; we do not understand it because they have not changed. [[Applauds]] They haven't changed. We do not understand his strategy because his strategy is to repeat what happened in Andalusia: to despise, to attack on the left - to United Left in the case of Andalusia - to eventually end up disregarding all the policies that we had put on the table and to throw them in the trash of the hand of Citizens. That's what happened in Andalusia; we don't want that to happen right now in our country and we want to offer help. We have not asked for ministries, we have asked only for the opportunity to speak, one table at four. We meet whenever you want from today, next Monday, whenever, to reach an opportunity. We believe that this is the way, regardless of who the citizen Felipe de Borbón calls, because although he calls Mariano Rajoy I think it is important that we meet - regardless of that circumstance - to explore all the ways, because we believe that we connect with the majority feeling of the left-wing people and we believe that we also with the majority feeling of the citizenry. I end with one more thing, Mr Rivera, with one comment. The 1978 Constitution is the result of a transition that was indeed complex, but at that time it was chosen between democracy and dictatorship. And democracy did not bring it Fraga nor did Suárez bring it nor did Carrillo bring it, brought it by the people who fought in the street against the dictatorship, the working classes, the people who were there. [[Applauds]] Today, fortunately, we choose something else, we choose a new social model and therefore I speak to you here no longer only as a representative and spokesman for a million votes of the United Left-Popular Unity but as a member of the leadership of the Communist Party of Spain: do not use our history to justify your agreements. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u53	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. I now give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoitia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u54	Mr Sánchez, in the only three minutes I have - and after what I said two days ago - I would like to reiterate our vote against your investiture. Using your own arguments, even if you repealed the unjust laws passed by the People's Party and retreated into all of Mr Rajoy's antisocial policies - which you will not do as we read in the Citizens' Agreement - we would still be far from the quotas of rights and well-being achieved over decades of labor struggle. This is due to the policies of its predecessors, those of whom he said he felt proud like González or Zapatero that with the reforms initiated in the 1980s they opened the way to reduce rights and started a continuous escalation of regression that, although the right has accelerated it, has brought us to the current situation. What it offers us, therefore, is not a real, profound change, it is not walking towards social justice; you want citizenship to conform with small touches when the fracture that has created the policies of the last decades requires radical changes, the only way to overcome the precariousness, inequality, poverty that thousands of people suffer and that can be overcome, as well as the status of second-class citizens that we women suffer. But no, you do not want to listen to the citizens, their demands and needs as well as you do not want to listen to the demands of Euskal Herria who says loud and clear, as I am doing here today, who wants to reverse the situation and who wants to do so by deciding above all that affects him. In the face of this cry for more democracy, you - the signatories of the agreement and the PP - are only able to rescue the spirit of 78, to appeal to a constitution that a large majority in this Chamber did not even vote - neither are you, Mr Sánchez - and to deny any possibility of exercising a basic democratic principle. That is the main element that unites you three and should not surprise anyone who joins, putting Spain's sacrosanct unity before the well-being of the citizenry, and forming a great coalition for it. There will be those who think it is inconceivable, and seeing one another's desire for leadership is likely not to be easy, but I dare say that this desire is the only obstacle. And I say this to you, ladies and gentlemen, knowingly because in Nafarroa and in the Basque Autonomous Community, socialists and people have ruled together for the same purpose: unity of Spain, imposition and denial in the face of demands for democracy. That is why, Mr Sánchez, from tomorrow you have an opportunity to return to the values of the left and to put democracy before the law, as I explained the other day, do not miss it. I want to end up addressing Mr. Rivera. Stop talking about Bildu and dare to talk to Euskal Herria Bildu. Neither you nor Mr Sánchez have the political quality to speak with us. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: You do, you do!]] We have said since the first day that we have a hand stretched out to talk to everyone. You have not even been able to dialogue with this formation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Beitialarrangoitia. Mr Alli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I see that Bildu of Euskadi is still trying to speak on behalf of Navarra when he should not. In any case, Mr Sánchez, we will vote again not for your investiture for many reasons, as I said last Wednesday, but above all because you have closed the door to a broad consensus of the constitutionalist forces to bring this country forward. In addition, I want you to record that I value your courage and, above all, your good intentions, but this is not the time for just good intentions. This is not the time in this country for good intentions, nor is it the time for the insult to the people who worked in this Congress and who brought this country forward, those who set up the current system of rights, rights that protect us all, Mr. Iglesias. Nor is it the time for the demagogy and magical solutions of the ancient policy undressed in new phrases that have resulted so badly in Latin American countries like Venezuela. Nor is it time, ladies and gentlemen, to segregate this country and, much less, to return to the re-centralisation of some competences, above all, from the back to the uniqueness of this country, to its communities, to its peoples and to its people. Nor is it time, Mr Sánchez, for an amendment to the whole of a socio-economic model that has turned this country around in just four years. That it's better? Of course it's better, let's all work from moderation, consensus and centrality to reverse it. Union of the Navarro People will always be on the path of economic development as the best social policy, because employment is the best social policy. Ladies and gentlemen, none of us here generates employment, it is generated by the small entrepreneur, the self-employed, the entrepreneur, the company. That's why we have to be pushing them. Union of the Navarro People will also be with the family, which today, more than ever, is the best ministry of social protection. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, there are seventy-five days and we have achieved nothing. Today we still have the confidence that on 20 December we were given a great many Spaniards. Here we are to work on solutions. All of us here are supposed to be leaders, and leadership is based on two great values and principles. The first is humility and the second is generosity. What a better definition of serving - which is ultimately politics - than humility and generosity. From that humility and generosity, the Union of the Navarro People will be to help this country for our future and, above all, for future generations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u57	Thank you, Mr. Alli. Mr Martinez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u58	Mr President, we have attended the debate on the investiture of a candidate who already knew in advance that he would not be invested and who came to this House to make the paripé; a very negative fact, unprecedented in the annals of our parliamentary history. It cannot be surprising that Mr Sánchez's lack of respect for this House extended to one of the speakers who spoke to them on behalf of the Forum. You were very willing to talk about Catalonia, Euskadi, Galicia, Valencia, but about Asturias, the autonomous community immersed in the deepest decadence process in Spain, as all official statistical indicators point out, you only poured chascarrillos, Mr Sánchez. It is the best advance of insolidary Spain, of the inequalities sponsored by Mr Sánchez and Mr Rivera, both mounts and mounts so much. Nor can we base an offer of change for Spain on a slogan ramplón: Rajoy, no. Together for the no. We are the solution. Also worrying are the regenerative infiltrators of those who start by missing the word given to the voters and end by ignoring that corruption is the blood of the governments in order to impose their law of the funnel and throw a zamoran blanket on what happens in an Asturias governed by the PSOE, suffused by corruption that splashes on advisors, general directors, mayors, mayors, cultural managers and even port authorities and even trade unionists; all of them characters of pure socialist strain, although the curtain of the Cantábrica mountain range deprives the rest of the Spaniards of such an upbuilding spectacle. This is the synthesis of Mr Sánchez's candidacy: Paripé of debate, lack of respect for deputies, inequalities between Spaniards and the law of the funnel against corruption. Listening to your speeches, Mr.Sánchez, you seemed to me to be a worthy emulum of the gullible alcaraván: For others, advice; for itself, you did not have, as the wise Spanish saying says. I conclude, Mr President, by reiterating on behalf of the Forum the rejection of your investiture. And by what you presume, which we all remember on television, I have only one final doubt: If Mr. Sánchez is - at the same time for the tachygraphers - a decent person. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u59	Mrs Oramas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, our presence here, forty-eight hours after the first investiture debate, is the finding of the inability to do things in a better and different way. But we, the canarian nationalists, do not resign. It is no longer time for absolute majority, now we come to this Chamber to understand each other and those who do not assume it are far removed from reality. We owe it to the new generations born in democracy and who are the future of this country; we owe it to the citizens, who remain without government and, out of responsibility, decorum and height of sight, we owe it to ourselves. For this I offer you the example of the Canary Islands. Our recent past is made up of sacrifice, but we have been able to overcome years of hardship, emigration and crisis, looking forward with hope. Despite that humble past, we have always been supportive because we know that the survival of a people can only rise on the basis of generosity. That is the example I would have liked to have chaired these meetings because it is necessary to break urgently with a history of cuts and with the policies that have led us to this situation of blockade. We must not forget that as long as we do not agree here, outside, people still have problems to solve because the crisis has not ended for small businesses, for self-employed people, for pensioners and for families. Discussing in this House without reaching agreement does keep us from the hearts of the people. To follow at this point without government, yes it is old politics and to that, the canarian nationalists say no. We say no to intransigence and inability to dialogue. We say no to those who speak from resentment and resentment. We say no to the populism of those who confuse Congress with a television set. We say no to those who always told us no for four years and we say no to inequalities and job insecurity. Similarly, we say yes to those who have shown that there is always a way out. We say yes to those who, despite the difficulties, have done their job. We say yes to those who have parked their differences to seek common ground. We say yes by responsibility. We say yes because it is time to think about the citizens rather than the acronyms. We say yes to those who have understood that this country, its people, cannot wait. And we say yes because the Canary Islands can't wait any longer. We are going to say yes today to your investiture, Mr Sánchez, as a gesture to which we would like other groups to join in taking a first step towards that consensus that we are so much demanding. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Oh!-Applause]] Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mr Quevedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we unfortunately staged today in this plenary the conclusion of a stage of political blockade, which has characterized it from the conclusion of the last elections to this very moment. A situation in which nothing more or less has happened is that the will of the citizens has been defrauded, and this is everyone's responsibility. We say this because the will of the citizens expressed in the ballot box has been clear: change of policies and an alternative government to the previous one. Because the previous government - that's why it was like it was - what made it grow in the Spanish state was, at least, inequality and poverty. However, in today's event, something is happening that is not wrong either, and that is that an opportunity is being opened to reach consensus. A two-month chance in which we'll all have to prove whether we're up to it or not what we really have to do here. We know that it is not possible to reach an agreement to the full satisfaction of all the forces that can integrate a political agreement. This is not possible, we said it the other day. We will feel more and more uncomfortable to the extent that what can be agreed away from what is our idea, our political programme, that of New Canarias. However, that generosity, that responsibility is imperative to fulfil - we insist - the mandate of the citizens. And the mandate of the citizens is: understand you, as a different government, begin to act politically to solve the great problems posed by the social majority in the Spanish state. We have said that we applauded the value of the candidate who is running for nomination today or not - I am afraid it will be the second - because at a difficult time he accepted the order that rejected who should have accepted it in the first place. He has been able to do something that, apart from our criticisms, we have to highlight here today, which is to generate a proposal for actions that, however much it is to minimize, is on the table. Of course they're questionable! They're questionable, but they're an element to work with. That is why we have applauded that decision and announced our support for your investiture as President of the Government because we believe that you have done your job. Another thing is that this work is incomplete, because we have not been able to reach a definitive agreement. I have the absolute conviction that there is only one red line left at this political moment in the Spanish state, and that red line is: in no case new elections. New elections are a failure of all of us; a failure of politics and truly betray the majority will of the citizens expressed in the last elections on 20 December. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u63	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. To conclude this speaking time, Mr Hernando has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President-in-Office, Mr Rajoy, I will tell you with all due respect: an investiture session commissioned by the head of state is never corruption, and you should know that. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And for the dignity of what you represent, you should withdraw it, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] And do you want to leave this gentleman as President of the Government in office? [[Applause.-Rumors.-Several Members of the Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea make negative signs]] Five minutes, four thoughts. The other day two images were used in this House which summarize two philosophies of moving forward in the complicated orography of the House: The embrace, of Genovese, and The surrender of Breda. Using one or another box to summarize the agreement between PSOE and Citizens was a whole declaration of intent. The embrace is the reunion and the spears surrender after months of siege with the delivery of the keys of the city, that is, of power. And that is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that some are in the war symbolism, in the siege, in the assault on the heavens or in the assault on power, perhaps because they think that here they have enemies and not political opponents. [[Applauds]] But the Spaniards expect from us a solution that comes from dialogue, from conciliation, from the agreement between different, that is, from transversality and not from the break-up of any unity. The agreement is not surrender, The embrace sums up the spirit of the transition, which I hope will return to this House, which is where it was forged. Second thought. When the Congress attacks, disqualifies, thunders against the political adversary in order to be more incisive, more aggressive, an expansive wave emerges from the walls of the Chamber. It's like throwing a stone in the middle of a lake; the waves that generate insults and disqualifications impact on the 'Diary of Sessions', but out of here they generate hard-to-close wounds and leave deep scars. That is the worst way to reach agreements and to want to reach them, if there really is any intention to do so. [[Applauds]] To banish anger, grudge, anger, and frivolities is going to be essential. We are all people of deep conviction and defend them with enthusiasm and vehemence, but in today's Spain, more than ever, the Congress of Deputies should serve to build new bridges and not to open new wounds. Third reflection. For many months we have heard on television and read in 140 characters that the difference between left and right no longer existed, that it was a fallacy maintained by trilers and that the new paradigm was the new and the old. And what's our surprise today? For it is precisely the ideology with which a real wall is to be built. I never believed in the end of ideologies, and I always knew that what the left and the right were outdated categories was a trickery that was used as a mere excuse to open up a space. Open space, now yes, ideology is again valid for some to raise a wall. But, look, there's nothing older than front policy or nothing more obsolete and empty than taking you away from me. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Last thought. In this agreement that we have signed between Citizens and the Socialist Party there are 140 measures that could have the support of 200 seats. The agreement is open to the sum and I want you to take into account the power of your vote; the power of a vote in democracy is the most important thing. [[Mrs. Surra Spadea utters words that are not perceived]] With their vote, 750,000 families can have a living income, 5 million workers can have a collective agreement, 4 million workers with temporary contracts improve their situation and deputies and senators go to testify to an instructional court, like any other citizen. [[Mrs. Surra Spadea, standing up, puts her hands on the gesture of dead time, while uttering words that are not perceived]] You may be able to wait, some had even decided to stop the clock of democracy because they preferred to enjoy from the watchmanship of their functions, but millions of people have been waiting a long time and can no longer. Every week 500 families suffer foreclosure, every week 3,000 young people engross the lists of unemployment. [[Majoral Perales speaks words that are not perceived]] [[Rumors]] They hoped that today we would set up a government to deal with their problems. With the power of their vote they could respond to these people, they could make the possible change. Let us use civic value or harmony to make possible a change without winners or losers. Finally, instead of talking about mouth-strung hands, take courageous steps, as the Socialist Party candidate has done, to which I would like again to acknowledge his work and initiative, because with this vote today we have won the future, and the future will be the agreement. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u65	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, because once the debate is over... yes? [[Mr Girauta Vidal asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u66	Mr President, I would like to invoke Rule 71(3) of the Rules of Procedure because of the lack of decorum and the dignity of this parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u67	And what do you want? Is it an allusion shift? [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u68	No, they're not allusions. Article 71.3. Someone has missed the decorum and dignity of my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u69	What time?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u70	Mr. Rufián, to whom please would like to answer.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u71	When did he say what? To know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u72	When you said that Citizens have not condemned Francoism. [[Protests.-Mr.Hernando Fraile: We all ask.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u73	No, no, let's see... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u74	This is a lie they often repeat. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u75	The turn of allusions corresponds exclusively when there is a judgment of value or a falsehood...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u76	It's a blatant falsehood.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u77	I'm not done.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u78	Excuse me, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u79	If there is a falsehood, you have thirty seconds to say that that is indeed false. Point.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u80	All right. In the worst tradition of propaganda, Mr. Rufián believes that repeating a lie a thousand times makes it true. A speech can be more or less tortuous, like Mr. Rufian's... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u81	No, that's an assessment of the speech. No, no. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u82	What cannot be is slanderous and there is a slander and a flagrant lie. Citizens condemned Francoism for the last time on 27 September 2013 in the Catalan Parliament with Republican Left, because we voted when it comes to condemning dictatorships with Mr Rufián's party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u83	Thank you, cleared up the falsehood. That's it. [[Mr Hernando Fraile asks for the floor]] And now for what? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u84	Mr. President, you know there are no shifts for allusions on this particular shift...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u85	Mr. Hernando...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u86	...yet, you've had...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u87	Mr. Hernando. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u88	...you've had the mistake... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u89	Mr. Hernando, shut up now.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u90	...the mistake of giving the word... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u91	Mr Hernando, the point of order is always covered by the Rules of Procedure, so always do not try to interpret the Rules of Procedure, do not try to twist them. The round of allusions always exists in the Rules of Procedure and in this House. The discussion is over and I don't have the word anymore The discussion is over. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile, who continues standing: No, no, excuse me.-Mr. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, standing: By the 71.3]] I know that... [[Protests.-Mr.Hernando Fraile: You don't know what I'm going to tell you.-Mr. Floriano Corrales: Listen to him!-Mr.Hernando Fraile: Listen, listen.]] But I've heard your argument. Let's see, it's started... [[Protests]] Quiet, a little education and a little respect for the presidency. You see, you have begun your speech by saying that I knew that there was no allusion shift on this shift, which is false because the allusion shift always exists in this House when the circumstances for the allusions are given. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: Mr. President...]] Therefore, from there, the discussion is over. There was an allusion to a falsehood that they wanted to prove as such, it has been made and point, the discussion is over. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: Mr. President...-Protests]] Let's see, Mr. Hernando, what does that mean beyond...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u92	Yes, of course, if you leave me, if you don't interrupt me and leave me a little explaining to you what the procedure is and what I ask you. [[Mr Luena López and Mrs González Veracruz speak words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u93	The procedure doesn't explain it to me.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u94	You have opened up the possibility of doing this round for allusions, and I now ask you, under Article 71.3, also that round. Why, Mr. President? Because there have also been references to the President of the Government in office and a falsehood has been said.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u95	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u96	Yeah, yeah. A falsehood has been said, a very serious falsehood.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u97	Which one?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u98	The one Mr Hernando used to say that we said it was a corruption the king's decision. [[Protests]] That you know is not true and Mr. Hernando too, therefore, I ask you to remove yourself from the... [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u99	It's over. [[Mr Hernando Fraile: I ask you to comply with the Rules of Procedure, Articles 103 and 104.-Protests]] No, no, I know that many people are used to using this kind of parliamentary filibusterism to have the floor when it does not belong to them. [[Protests.-Several Members: That's not true]] Yeah, man, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u100	Mr President, you are insulting the spokesman of this group, pretending that I have misused the Rules of Procedure and you know that is not true. You have just arrived in this House and you have behaved since you have arrived in it as a true arbitrary...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u101	You don't have the floor, Mr Hernando. Mr Hernando, you don't have the floor. [[Mr. Luena López: He is the president of Congress.-Applause]] I may have come to this House now, but I know perfectly well what parliamentaryism is and what the Rules of Procedure are. [[Rumors.-Mr. Hernando Fraile shows the rules of the Congress of Deputies]] Yeah, yeah, that rule. That's it, the discussion's over. There are no more speaking shifts. It's over. [[Protests.- Mr Tardá i Coma and Mr Rufián Romero, standing, ask for the floor.- A Member of Parliament: A duet!]] No, no, the argument is over. Mr. Tardà, you don't have... and less than two in two. [[Rumors]] Sit down, sit down, please, a little quiet. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Don't get nervous]] No, if I'm not gonna get nervous, don't worry. The Regulation states that there are allusions from the groups only when falsehoods or value judgments have been made. [[Mrs. Jordà i Roura: No, no]] Will you let me conclude? There has been an assertion by the Republican Left Group that it has been understood as a falsehood by the Citizens Group, arguing that what they had said was indeed not true. Is that how it was? [[Mrs. Jordà i Roura: It is true!-Mr. Olòriz Serra: It is true!-Mr. Rivera Díaz teaches a document]] Let's see. Don't worry. It seems that there is a document showing how the Citizens' Group... [[Rumors]] And from there the discussion is over. That's it. Let's go through with the procedure. [[Rumors]] That's it, it's over. [[Mr. Tardà i Coma makes negative gestures]] As set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House, we shall continue with the vote. The vote will be taken by appeal and your ladies and gentlemen will answer yes, no or abstention from your seat. [[Mr Tardà i Coma: Mr President, that is not true!]] You can scream all you want, but you don't have the floor. [[Mr Tardà i Coma speaks words that are not perceived]] You do not have the floor, Mr Tardà. [[Mr.Tardà i Coma: It is not true and you do not give me the floor to prove that it was false!]] Mr. Tardà, sit down and remain silent if you don't want me to call you to order. [[Mr Tardà i Coma: Please give me the floor!]] Mr. Tardà, I call you to order for the first time. [[Mr Tardà i Coma: We demand that you give us the floor!- Several Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left stand up]] Mr. Tardà, I call you to order for the first time. Sit down. [[Mr Tardà i Coma: we ask you to give us the floor!]] You don't have the floor and that's it. We shall continue with the vote. When calling Members or Members, answer the call with a clear and audible yes, no or abstention from your seat, although the Secretaries who call them will repeat the meaning of the vote to avoid difficulties. The appeal, as you know, will be made in alphabetical order, but beginning with the first name of the honourable Member whose name will now be drawn in luck. The Government in office and the Bureau shall vote at the end. So let us proceed to the drawing. [[Pause]] The number has been 154 and corresponds to Hernanz Costa, Sofia, who will be the first to vote. I ask the secretary to begin the vote first. The secretaries of the Bureau make an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'Yes': Hernanz Costa, Sofia Hervías Chirosa, Francisco Javier Hurtado Zurera, Antonio Igea Arisketa, Francisco Jiménez Tortosa, Juan Lafuente de la Torre, Monica Lamuà Estañol, Marc Lasarte Iribarren, José Javier Lastra Fernández, Adriana López Milla, Julián Lorenzo Rodríguez, Sunday Lozano Sunday, Irene Lucio Carrasco, María Pilar Luena López, Caesar Martín González, María Guadalupe Martin Llaguno, Marta Martínez González, José Luis Martínez Seijo, María Luz Maura Barandiaran, Fernando Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio Miguel Muñoz, Orlena María Millán Salmerón, María Virginia Molinary Malo, Ramon Luis Muñoz González, Pedro José Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez, Fernando Oramas González-Moro, Ana María Palacín Guarné, Gonzalo Peña Waiter, Esther Perea and Conillas, María Mercè Pérez Domínguez, María Soledad Pérez Herraiz, Margarita Pracht Ferrer, Carlos Pradas Torres, Antonio Francisco Friend Romero, Fidel Quevedo Iturbe, Pedro Rallo Lombarte, Artemi Vicent Ramírez Freire, Saul Ramon Utrabo, Elvira Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin Raya Rodríguez, Maria Tamara Rivera Andrés, Irene Rivera de la Cruz, Marta María Rivera Díaz, Albert Rodríguez Fernández, María Luz Rodríguez García, Isabel Rodríguez Hernández, Juana Amalia Rodriguez Hernández, Melisa Rodriguez Ramos, María Soraya Rodriguez Sánchez, Germán Rodríguez Vázquez, Antonio Roldán Monés, Antonio Romingera Salazar, María del Mar Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos Salvador García, Luis Miguel Sánchez Amor, José Ignacio Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, Pedro Saura García, Pedro Close Parent, David Serrano Boigas, Pilar Auxiliadora Serrano Jiménez, María Jesús Sicily Ensign, Philip Jesus Sierra Rojas, Patricia Simancas Simancas, Rafael Partners Puig, Ramón Antonio Such Palomares, Maria Sumelzo Jordan, Susana Ten Oliver, Vicente Torres Mora, José Andrés Trevín Lombán, Antonio Ramón María Urquizu Sancho, Ignacio Villegas Pérez, José Manuel Yáñez González, Pablo Zaragoza Alonso, José Abalos Meco, José Luis Alconchel Gonzaga, Miriam Antón Cacho, Javier Barreda Fontes, José María Batet Lamaña, Meritxell Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia Botella Gómez, Ana Maria Well, Prado, Enrique. Calle Fuentes, José Antonio Camacho Sánchez, José Miguel Villar Camera, Gregorio Campo Moreno, Juan Carlos Fields of Craftsmanship, Herick Manuel Cancel Rodriguez, Pilar Cano Fuster, José Cano Leal, Francisco Javier Carrera de Castro, Zaida Singing García del Moral, Antonio Chacon Picqueras, Carme Clemente Giménez, Diego Cello Pérez, Carmen Rocío De Frutos Madrazo, María del Rocío De la Encina Ortega, Salvador Antonio De la Torre Díaz, Francisco De Campo Estaún, Sergio From the Moral Milla, Mary of Peace. Diaz Trillo, José Juan Elorza González, Odón Faba de la Incarnation, Elena Fernández Diaz, Jesús María Ferrer Treasure, Sonia Florez Rodríguez, María Aurora Franchise Vera, Sebastian Galeano Gracia, Oscar Gallego Arriola, María del Puerto Galovart Carrera, María Dolores Garaulet Rodríguez, Miguel Ángel García Mira, Ricardo Antonio Vidal Swivel, Juan Carlos Girela de la Fuente, José Manuel Gomez Balsera, Marcial Gómez García, Rodrigo González Bayo, Josefa Immaculate González Martínez, Onesimo Eduardo González Ramos, Manuel Gabriel González Veracruz, María Gordo Pérez, Juan Luis Guinart Moreno, Lidia Gutiérrez Limones, Antonio Gutiérrez Vivas, Miguel Ángel Heredia Díaz, Miguel Ángel Hernandez Spínola, Francisco Hernando Vera, Antonio Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'No': Herrero Bono, José Alberto Homs Molist, Francesc Honorato Chulián, María Auxiliadora Hole Juliá, Bethlehem Iglesias García, Fernando Turrion Churches, Pablo Manuel Isac García, Angels Isern Estela, Mateo Jordan and Roura, Teresa Juncal Rodríguez, Juan Manuel Lara Carbo, Maria Teresa of Lasalle Ruiz, José María Legarda Uriarte, Mikel Lopez Ares, Susana López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio Lorenzo Torres, Miguel Luis Bail, Jorge Luis Rodríguez, Theophilus of Madrazo Díaz, Ana Maria Marcello Santos, Ana Marcos Moyano, María Dolores Marí Bosó, José Vicente Marshal Anaya, Guillermo Martín González, Lucia Martínez Dalmau, Rubén Martínez Oblanca, Isidro Manuel Martínez Rodríguez, María Rosa Martínez Saiz, Theophila Martínez-Maillo Toribio, Fernando Martín-Toledano Suárez, José Alberto Matarí Sáez, Juan José Mateu Istúriz, Jaime Miguel Matos Mascareño, Pablo Maura Zorita, Eduardo Javier Mayoral Perales, Rafael Medina Suárez, María Isabel Mena Arca, Joan Miquel Merino López, Rafael Molinero Hoyos, Francisco Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra Montero Gil, Irene Maria Montero Soler, Alberto Montserrat Montserrat, Dolors Moragas Sánchez, Jorge Moreno Bustos, Ramon Moreno Palanques, Rubén Moro Almaraz, Mary Jesus Moya Matas, Jaume Nadal Belda, Álvaro María Navarro Lacoba, Carmen Nieto Ballesteros, José Antonio Nugueras and Camero, Miriam Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo de Olòriz Serra, Joan Baptista Paniagua Nuñez, Miguel Ángel Pascual Peña, Sergio Pastor Muñoz, Rosana Pérez Aras, Juan Vicente Pérez López, Santiago Pita Cárdenes, Maria del Camen Posada Moreno, Jesus Postius Terrado, Antoni Quintanilla Barba, María del Carmen Ramirez del Molino Morán, Alejandro Reynés Calvache, Águeda Ribera i Garijo, Elena Roca Mas, Jordi Rodríguez Martínez, Angela Rodríguez Rodríguez, Alberto Rojas García, Carlos Red Noguera, Pillar Miracles Romero Hernández, Carmelo Romero Rodríguez, María Eugenia Rosell Aguilar, Maria Victoria Rufián Romero, Gabriel Salvador Armendáriz, Carlos Casimiro Salvador i Duch, Jordi Sanchez Maroto, Sol Sánchez Melero, Tania Sánchez Serna, Javier Santa Ana Fernández, María de la Concepción de Santos Itoiz, Eduardo Sibine Camps, Marta Sorli Fresquet, Marta Suárez Lamata, Eloy Surra Spadea, Ana Maria I'm late for Coma, Joan. Tarno Blanco, Ricardo Terraces Vineyards, Pains Terron Berbel, Ana Belén Valmaña Ochaíta, Silvia Vazquez Rojas, Juan María Vendrell Gardeños, Josep Vera Proro, Juan Carlos Vera Ruiz-Herrera, Noelia Vidal Sáez, Aina Old vineyard, Raimundo Vila Gómez, Miguel Viso Diéguez, Miguel Ángel Xucla i Costa, Jordi Yllanes Suárez, Juan Pedro Zoido Alvarez, Juan Ignacio Agirretxea Ursti, Joseba Andoni Alba Goveli, Nayua Miriam Albadalejo Martínez, Joaquín Alli Martínez, Iñigo Jesús Alonso Cantorné, Felix Alonso Clusa, Rosa Ana Alós López, Ana Isabel Alvarez Simon, Maria Elena Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros, María del Carmen Angle Romero, Maria Teresa Ardanza Uribarren, María Pilar Acute Casting, Pedro Asian González, Matilde Pastora Ayala Sánchez, Andrés José Ayllón Manso, José Luis Azpiazu Uriarte, Pedro María Under Prieto, Maria Luz Baldoví Roda, Joan Ballester Muñoz, Angela Barandiaran Benito, Íñigo Barrachina Ros, Miguel Barreda de los Ríos, Leopoldo Barrios Tejero, José María Bastida Bono, Elena Maria Battle and Ruiz, Enric Beitialarrangement Lizarralde, Marian Nice Accensi, Ferran Belarus Urteaga, Ione Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio Bescansa Hernández, Carolina Blasco Marqués, Manuel Bonilla Dominguez, Mary Jesus Borrego Cortés, Isabel María Bosaho Gori, Rita Gertrudis Botejara Sanz, Amparo Bravo Baena, Juan Good luck, David. Bravo Ibáñez, My Conception Higgins, David Burgos Gallego, Thomas Bustinduy Amador, Pablo Camps Devesa, Gerardo Campuzano i Canadés, Carles Candle Serna, Ignasi Candon Adam, Alfonso Capdevila Esteve, Joan Chapel and Farre, Esther Carreño Fernández, María Ascension Carreño Valero, Sara Married White, Pablo Cascals Martínez, Loreto Barber Boy, José María Ciuro i Buldo, Lourdes Clavell López, Oscar Courtesy Bureta, Pilar From Cospedal García, María Dolores De la Concha García-Mauriño, María Asunción Jacoba Pía Del Olmo Ibáñez, Juan Manuel From the Sanz River, Emilio Delgado Arce, Celso Luis Delgado Ramos, Juan Antonio Díaz Pérez, Yolanda Domènech Sampere, Francesc Xavier Dominguez Álvarez, Marta Dueñas Martínez, María del Carmen Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio Eiros Bouza, José María Enbeita Maguregi, Onintza Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier Errejón Galván, Íñigo Berzal Squadron, Beatriz Marta Spain Queen, Carolina Esteban Bravo, Aitor Fernández Bello, Miguel Anxo Elias Fernández Castañón, Sofia Fernández de Moya Romero, José Enrique Fernández García, Eduardo Fernández Gómez, Alexandra Floriano Corrales, Carlos Javier Franco Carmona, Isabel García Cañal, José Ramón García Díez, Joaquín María García Aegean, Theodoro García Hernández, José Ramón García Puig, María del Mar García Urbano, José María García-Pelayo Jurado, María José García-Tizón López, Arturo Garrido Valenzuela, Irene Garzón Espinosa, Alberto Gomez de la Serna and Villacieros, Pedro Ramón Gómez-Reino Varela, Antonio González García, Second González Guinda, María del Carmen González Muñoz, Ángel Luis González Terol, Antonio Pablo González Vázquez, Marta War Mansito, María Belén Guijarro García, Txema Hernando Fraile, Rafael Antonio Government members in office who said 'No': Rajoy Brey, Mariano Sáenz de Santamaría Antón, María Soraya García-Margallo y Marfil, José Manuel Catalá Polo, Rafael Montoro Romero, Cristóbal Ricardo Fernández Díaz, Jorge Pastor Julián, Ana Maria Mendez de Vigo Montojo, Íñigo Báñez García, María Fatima Soria López, José Manuel García Tejerina, Isabel Alonso Aranegui, Alfonso Members of the Bureau who said 'Yes': Reyes Rivera, Patricia Isaura Take Take, José Ignacio Navarro Garzón, Micaela López Álvarez, Patxi. Members of the Bureau who said 'No': Exposito Prieto, Marcelo Sánchez-Camacho Pérez, Alicia Romero Sánchez, Rosa María Elizo Serrano, Maria Gloria Villalobos Talero, Celia
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u102	Has any honourable Member not been appointed to vote? [[Pause]] We shall proceed to the scrutiny of the votes cast. [[Pause]] Made the count, he said
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-04-CD160304.u103	The voting was as follows. Votes cast, 350; votes in favour, 131; votes against, 219; abstentions, none. In the absence of the required majority and, consequently, in the absence of the House's confidence in the investiture, this circumstance shall be communicated to His Majesty the King for the purposes of article 99.4 of the Constitution. The meeting rose. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] It was eight and fifty-five minutes of the night.
