ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We begin with the item on the agenda for the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. We do so with Royal Decree-Law 1/2016 of 15 April, which extends the activation program for employment. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Employment and Social Security has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the effort and commitment of all Spanish society, Spain is now experiencing a solid economic recovery with intense job creation. We just got the data... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I said that we have just heard the data from the labour force survey for the first quarter of the year, and they certify that once the calendar effects have been corrected, the rate of job creation in Spain has accelerated, i.e. in annual terms, employment growth is maintained around 600,000 jobs per year. We are talking about an employment creation rate of 3.29%, the best figure since 2007. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that thanks to the efforts of Spanish society, employment in our country has come to stay and is a source of hope, but we are also very aware - very conscious - that we have a long way to go, because there are many Spaniards -4 million - who want to work, who deserve to work and who cannot do it yet. Ladies and gentlemen, from this reality that Spain is experiencing today, in 2016, I am coming before you to present the Royal Decree-Law 1/2016 of 15 April, extending the activation programme for employment and also the retraining programme for those who exhaust their unemployment benefit, known as the "Preparation". These are emergency rules with which the Government intends to continue measures that have been built since the social dialogue and on a basis of consensus. What we want with them is to make sure that programmes continue at this time and that their potential beneficiaries, precisely those most vulnerable in our labour market and most affected by the economic crisis - the long-term unemployed - have a reason for hope. It said, ladies and gentlemen, that these measures were built on the basis of a social consensus around two basic ideas: that the exit from the crisis would be the result of the coordinated effort of an entire country and that full recovery would come when it reached all the Spaniards who wanted to work, and that we would make an exceptional effort as a society so that no one would be left behind in recovery. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the spirit that inspired Mariano Rajoy's government from the very beginning was that, and that is why, since the first Council of Ministers on 30 December 2011, measures were taken to support the most vulnerable, at very difficult times for our country. Two important social measures were taken at the time. The first, the upgrading of pensions and, the second, support for the most vulnerable, with the extension of the Prepara programme, which was launched by the previous Government of Spain. We thus began the X Legislature and ended this brief legislature also by supporting the long-term unemployed in the extension that we bring to validation today. Because, ladies and gentlemen, employment and supporting the most vulnerable in the labour market is and remains the priority of Spain, the priority of the Government but also the priority of the social partners, of the autonomous communities, I am sure that of all parliamentary groups and of all Spanish society. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has suffered a major economic and social crisis over the past few years and the social consequences of that crisis still remain, but these social consequences have undoubtedly had much to do with the dramatic destruction of employment that took place in Spain. I'm going to give you three data that certifies what I just said. Between 2008 and 2011, the first phase of the crisis, with similar falls in gross domestic product, Spain destroyed four times more jobs than Italy, seven times more than the United Kingdom and thirteen times more than France. Therefore, the social crisis in the form of job destruction in our country was greater. This increased unemployment in our country explains that half of the Europeans at risk of poverty between 2007 and 2011 did so in Spain, half, and that the number of people at risk of poverty grew twice as much in our country, for example, as in Italy and fourteen times more than in France. Third: the highest unemployment also explained that the Gini index, which measures inequality, for example, grew 13 times more in Spain than the euro area average. That is the reality of the deep social crisis that our country began to experience at the beginning of 2011. In view of this situation, it was urgent to do two things: to re-create employment as soon as possible, because inequality was explained in Spain by 90% by the destruction of employment, and to help the unemployed quickly return to the labour market, I insist, supporting those who had it most difficult. And that was also the result of coordinated work with the autonomous communities and the social partners in the past years of the legislature. This is why, for example, a special programme for young people was launched, the result of a social pact, which was called a youth employment and entrepreneurship strategy, which allowed, with a hundred measures for young people, more than 1,200,000 of them, in all these years, since 2013, to have 1.2 million opportunities for training, self-employment or employment for others. As a result of this dialogue and coordination between the autonomous communities, the Government of Spain and the social partners, we have launched new programmes to cater for the long-term unemployed, with the aim, I insist, that no one should be left behind in the recovery. Thus the agreement between the government and the social partners was born which was called 'proposals for tripartite negotiations to strengthen economic growth and employment', which was signed in Moncloa, in the presence of the president of the government, in July 2014. In the above-mentioned tripartite agreement, as you are well aware, social protection and activation for employment were understood as deeply connected areas and as an opportunity to return quickly to the labour market to the people who had it most difficult and the Special Activation Plan for Employment was born in December 2014 to give new opportunities to those unemployed with more difficulties. It was and is fundamental, ladies and gentlemen, that no one should be relegated to recovery. That was the essence, the soul of that social covenant, and that is also the essence, the soul, and the reason for approving today and maintaining these two programs to continue to give hope to those people who have it most difficult. On the one hand, I told you, we extended the activation programme for long-term unemployed people who have family burdens and who have no family income; it therefore combines active employment policies, which manage the public services of the autonomous communities, with a complementary financial aid of 80% of the Iprem that will be paid by the State Public Employment Service. I told them that it is a last resort programme, for those long-term unemployed who have family responsibilities, who have exhausted all their benefits, who have no income and who are also actively seeking employment. I would remind you that this programme has a new feature, which is the possibility of making the additional benefit of EUR 426 compatible for the first time with the salary when they start their activity in the labour market, as a fundamental way of facilitating the employment of the unemployed. It is a programme, as I said, which has received the support of the social partners and the sincere commitment of all the autonomous communities; and I sincerely believe, humbly, that it is a programme that is working, the results of the assessment that we have made with both the social partners and the autonomous communities demonstrate this, are hopeful results. Until 15 April 2016, ladies and gentlemen, through this programme, 166,322 people have been served, who have received a personalized itinerary of guidance and sometimes also of training for public employment services. Of these persons, 103,784 have also received a supplementary economic benefit of EUR 426. Therefore, 104,000 Spanish families have help at this time of difficulty. Furthermore, I would like to point out, because it seems to me to be a relevant fact, that this new programme that we have launched with the social partners has had on average 16% of employment integration, which is very important because it multiplyes the normal rate of integration of public employment services by five, and there are autonomous communities in Spain, ladies and gentlemen, where the level of integration of the people who went through this programme has reached almost 30%. It has therefore been an effective activation tool. Finally, I would also like to point out as a result of that assessment that 87% of those beneficiaries who matched the benefit of EUR 426 and the salary - 87% who matched it - today maintain employment and have been definitively inserted into the labour market. The figures alone therefore speak of this collective success of the commitment between the social partners, the autonomous communities and the Government of Spain. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that we have all learned from that assessment and we know where we can improve the programme so that, among other things, more people who are still suffering the effects of a very long crisis in our country can get there. I am sure from the experience we share with the government, the autonomous communities, the social partners and many of the parliamentary groups... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u6	...we will study where these areas of improvement will be so that the next Government of Spain will not be able to increase the integration capacity of that group so fundamental for the recovery to reach everyone in our country. Therefore, the extension of the special activation and extension programme also, ladies and gentlemen, of the Preparation programme. A programme whose extension we made permanent until the unemployment rate fell by 20% in Spain. Thanks to this program, which is a special program as well, 650,000 people have been favored since 2012 until today. The goal, I insist, is a collective commitment of Spanish society to those who had it most difficult in the labour market. Therefore, if I may say so, it is legally and socially urgent to continue with them. The circumstances require this because with the extension of the Special Activation Plan for a year that we approve today, the possibility of applying for this program is extended until April 15, 2017. Secondly, the changes in the Prepara programme will automatically extend until the unemployment rate in Spain falls by 18%. We are therefore talking about greater confidence and hope for the most vulnerable people in our country, who are, among others, the long-term unemployed. The potential beneficiaries of this programme, ladies and gentlemen, are 225,000 people and the investment made by the Government of Spain in this programme is around 552 million euros; investment in people, investment in those who have it most difficult to return to the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, they are reasons of undoubted social importance, they are reasons of general interest for which we want to approve and validate this royal decree because, as President Rajoy said at the beginning of the legislature, recovery in Spain will not be complete until everyone who wants to work can do so because, moreover, it deserves it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that all members of this House share two fundamental things: that Spain continues to create jobs so that opportunities reach all and that no one is left behind in recovery. That is why, from the Government of Spain and from all the institutions, such as this House, we must continue to help those who have it most difficult on their return to the labour market. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I encourage all the parliamentary groups to join in the struggle for employment and for the opportunities of those who have it most difficult, the long-term unemployed in Spain. I encourage you all to add to the employment with that yes that I hope of all to the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you all so much for that, I'm sure you'll give. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u7	Thank you, Minister. In order to establish positions, Mrs Sánchez has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u8	With regard to the activation programme for employment, the first thing I want to say after listening to the minister is that, of course, we are not going to be against it; now, much less the results are to be so complacent. That's right, since we modified some parameters of this rule, we could modify a few more. We will support validation but, of course, the criteria for increasing the coverage of measures should first be broadened, in response to the fact that the beneficiaries of this aid, rather than 100,000, could actually amount to 400,000, as the trade unions have indicated. Only 16,000 placements have been achieved, and in fact we do not even know whether or not these jobs have had anything to do with the implementation of the measures under this programme. Another flaw we see is spending and budget allocation. Of the €850 million budgeted in 2015, less than 20% was implemented, leaving €690 million that I believe, with the number of unemployed without any coverage, is not welcome. In the course of 2016, of a budget of 350 million we have implemented only 6.3%, which proves that we are on the same path as in 2015. The social partners and, in particular, the trade unions - to which I refer with the data I am giving them - call for the removal of the barriers that make it impossible for a good number of unemployed and unemployed to benefit from the measures. It seems that there is an intention to deal with some of them, but others, such as abolishing the requirement to have family burdens or the period that must have elapsed since the exhaustion of unemployment benefits or benefits or other income to be collected, have also not been eliminated. If the standard can be revised to set that unemployment rate, the standard could also have been revised to cover a larger number of people. The Government has already stated that there are issues that can or cannot be studied, but if, as the Minister said, the objective is to cover more of the unemployed, we do not understand that they are precisely the most restrictive ones that cannot be altered or modified. We are therefore going to support validation because we are not prepared for more than 100,000 unemployed to be left without coverage, but we believe that this is not what the Government somehow advertises because it is a law that, although it is going to cover 100,000 unemployed people - which is very well - leaves 300,000 more, which should be covered in this respect, without any coverage whatsoever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have come up to this rostrum and not to talk about the content of substantive and active policies to support the long-term unemployed, but, unfortunately, to speak again - and there are already too many - of an interference which, with all due respect, we consider to be illegitimate on the part of the executive of the State towards the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Apart from the good intentions, which we also share, the royal decree-law whose validation is requested of us proposes the extension of a legal text that is appealed to the Constitutional Court: the appeal 1571/2015, which is in turn a continuation of others, such as the one that came before the Plan Prepares, precisely because despite having transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country through the Royal Decree 2441/2010 the functions and services in the field of the implementation of labour law, in the field of work, employment and vocational training for the employment carried out by the Public Service of State Employment, that Royal Decree-Law 16/2014 what it wanted was to camouflage part of its content as if it were a social security service even though its nature did not correspond to it. We understood, and we continue to understand, that it was done with a simple and only purpose, that it was to prevent those powers that had been transferred to the Basque Country in the implementation of labour legislation, from being assumed by the institutions, by the agencies of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. In sum, we will say that the programme that is extended remains exactly the same as Royal Decree-Law 16/2014, which is challenged, and that it has two substantial elements. One, which takes the form of integration measures which include vocational guidance measures, i.e. an individualised employment itinerary, the assignment of an individual guardian, guides the beneficiaries in the process of returning to employment; all of which have been understood as constitutive or as part of active employment policies and on which there has been no doubt that they are not already taken up but recognised as such by the autonomous employment services. A second element, as we said, is this aid, the accompanying aid of 426 euros, which is managed and paid for by the Public State Employment Service. We understand that this economic aid shares the character of active employment policy, that is, we affirm that it is not a social security benefit, as recognized by the constitutional norm itself and as also recognized by the actual decree-law that regulates it, when to mention the competitive title that invokes justification for its action, it refers to 149.1.7a and 149.1.3.a instead of 149.1.17.a, and also because we believe that it falls within what is part of the definition of employment policies or active employment policies that regulate the Employment Act itself, as has been further argued in the appeal of unconstitutionality to which we have referred. The discussion, therefore, dealt and continues to deal, in our view, with the competitive disguise used by the Government not to exercise its powers, which is legitimate, but to prevent, in this and in other cases, those of the Basque Country from implementing their own labour legislation. Our obligation, therefore, is to denounce this purpose, not only because we do not accept this intrusion, but also because it seems to us contradictory to another fact, and it is that other similar initiatives, other initiatives where there have been promotional activities and eligible activities in this area have been admitted, have been recognized by the State authorities. Without going further, the resolution of 19 November 2015 of the General Secretariat for Autonomic and Local Coordination, publishes an agreement of the Bilateral Commission for Cooperation between the State Administration and the Basque Country Community which recognises this nature as different aid. Just to quote them, that of Royal Decree-Law 1/2015, of second chance mechanism; Law 18/2014, of urgent measures for growth, competitiveness and efficiency; a new, the 25/2015, of mechanisms - again - of second chance. But in this case, and unlike those, this real-decree law from which its validation is requested extends a situation that must be taken - in our opinion, and we say it to you with all respect - as part of the active employment policies that have already been transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We understand, therefore, that its reverse is that the State cannot and must not manage such aid which corresponds to the institutions of the Basque Country. In short, it is true that for that reason, or only for that reason, we could vote against this overcompetence, although we must recognise the positive effects of the measure. Now that we contemplate the 400th anniversary of Cervantes, although it is certainly a little balm of Fierabrás because it does not meet the needs of all those who are in this situation of personal precariousness - salt, wine, oil and rosemary, if I remember correctly - we understand that the substantive measure is positive and must be recognized as such for the very purposes that it can be extended to those collectives who need it. Madam Minister, make an effort to ensure that we can agree and fully support them in the future. In this case it will be up to us to abstain, but we earnestly wish to agree on a matter which is a matter of effectiveness. In the Basque Country we do well, in the Basque Country we will continue to do well, and in collaboration with you, surely we will be able to do better. That we can effectively transfer these competences understood as active employment policies so that in the future we can vote in favour. However, on this occasion we are going to abstain. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u11	Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let us close this sitting and this parliamentary term perhaps - now for sure - with the only actual legislative act, the only decision which has consequences in the Official State Gazette and which therefore affects the citizens, and in a matter in which surely all parliamentary groups have no reason to reject the validation of this royal decree, in so far as it can help a few thousand people to improve their situation. But, Minister, I believe that all the groups will be critical in our speeches: it has been produced with the spokesman of the Joint Parliamentary Group, it has been produced with the intervention of the Basque Parliamentary Group and it will be us. Firstly, because the programme you are presenting, being important - that 100,000 people have help, that 100,000 people find employment is never less -, if we place it in the context of unemployment protection, we are talking about a relatively modest programme. The activation programme for employment accounts for around 2% of all unemployment benefit aid managed by the State. On the other hand, the modesty of this programme contrasts with the serious problem arising from this crisis, which is the lack of coverage of the unemployment benefit. We are at 54% - if I remember correctly - of unemployment benefit coverage, which means that during these long years of crisis our social protection system has not been able to cope with long-term unemployment. Different Governments have been designing different programmes to deal with this situation, which have been only relative patches. The lack of coverage of the unemployment benefit for the long-term unemployed explains the poverty problems that force the autonomous communities to strengthen their efforts through their minimum income for inclusion in the context of austerity imposed by the Government. When the unemployment protection system does not respond to the problem of long-term unemployment, we shift pressure to the autonomous communities and municipalities to deal with situations of poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot do this in this frustrated legislature, but we need a comprehensive approach to the problem of long-term unemployment. We don't need any smaller programs that don't end up solving the problem. In addition, Minister, you will agree with me that the expectations that had been generated with this programme at the time, both coverage - people who could benefit - and spending envisaged in the 2015 budgets, have not been met. In the agreement with the social partners that, as you recalled, was at the origin of this initiative, the government and the social partners wanted 400,000 people to benefit from this programme and we have stayed at 100,000. Even the government came to contemplate a budget forecast, mentioned above, of 850 million and in 2015 we executed only 160 million euros. As far as expenditure is known in 2016, at a rate we are not going to spend the 350 million envisaged in this budget. It is a modest program on its own impact and does not cover the expectations that had been generated. That has to do with an issue that we cannot resolve in this legislature, which are the requirements for access to the programme and the dissemination of the programme. Madam Minister, you have not asked why the expectations of the programme have not been met and why the planned expenditure has not been achieved in a context where our coverage rate for unemployment protection is just over 54% and where we have serious poverty problems which force the autonomous communities and the municipalities to activate other types of care policies. I wish we had an opportunity to process this royal decree as a bill. We commented at the beginning of the session with Mr.Domenech on the processing as a bill of this royal decree. It would be another melancholy act in this House that would not make much sense, but we miss the opportunity to have a parliamentary procedure that will allow us to resolve these kinds of issues. Madam Minister, in this somewhat complacent speech with the Government you did not mention that in the area of unemployment protection the Government has introduced some significant cuts - for example for over fifty-two years old - which are then attempted to compensate for this type of policy insufficiently. Minister, one of the groups most affected by its management in the previous legislature has been the group of the elderly unemployed, who are the unemployed who have the least opportunity to reintegrate into the labour market, reinvent themselves or simply to ensure that their long-term unemployment does not end up giving them a very low pension after long years of work and effort. There the Government has not been diligent and with measures such as this activation programme for employment has not solved the problem of these unemployed. The spokesman for the Basque Parliamentary Group has put forward in an interesting way the position which the Basque Government is defending to understand that this is an active employment policy. The Catalan groups have not traditionally defended this position, but we could share it. We must put two questions on the table: firstly, we must remember - and we will not tire of doing so - that in the past parliamentary term the Government, in the area of active employment policies, reduced transfers to the autonomous communities by about 50%. The government has not made a convincing bet on active employment policies, and this has been criticized by the OECD and the European Commission. The remaining duties for the next parliamentary term are a thorough reform of active employment policies and an increase in investment, because, Minister, more than 50% of them are long-term unemployed and with lower training than the ESO. It is therefore clear that we either invest in the retraining and training of these unemployed or condemn thousands of people to subsidies. Madam Minister, the response to this crisis is not so much - but also - about subsidies, but about employment, and employment requires investment in training. Therefore, or we invest more in training for the unemployed, in professional retraining of the unemployed, in personalized care for the unemployed, or the problem of long-term unemployment linked to low levels of training is going to be a burden on social cohesion and the competitive capacity of the economy. It is not just a question of resources and investment, but also of programme design in its relationship between active and passive policies. The Minister gives a positive example that this economic aid, a passive policy, is linked to an active policy orientation programme and that this subsidy is also compatible with employment; she says that this would yield modestly better results. Minister, it is an invitation for the transfer of passive policies to the autonomous communities. This separation, that active policies are managed by the autonomous communities and that passive policies are managed by the State Employment Service, makes no sense. It was suggested that this measure should be incorporated into the Socialist Party's agenda of the previous elections, but we find it frustrating that the Jacobin citizen's gaze avoids the common sense that those who manage active employment policies also manage passive employment policies and that there is a coherent policy in this area. If we really want to tackle the problems of long-term unemployment and an improvement in active policies, it is going to be essential to link them together, and the programme you aim very modestly goes in that direction. Madam Minister, I told you a few moments ago that the answer to the problem of unemployment is not strictly in the policy of subsidies, recognizing that the problem of long-term unemployment requires a review of our social protection system in order to cope with this reality. In addition, there is a trade union proposal that will surely land in the next parliamentary term, which my group is very interested in. The fundamental question, Minister, is, however, whether the Government has developed an economic policy designed in the medium and long term and aimed at basing the competitiveness of the Spanish economy on something other than low wages. In the discussion on job creation or in the discussion we had yesterday afternoon, following an initiative by Mrs Bescansa, from the Podemos Group, the question of employment and the quality of employment was raised. Madam Minister, what is the government's policy to ensure that, in the face of a dramatic unemployment situation of more than 20%, our economic recovery does not sustain precarious and low-wage employment in a context where half of the unemployed have very low education and unemployment rates which are absolutely incomparable in our environment? The Government is not responding to these issues. The aborted legislature provokes, among other things, frustration and irritation among citizens, because, in the face of problems like these, this House is unable to reach agreements and leaves these outstanding tasks until September. We are sure that the millions of unemployed are not going to be satisfied with the work we have done during these four months. It's a shame. In any case, today you will count on our support for validation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u13	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u14	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. I would like to begin by showing all our solidarity, as left-wing Republicans and internationalists, with the workers of France who are today on a general strike, which has been convened by the main French unions, CGT, Force Ouvrière, teachers' unions, student unions, to demand the withdrawal of labour reform. [[Applauds]] It is a strike against labour reforms, such as those we have suffered and suffered here; a general strike against economic policies, which we have also suffered and suffered. The main workers' organizations also made three general strikes, which we then lost. Let's hope they win today, because if they win we win too. That is why we are here, to continue our democratic struggle, debating a decree-law presented by the People's Party, which is an obvious further demonstration of the failure of its labour reforms and its economic policy. This is a decree-law extending aid of 426 euros, which had to reach some 400,000 long-term unemployed, who continue to carry out an active search for employment and find themselves in a situation of special need, which translates into that they are in misery, and above with family burdens - the poor without family burdens do not enter this programme. The reality is that, once again, the People's Party presents us with another make-up failure of good intentions. The reality is that of the 1.2 billion budgeted between 2015 and 2016, only 182 million have been spent - it seems to me that we have a submarine that does not work and that spends more - that is, only 15% of the planned fund, while the poverty of the citizens of the Spanish state is around 25%. The reality is that there were about 400,000 beneficiaries and only 25 per cent of those expected, that is, about 100,000 people, and not because there is no poverty - I repeat - but because administrative barriers have obscenely limited the number of potential recipients, which are far more. It was also discussed in the explanatory statement that the objective of this activation plan was to create employment. Well, only 16% of the beneficiaries, 14,000 of the 400,000 targeted by the plan, have been reinstated; translated: they have achieved a job. In short, it is an aid of EUR 426 for people with family burdens to remain poor, an aid that has only reached 25% of the planned people, which has only reinserted 16% of the planned ones, that is, it has failed with 84% of the people who wanted to work and who are looking for this job actively. This is the constitutional reality of the Kingdom of Spain and this is the social fracture that should matter to them, the social fracture in Catalonia, the social fracture in Spain and the social fracture in Europe. The other fractures are invented. [[Applauds]] With this Spain, doesn't anyone understand why we want to leave? Because in this Spain of the People's Party, and soon of Citizens, we do not want to be; by the way, like other millions of Spaniards, whom we encourage to follow their paths of rupture and which will always have our support, as we have shown in this House for three months. [[Applauds]] But we follow our path and ask for respect, because this Spain is different from our Catalonia and I will tell you why. Do you know how many mayors in Catalonia have all this bench here? By the way, there are few people. There are more people talking about the unity of Spain and Venezuela than today. Very few people there. You can put the cameras on and you can see it. [[Applauds]] Do you know how many mayors have the People's and Citizens' Party, which here are so many? They have a mayor's office. They get half a mayor's office for each of them. Imagine the root of their parties and their economic policies in Catalonia. [[Mr Hernando Fraile pronounces words that are not perceived]] That's true, but we're on our way. By the way, in Catalonia the People's Party has a city hall of 500 inhabitants, not bad. That is to say, the Spanish nationalist right in Catalonia is where it is and that is why we want to leave and, with us, surely, many Spaniards would also do so. I'm done, Mr. President. We will vote in favour of its decree-law, despite being the finding of a failure, because even though it is a failure, the 100,000 families that receive bread, water and salt - that is, the 426 euros - need them, and we will not be the ones who take bread, water and salt from them, but the opposite; we will always be at their side. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u15	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u16	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, welcome to Congress. It is a luxury for us to be able to exchange words with a minister. It is clear that there are not many who have presented themselves today and we have not had the luck during these days of being able to exchange views with them, with which I thank you very much for coming. I do not deceive you if I told you that we would have loved to have here some of your other colleagues, such as Mr Montoro - who, unfortunately, just left after five minutes in the House - to ask you, for example, about the relations between the 2012 tax amnesty and the recently released and globally known Panamanian papers. [[The lady]] We would have liked to ask Mr Montoro for the reasons for refusing to share data with the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, which has denounced that he cannot do his job well. To ask also Mr Montoro about the huge blowjob that leaves us in the public accounts and, much worse, in the social security accounts. We would also have liked to have Mr De Guindos to ask him about his plan to avoid a Brussels sanction, now that we are at the last step of the European Union's corrective arm because we have managed to have the record for the biggest public deficit in Europe. As I say, we would have loved to have Mr De Guindos ask him how he intends to change the growth model by cutting 5.1 billion in education and 1,200 in research and development. Do you think that that way, by cutting into all future games, you can change the model of failed growth...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u17	Mr. Roldán, I remind you that we are talking about employment, so please go to the subject. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u18	It was an introduction. I'm going on now, President, thank you. We would have liked - and already ended with the introduction - to have Mr Méndez de Vigo, Minister of Education, to ask him why his group is the only one who does not vote in favour of the Education Committee for a great educational pact that this country needs. [[Applauds]] We would have loved to have President Rajoy also to explain to us why he is taking us to an election and exactly what part of our agreement he doesn't like. Our commitment not to raise taxes to the middle class...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u19	Mr. Roldán, you come back to this subject. I'm sorry, it's the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u20	It's just two more points.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u21	Mr. Roldán, get to the point. You have not yet appointed anything on the subject for which we are here.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u22	We would have liked to ask this Government many questions, but we have found ourselves faced with silence, immobility and the absolute lack of interest and ambition in finding real solutions to the problems of the Spaniards. Fortunately, at least today we have the Minister for Employment and we can talk about employment, the greatest concern of the Spanish and also the greatest concern of Citizens. And what legacy does this government leave us in terms of employment? A disastrous legacy, Minister. In Spain we still face three enormous challenges in the labour market. The first is mass unemployment. Today, after eight years in crisis, we are still above 20% unemployment, 5,800,000 people among the unemployed and discouraged, following the latest data from the EPA. This problem does not come from yesterday or the day before yesterday, ladies and gentlemen; it is three times that we have risen by 20% unemployment in the last thirty-five years in this country. The second major problem in our labour market is precariousness and labour poverty. We are the second country in Europe in the rate of temporaryity: nine out of ten new contracts signed, Minister, are temporary. We have a profoundly dual and profoundly unfair market, which systematically excludes a third of workers who are unable to achieve any level of stability in their work. Madam Minister, we have about 7 million people who, despite being at work, cannot reach the annual minimum wage; poor workers, Madam Minister, despite being at work. Millions of young people spend their lives entering and leaving the labour market without being able to make the decision to have children, without being able to emancipate, without being able to save, without being able to accumulate knowledge, without being able to accumulate rights. But today we did not come to talk about these first two problems, but about the third great challenge of the labour market in our country; perhaps the most painful part, the rawest part of the work drama we live in Spain. In our country, 3 million people have been out of work for over a year and 1 million have been out of work for over four years. Those are the great forgotten of this crisis, and this is the legacy left to us by this Government. Those unemployed don't know what Mr. De Guindos is talking about when he talks about recovery, because they're not getting out of unemployment. In fact, only one in ten of those unemployed are receiving some kind of training with their active policies, and that training is also bad. And what has this government done for active policies in recent years? Well, according to the State's General Budgets, the level of spending on employment promotion policies fell, Minister, by 47% between 2010 and 2014. Do you know what public expenditure is on training and employment in Denmark, for example? 1.3% of GDP; ours now, after rising slightly, 0.5% of GDP, and we have a little more unemployment and a little more problems with the basic skills of our workers. In Spain we are in the Pleistocene of active employment policies and you have done nothing to change that. [[Applauds]] For not knowing, minister, we don't even know the unemployed we have. We do not have profiles of the unemployed in order to provide them with adequate guidance. We have poor quality courses; courses that, on some occasions, have served some parties to enrich themselves at the expense of the unemployed. What can be done to improve things? The solution, Mr Iglesias, Mr Sánchez, to the problem of long-term unemployment cannot be to abrogate and return to failed work models of the past. [[Applauds]] Mass unemployment, mass temporality and long-term unemployment despair also existed with these failed models. The solution, Mr. Iglesias, to the problems with active policies cannot be goat, moral lessons, slogans and shows on television. [[Applauds]] These things do not improve people's lives, what improves people's lives are effective, fair and well-designed public policies. We must banish from this House the maximalist answers and the great magical solutions to social problems. No, Mr. Churches, we are not going to allow you and your bad policies to take over the debate to improve the lives of those who have it worst. If you were really concerned about social policies, you would have sat down to talk about the wage supplement or the minimum living income, which was also in our agreement, or about active employment policies or about the 7 billion euros in social program that were in our agreement, but you prefer to talk about assaulting the skies. Remaining, understanding public policies, searching for evidence, contrasting experiences from other countries and improving public policies do not interest them. There are solutions to the long-term problem. In Citizens we propose to give training checks directly to the unemployed, so that they can use them in the best possible way, as in most European countries. In Citizens we propose that course bidders compete to offer courses of better quality. In Citizens we propose profiles and personal itineraries. In Citizens we propose to have better public policy evaluation systems to know what we are spending money on and how to improve our spending. In Citizens we propose a truly ambitious income for training and job reintegration. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be able to offer hope to the long-term unemployed in this country. Madam Minister, we are going to vote in favour of the decree-law that is before us today, but we are going to do so because we believe it can be used to alleviate suffering, not because we think that the patch it proposes will solve the structural problems of a system that makes water everywhere. In Spain we have a very serious problem with employment, but we must find concrete solutions and design sensible public policies.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u23	Mr. Roldán, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u24	I'm done, Madam President. The solution is to create a new framework of labour relations, a new framework that allows for job stability with a contract system that serves to offer an alternative to those 7 million people I was talking about; a new framework that allows workers to accumulate rights from day one with instruments such as the Austrian backpack we are proposing; a new framework that dignifies the salaries of poor workers with a wage supplement; a new framework that offers the long-term unemployed a hope once and for all; a new framework, in short, that allows us to stop being the shame of Europe in employment policies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u25	Thank you, Mr. Roldán. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mr Domènech has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u26	Before I come to the subject, I want to make a previous comment, because I am always surprised by the lessons of solvency in public policies that the citizens' spokesmen continually give us; not for nothing but because they do not govern in any important capital of this country, because they do not govern in any important autonomous community of this country and because when they make government pacts they are so that they do not govern anyone. I mean, they're like the garden dog, they don't eat or let eat. [[Applauds]] This is a credit to me absolutely unknown, and I know you closely. [[Rumors]] Having said that, entering into the debate - it would be good if everyone were, although the minister is, and this is one of your subjects -, we will validate the extension, but for the people, not for you - I'm sorry - because in terms of public policies it is just and necessary that the decree-law of the 426 euros be validated right now. It is fair and necessary for this to be validated in the face of a failed legislature at least; but it is also fair and necessary to say that in the face of an unemployment rate of 20%, which does not fall from that level, before we have a youth unemployment of 46%, before there are 2 million long-term unemployed, your proposal covers only about 100,000 people. Ladies and gentlemen, 2 million long-term unemployed people, a proposal covering 100,000 people. In any kind of public policy, that has no other name, no other reality or any other possibility of qualification than the absolute failure of a public policy. In fact, that has not been the main public policy or priority to which you have devoted yourselves; neither you, nor those who came before you, nor those who came before those who came before you. For all of you, even for Citizens - who present themselves as that solvency - in reality the policy of job creation has always had a center, the policies of labour reforms. You have always found the solution or the main tool for job creation by talking and implementing new job reforms. Since the adoption of the Workers' Statute in 1980 in this country there have been seven labour reforms, four since 2001 until now - an exponential growth in labour reforms - and they always say that, despite having done so many, still more are missing. There is no more revised, trampled and mistreated right than the right to work in this country. [[Applauds]] Well, there is one who is equally ill-treated, the right to housing. There has been no substantial reform since the French Mortgage Act 1946. [[Applauds]] There is no talk of the need for reform. With this rate of exponential growth, which we are going to stop - I repeat, we are going to stop -, it seems that the solution proposed to us Citizens and that in part bought the PSOE in its pact is what is called a single contract. It sounds very good; it's not about labour reform, it's about a single contract. Their proposal is this, even though they talk about complexity and public policies; their proposal is that, and they confirm it to me. The single contract - although not a labour reform - is like all previous labour reforms put together in a single package to destroy the rights of workers in this country. Its public policies do not involve creating jobs; all labour reforms involve destroying jobs, reducing dismissal, precariousing, lowering wages and destroying our rights. The policy that you have practiced, in this particular case that of the 426 euros - which we are actually going to ratify because it is fair that it is so - has failed in its breadth and intensity; in its breadth not only because, of the more than 2 million people in this situation, only 100,000 receive this help, but because you yourselves calculated that it would initially cover 400,000 people. I insist, of those 400,000 initials have only covered 100,000. Last year they put in an allocation of 850 million for this aid, of which only 160 million have been executed, while there was no problem in giving money and executing aid to the bank in this country; in that they were cautious, put criteria and filters. You practically did not fail in that public policy, because you announced it, said that 850 million would be spent, and set criteria for very few people, in a desperate situation, to be able to access that aid. Therefore, do not fill your mouths with what you have neither done nor practiced, nor with what you have killed, despite announcing it yourself. That is clearly a failure of public policy, but with intensity. [[The Lord]] It is true, it is fair and we will validate the support of the 426 euros for long-term unemployed with family burdens. But what is that? What is €426 for a long-term stop or stop with family charges? We live in a country - we should never forget - where 10 million citizens live below the poverty line, where 2 million families live with energy poverty. In this country where you live you are only willing to cover 100,000 people with 426 euros. We will approve, but we know that it is practically sarcasm and cynicism in the face of reality, not anything else. Are there solutions to this? There are, of course; some of them could be put into practice yourself, by reviewing the filters at once. If you've calculated that 400,000 people can access this, it can't be that the help is just getting 90,000. Are there solutions to this? There are. Open its doors to the unions' ILP, which would allow that same aid to reach 2 million people and be effectively a public policy. Are there solutions to this? There are. We have presented a guaranteed minimum income programme not of 426 euros but of 600 euros that costs 15 billion. Now everyone will take their hands to their heads and say that these already come to spend, to do amazing things - they tell me that yes the citizens' comrades, who always agree absolutely with us on this - but you had no trouble giving 61 billion to the bank in direct aid. [[Applauds]] They had no problems facilitating tax fraud that we have seen affecting even recent former ministers of his Government. Panama's roles are the clearest manifestation of the extent to which the elites have been laughing from below. Are there solutions? There are. Can we have them now? No, that's true. I'm finishing up. This has been the shortest legislature in history; it opened with great hopes, but it has not been possible to carry it forward, in its course, because there was too much fear of facing the challenges of the future. We started it with two non-law propositions about Spain's unity and yesterday they wanted to close it with a big debate about Venezuela. Here are his priorities: some tell us about Venezuela, about the unity of Spain; others tell us constantly about his 150 years of history. We are told that we are Adamists because we are new - it is true -. I think it's not 150 but less. It's true, we don't have 150 years of history, so for us the priorities are those here and now. I think some or many of them didn't understand where we came from. We don't come from those hundred years, we have no problem recognizing it. We emerged when you, or the vast majority of you - that is why we work for here and now, and for the real priorities of this country - told us that our hopes, that our rights were something we could play with; when you told us something else: that our hopes and our rights - and they did so publicly - were the cause of the crisis because we had lived above our possibilities. When they did this, they gave us no alternative but to win, no alternative but to win. [[We can-in-communal Podemos-in Marea, Members of the European Parliament and Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the stand]] I'm sorry for the problems or fears that some have. We have not come to overtake anyone; we have come to change this country, and that is what we have proposed. [[Applauds]] In that sense, that extraordinary story that began in the streets, in the squares, when cynicism reigned in this country, does not end today, it has only just begun. Thank you very much. [[We can-in-communal Podemos-in Marea standing by Members of Parliament and Members of the Group of the European People's Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u27	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Del Moral Milla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u28	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs Báñez, you started your speech by giving the data from the EPA for the first quarter; so I will start too, but giving it the actual data and not the searchable figures that you have offered this morning. Mrs Báñez, unemployment is rising by 11,900 unemployed, the unemployment rate is rising and employment is falling by 64,600 jobs. Here's the data, Mrs. Báñez. Where's the recovery you're talking about? That is why, Mrs Báñez, because there are still thousands of families who are having a bad time, is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to support this decree. We are going to do this out of responsibility, because the Socialists have always been on the side of those who are going through the worst. If that decree is able to alleviate the situation of any of these people, even if it is one of them, it will not be the PSOE who puts stones in that path. [[Applauds]] For us to help one family, Mrs Báñez, it is much more important than you and your entire government. This, Minister, does not prevent us from telling you what we have been telling you for months that this activation programme for employment has been a real failure. This program has been a disaster without palliatives; we do not say it, you say it yourself in the explanatory statement of this decree. You yourselves recognize without any redness or upholstery that of the 450,000 people who could have benefited only have done just 100,000. Where are the remaining 350,000 people? What happened to all these people, Minister? How do you explain that you have not benefited from this programme when you have had EUR 1 billion left that you have not been able to spend? The only ones responsible for making this programme a failure are you and your Government. They are responsible because they demanded very harsh requirements, almost impossible to meet. They did not listen to either the trade unions or the groups in this House. You again present the decree with the same requirements, without incorporating the proposals for improvement of trade unions or political groups. Now they'll tell me they haven't been able to incorporate them. I will tell you that yes, they have been able to do so; in fact, they have done so with the Preparation Plan. They could therefore also have incorporated the proposals of the trade unions and the Socialist Party, which had made the harsh requirements of the activation programme for employment more flexible. They have not accepted improvements, Minister, they have done so as we are used to, from the back to the citizens, to the social partners and to this House. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, the only reality is that you have never believed in this activation programme for employment, and this is shown by your very low level of implementation, just a small 15%. There's more, Minister. For this year, you have cut 500 million from the budget for the activation programme for employment. How do you and your Government justify this new tijeretazo? Doesn't there still exist thousands of families with all their members unemployed and without any income? Or do you intend to meet the deficit imposed on you by Brussels at the expense of the unemployed in this country? [[Rumors]] I'll answer it. You don't care very much about the unemployed in this country. Moreover, neither you, nor your Government, nor your party have ever been concerned about the unemployed in this country, Mrs Báñez. [[Applauds]] ; proof of this is his service sheet at the head of the Ministry of Employment. [[The Rumors Continue]] Two decrees have been passed in the past legislature, which have been the creators of the greatest cut in the social benefits of unemployed persons. Moreover, it did so at the worst possible time, when the crisis reached the hardest levels and when the families of this worst country were going through it. It is necessary to be cruel, Mrs Báñez, it is necessary to be very cruel! They excluded 70% of their beneficiaries from the Plan. It is said that young people, the unemployed in temporary contracts, will soon be excluded from the Plan. Now, minister, they soften the requirements of the plan in this decree, although it does not cease to be a cosmetic patch and - let me tell you - with clear electoral tufa. Madam Minister, it's embarrassing to see you here doing a campaign rally and getting your data out of your chest. Unemployment, precarious work and the free fall of social benefits should be more than sufficient grounds for coming to this House to something else, to ask for forgiveness. Yes, Minister, to ask for forgiveness from the unemployed who have exhausted their benefit and who have been left without protection and without re-training mechanisms; to ask for forgiveness from the long-term unemployed who have remained without protection and without positive actions of insertion; to ask for forgiveness from the young people, many of whom had to emigrate outside Spain looking for the opportunities that were denying them here, although, of course, we already know that for you, Minister, that is external mobility. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, today I should have come to the plenary to apologize to the 500,000 families who have all their members unemployed, without benefit, without protection and without the possibility of insertion; to apologize to the job seekers that you have excluded from the active income of insertion; in short, you should have come to apologize to each and every unemployed person to whom you are unable to respond, to all those people who are leaving lying on the road and abandoned to their fate. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we could be putting in place employment plans and against job insecurity, but we still have the worst employment minister this country has had thanks to the Podemos bench. Today we could be putting in place a plan for the return of our young people, but we still have a government in place thanks to the Podemos bench. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we may be returning the labour and social rights that the People's Party has taken away from us; however, we have the People's Party sitting on the government bench, of course when it comes, because it is not here today. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, you could but did not, because you are more comfortable with a People's Party government than with a socialist president. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Del Moral. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u30	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this plan, which is being extended today, is the result of the agreement signed by the Government with the social partners in December 2014. They are therefore a series of agreed, talked about, dialogued and signed with the social partners. It is true that we share some possible changes, but the Government is in office. It can only be extended, it cannot be modified. The requirements were implemented jointly by the Government and the social partners. When there is a stable government, they will also change with the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here that unemployment expenditure has been reduced when it governs the People's Party. This year's budgets have cut unemployment expenditure by 9%, but unemployment in terms of EPAs is falling at a rate of 9% every year, i.e. there is less unemployment expenditure because unemployment is falling. In fact, you have seen how we have had to change the unemployment requirement from 20% to 18% so that the Plan can be extended. You have also talked about active employment policies. The government is spending on active employment policies around what was spent in 2011, but with a difference: in the period 2007-2011, when it ruled the Socialist Party, 30 billion euros were spent on active employment policies and the result was that unemployment increased by more than 3 million people. You criticise our number of active employment policies, but the reality is that unemployment in annual terms is falling and that we have been increasing active employment policy figures for several years by 10% for this year, 15% for the previous year, etc. It is true that much remains to be done, but also that we are on the right track. Of those over the age of forty-five, almost 750,000 are now working more than at the beginning of the legislature, 750,000 more. In the past year, 61% of people who have dropped out of unemployment lists are unemployed for a long period of time, i.e. long-term unemployment is falling by about 15%. This is not just data, ladies and gentlemen, but people with names and surnames; they are people who are abandoning the lists of unemployment by the policies of the People's Party and the Rajoy Government. These long-term unemployment plans have to exist and will continue with the People's Party. I would like these long-term unemployment plans not to exist because everyone had a job in Spain. That is what I and the People's Party would like, for all Spaniards to have a job. We have devoted ourselves to that in the previous parliamentary term and we will continue to devote ourselves to it because employment is the DNA of the People's Party: employment, employment and employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] It is true that the data from the EPA came out this morning, but that the trees do not prevent them from seeing the forest. According to the EPA in this first quarter, if the effects of the calendar are corrected, 600,000 jobs are being created annually in annual terms with a growth rate of 3.22%. In 2005 it was when unemployment fell the most in our history. There has also been talk here of the EUR 426, that if a family cannot be maintained with dignity, if it is a failure and if they are poor. Ladies and gentlemen, what keeps a family with dignity is job creation, which is what makes people live, prosper and be useful. Dignity is given to a family and given to a country when employment is created, as more than a million jobs have been created here when the People's Party has ruled. [[Applauds]] Dignity is taken away from a family and a country when more than 3.5 million people are sent to unemployment, as did the Socialist Party. That is how dignity is taken away from people, sending more than 3.5 million people to unemployment, which is cruel, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. That's being cruel, ladies and gentlemen; and that's good enough for so much demagogy. Defending the unemployed is not coming here and making a populist speech. The only way to defend the unemployed is to create employment as has been done here in the previous legislature, 1,500 jobs a day when it ruled the People's Party and 1,400 unemployed a day when it ruled the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we are not going to admit lessons of social policy or employment from those who have made this country on the verge of rescue, in ruin and it has been when unemployment, inequality and poverty have increased the most. Social policy lessons not one because you have very bad memory, but I will remind you. We took a country with a 9 % deficit, with more than 5 million unemployed, with a risk premium absolutely overflowing, with cash registers full of invoices and with the health sector with a deficit of 16 billion euros. We took a country on the verge of rescue and left a country, ladies and gentlemen, which is leading the creation of employment and economic growth in Europe. Before unemployment was rising by 10% and now, in annual terms, it is falling to 8%; before we brought half of the unemployed to Europe and now almost half of the jobs created in Europe are Spanish, and you continue to talk about job insecurity. We are also leading the creation of indefinite employment. Six out of ten indefinite jobs in Europe are Spanish. I'll give you a piece of information, ladies and gentlemen. In July 2011, 90,000 indefinite contracts and 123,000 contracts were signed in July 2015, an additional 40% of indefinite contracts were signed with the People's Party. It is not the same, ladies and gentlemen, to catch a country in recession that leaves it with a growth of 3.5%. There has been talk of a deficit here and it is not the same thing to increase it by EUR 117 billion, as the Socialist Government did, than to reduce it by EUR 50 billion, as the People's Party Government has done, from 9% to 5%. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that is good enough. His nefarious politics ruined us and now his posture is sowing this country of political uncertainty because of his refusal to sit with the party that has won the elections, which is no other than the People's Party. And I'm going to tell you one thing; they've already done a lot of damage to this country, but they seem to be coming back, and the person responsible for having to go to new elections has a name and surname: the Social Party and Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] I also want to tell you something else. You have spoken of forgiveness, but it is you who have to apologize to Spain and the Spanish for the ruin, for the deficit, for the unemployment, for the frozen pensions and for having to go back to elections. It is you who have to apologize to Spain and the Spanish. [[Applauds]] As for Podemos, we are already accustomed to a very populist discourse. It's true that this time they haven't mess with any journalists, but, well, they say one thing here and they do another where they rule. When we govern everyone knows what we do: we create jobs. We're the job party. When you govern, as in Barcelona and Madrid, all you do is stop investment and business projects, which are the ones that really create jobs in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you one thing. The unemployed are not defended or given dignity in this way; on the contrary, more unemployment, more poverty, more inequality and less opportunities are created and, in the end, what happens? Less social security contributions and worse pensions, because I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, that your friends in Syriza have had to lower pensions in Greece by 40%. [[Applauds]] That's what you do. We can make promises that he can't keep and that's the serious problem on the left. Much talk - you speak very well - but when you govern 40% less pensions in Greece and here the socialist freezing of pensions [[Applauds]] The first time in history that pensions were frozen. That's the only truth on the left. Citizens I want to tell you that I have nothing against you, but my land hurts. It is true - we said it already - that the Socialist Party and Citizens go together, it is the same here and there, but I will tell you one thing, you are supporting a socialist government in Andalusia that after thirty years has achieved the highest unemployment rate in all of Spain and all of Europe. That's what you support every day. An autonomous community that is no longer implementing 1.8 billion euros in employment policies and has had to return almost 500 million euros to the Ministry of Employment, with an unemployment rate of almost 30%. That's what you support every day. An autonomous community in which they have been lost by the corrupt way of EREs and training courses billions of euros, i.e. the money of the unemployed has been given an irregular use. But for you, of course, some cases are corruption - ours is corruption - but yours are administrative irregularities. That's the new policy. [[Applauds]] Now they call it administrative irregularities. Well, don't come here and tear your clothes off, ladies and gentlemen, because you have very little credibility. I insist - and I am finishing - that the slogan of the People's Party is very simple: the best social policy is employment. Moreover, employment is essential in order to be able to finance social policies which, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, despite the mantra of the left, I have to tell you that today we spend EUR 50 billion more on social protection than when the crisis began with the socialist government, EUR 50 billion more. I would like to thank the Minister of Employment and her entire team for their sensitivity, because this government is going to finish this short term of office by working, betting and taking action for the unemployed, by extending the Employment Activation Plan and facilitating the extension of the Preparation. Because, in short, that is our obsession, that is our goal, that is our real concern, and it will continue to be because, as I have said, employment is the DNA of the People's Party. I'm done, President. That bench, ladies and gentlemen, the bench of the People's Party, the party that has won the elections and that has the confidence of millions of Spaniards in this country, is proud of the Rajoy government and the policies of the People's Party, which have made it possible for Spain to emerge from the recession and to now lead the creation of employment and economic growth in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we are proud to be part of the People's Party, which is the employment party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Spain. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u32	Thank you, President. A brief speech to thank all the parliamentary groups. I take the positive side of this morning's debate. Today, by validating this royal decree-law, we send a message of hope to Spanish society and it is that most of the groups in this House do not want anyone to stay behind in recovery and we are able to sum up for the employment and opportunities of the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u33	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u34	We are now dealing with the item on the agenda concerning the request made by the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Mixto parliamentary groups to set up a committee of inquiry into the railway accident in Angrois. For the defence of that request, Mrs Fernández has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u35	Good morning, Mr. President. Every time a public representative has promoted initiatives at the parliamentary level to clarify what happened in Angrois, in that tragic July 24, 2013, he has been accused of being a populist, a sensationalist and of using the victims for political purposes. I guess that's the way some people have to slip the bundle, but that's not why we're going to stop exercising as public representatives. That is why I want to begin my speech today by reading an excerpt from the letter that the victims of Alvia themselves, who are accompanying us from the rostrum today, want to bring to this House. [[Greetings from ladies and gentlemen, some of them stood up, looking at the guest gallery]] It says: Ladies and gentlemen, we are the victim platform Alvia 04155, which brings together most of the victims and relatives of the most serious high-speed accident in democracy, with 81 dead and more than 140 injured. First of all, we want to thank In Marea, Citizens, Podemos, Joint Group and, in its day, the BNG, United Left and UPyD, for their support for the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Secondly, we want to clarify to the spokesman for the People's Party, Mr Hernando, that the victims are not being manipulated or used by anyone. Let you say that a political party, whatever sign it is, is having a miserable attitude in asking for a commission of inquiry is a lack of respect for democracy, intelligence and the victims. We would also like to say, Mr Hernando, spokesman for the People's Party, that you failed to tell the truth when you said on public television last April 20 that a committee on the accident had already been set up in Congress. You should know this, but we will clarify it: what was created was a closed-door subcommittee dealing with the railway system and not the accident. Mr Hernando, please inform yourself well and apologize for these unfortunate words which you have created, if any, even more pain in the victims. What is really miserable is the humiliating treatment that we have been receiving for the past two years from public institutions. We received miserable treatment from the president of the Xunta, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, who sent us to the riot control when we refused to receive medals that most of the victims did not want; we received miserable treatment when we were systematically denied the creation of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. The other day you said you had a pact with the Socialist Party. What are you afraid of? What do you intend to hide? We have made it clear to you: that Mr. Blanco inaugurated the line and Minister Ana Pastor put the train into operation and it was during his term of office that the security system was disconnected. [[Applauds]] Mr Hernando, you hold Mr Blanco accountable and the latter holds the People's Party accountable by saying that he was unaware of the disconnection of the system and that it was the People's Party that put in service the train he designed at a record time. There seems to be a lot to clarify in this Parliament. As you say, you just have to have two fingers in front to realize that a high-speed train cannot depend solely on the driver. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is criminal responsibility and another is politics. Victims, family members and citizens have the right to the truth and to be cleared of all responsibilities, and even more so when public enterprises such as Renfe, ADIF and the Ministry of Development are involved. For two years we have been publicly denouncing that this tragedy could have been avoided; several decisions of the previous Government and the current Government compromised the safety of travellers, as Judge Aláez pointed out. Commercial and political interests were put before people's security. What we have received from the victims is a miserable treatment of a government that has not cooperated with justice, neither ADIF nor Renfe, despite the promises made personally by Minister Ana Pastor to the victims and relatives. This has been pointed out by both judges. [[Applauds]] In addition, there has been a systematic breach of the European Union's rail safety standards that we denounced in January of last year before the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many more reasons, which is why we have asked Mrs Fernández, Member of Parliament for En Marea, to hand over documentary Frankenstein 04155, by Aitor Rei, awarded with the Seminci, Mr Rajoy and Mr Sánchez to clarify their doubts. [[shows a DVD]] What the State would have to do is a real democracy and what it owes to the victims and family is truth and justice, and the only way to do that is to clear up the responsibilities of the politicians or agents of the State who have lied, hidden or done their work wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, we are no longer in pain. We ask for something very democratic, and it is that they create a commission of inquiry to clear up any political responsibilities that may exist. This is the victim's message here today. [[Greetings from ladies and gentlemen, some of them stood up, looking at the guest gallery]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that cuts kill; yes, cuts and corruption kill. Political decisions have consequences for the lives of millions of people and there are decisions that kill. Some examples. The World Health Organization indicates that in the Spanish State, in 2014, there were 7,100 deaths due to energy poverty. That 20% of the Spanish population is at risk of being victims of energy poverty is a political decision, unfortunately too linked to the revolving doors. Another case. Carlos Midón committed suicide on the first anniversary of his brutal eviction in Aríns, because he could no longer bear the brutality and pain generated by his policies. That their policies kill not just us, the judges say so too. They have just charged two high-ranking charges of Feijoo's Xunta accused of reckless homicide for delaying and denying drugs to hepatitis C patients. They are political decisions that have political responsibility. The Angois accident is another case in which cuts and corruption killed 81 people and left more than 140 injured. There are political leaders because all those involved have been appointed by the Government. [[Applauds]] The chronology of an announced death begins when PSOE minister José Blanco tries to inaugurate the line at all costs before the elections. A month before the launch, José Blanco announced the inauguration, even though he did not have the favorable reports, which arrived in a hurry five days earlier. These safety reports were signed by the Director of INECO, the Director of ADIF and the Director General of Railway Infrastructures. Three political positions with political responsibilities because security reports forced the Ertms security system to be installed on the entire route, but they modified the project to arrive in time and did not install in the final stage. The security system was over 200 metres from the corner of Angrois. No risk study of this modification was conducted. An infrastructure was inaugurated in which the accident was predictable - independent experts say - all with such medals. A political decision that has political responsibility. Already with the train in operation and the People's Party in government, the head of ourense drivers warned ADIF two years before the accident that reducing the speed of a train from 200 kilometres per hour to 80 kilometres per hour without any security measures meant that anything could be done in the face of any delay. It would be enough with a simple mark of 800 euros, but the high offices of ADIF, dependent on the ministry of Ana Pastor, made deaf ears. A negligent political decision that has political responsibility. If this is not enough, in June 2012, as minister Ana Pastor, the security system is disconnected in the previous stage. Instead of giving priority to the safety of travellers, the only thing that was given priority was to improve speed times. This cluster of political decisions was eliminating all guarantees of infrastructure security. A cluster of political decisions that prioritized the personal, electoral or major AVE builders' interests over people's lives. The consequences were 81 dead, 140 injured and thousands of lives destroyed. What came after the accident was the bleeding with the pain of the victims and their families, denying the victims the right to the truth. The People's Party and the Socialist Party entered into a pact of silence; three years denying the creation of this commission. They undertook a campaign to blame the last link, in this case the driver. It reminds us, unfortunately, too much of the Prestige. No political leader for a cluster of negligent political decisions. We want an independent commission of inquiry so that it never happens again. The guilt campaign extended to the victims. Again it reminds us too much of other cases such as that of the metro of Valencia. They created a health cordon on the victims and their families. On the day that a year had been fulfilled since the families buried their dead, Feijóo received them with anti-disturbations in the delivery of prizes that they did not want to receive because they did not want medals, they wanted justice. The Government continued to criminalize victims who reported lack of security measures. Rafael Catalá said that the victims were doing what they were doing was staining the reputation of the Spanish AVE, that that was going against the businesses of Spain. They said what was announced to us at the BOE as high speed, what was sold to us as an AVE that had the greatest security, the latest technology and automatic driving systems - all those medals to campaign - now that there had been an accident, it was no longer high speed. How many AVE contracts are worth our lives, how many AVE contracts are worth our dignity, what relationship do the interests of large construction companies have to want this accident not to be counted as AVE's? Political decisions have political responsibility. Today you have a responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, which is to look at the interests of the people and allow the truth to be known; to exercise transparency and real democracy, by setting up an independent and plural parliamentary commission of inquiry that once and for all banishes one of the great scourges of this democracy: impunity. Or they may continue to be hostages to their own mistakes, refusing to investigate and depress responsibilities. We have already told you that we will continue to fight in the next legislature for the right to the truth and for the purification of responsibilities. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u36	Yes, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u37	In addition to the letter I read at the beginning of my speech, the president of the Alvia Victims Association also asked me to hand over this documentary to them. I would have wanted to give it to Mr Rajoy and Mr Sánchez, and I'm very sorry they're not, but I hope some of your party leaders will send it to you because I'm sure they'll be thrilled to see you. But if they still do not decide to break this pact of silence, if they decide to remain there, they will lack the ethical and human condition necessary to be representatives of the citizenry. It is our opinion, it is the opinion of the victims of Alvia and the people of En Comú. Get out on the street and check it out. Thank you very much. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, put on their feet.- Some of them show a T-shirt that reads: 'Truth. Justice. No more lies'.- Mrs Fernández Costa gives a DVD to Mr Hernando Fraile of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, and Mrs Hernánz Costa of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mr. Baldoví. [[Mr Hernando Fraile asks for the floor]] Wait a minute. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u39	Mr President, the honourable Member of Podemos has made clear, clear and direct references, and I therefore ask her, on the basis of Rule 71, to take a turn for references.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u40	Yes, it has addressed you personally.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u41	Yeah. Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, this is not the first time that a rail accident has occurred in this country and, unfortunately, it is not the first time that someone has attempted to use the victims of that accident politically for political purposes. You do not come here to ask for political responsibilities, you come here only to use and seek political revenues on the basis of the misfortune of the many people who perished in that accident. You are not going to give us lessons on the subject of the victims, neither of accidents nor of the terrorists with whom you are coded on many occasions today, and you are going to assign them and come with them by the European Parliament. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u42	Thank you, Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u43	And one thing. It is alluding to the dignity of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u44	Mr. Hernando, you're not referring to the allusion.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u45	Yes, it affects the dignity of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u46	Personal allusion...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u47	A subcommission has been set up here...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u48	Wait a minute, Mr. Hernando. Let me talk. The personal allusion by which you are entitled to the word is in reference to some of your words that have occurred before. Please refer to that reference, do not make a political assessment, which I am sure the representative of your group will make later. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u49	Thank you, Mr. Lopez. As this has to do precisely with the work of this House, what the honourable Member from Podemos says about the position of my group and my group...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u50	No, it's not with the House's work. It is the reference you have made about your person; the textual words of the spokesman of the Podemos Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u51	If you'll let me speak, Mr. Lopez, I'll tell you, because you always interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u52	Yeah, but when you refer to that.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u53	That's what I'm trying to do, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u54	Then do it directly.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u55	All right. Mrs Podemos, I have a great deal of respect for the victims of anything, of any accident. What I am not going to do is never use these situations in order to get political results. [[Rumors]] In this House there was a subcommission that studied the accident and there have been courts that have determined the responsibilities. If you intend to blame any accidents that occur in the country, whether railway or otherwise, on political decisions, it seems to me that you very soon - because it is possible that you may ever have some kind of responsibility - may be a victim of that situation.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u56	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. [[Mr. Iglesias Turrion: You can't offend the members of this House, the victims... It's another practice of the People's Party... The regulations are not complied with and the laws are not complied with... It's shameful what we just heard, Mr. Speaker of the House!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u57	Mr. Churches, you don't have the word and no matter how much you scream from the seat you're not hearing anything at all. [[Rumors and Protests]] Let us see, Mr. Iglesias, you do not have the floor because you have not intervened in the turn. Wait a minute. There has been a personal reference to Mr Hernando who is an allusion and, indeed, there has been a part of his intervention which was not related to the other intervention, which is what I cut off at the beginning. [[Mrs. Montero Gil makes negative gestures]] [[Several Members: Everything!-Protests]] No, no. [[Rumors]] He then referred to the fact that he, on the basis of those statements he made at the time, in no way wants to play with the victims. Point. That's what's left in the 'Diary of Sessions'. Nothing more. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u58	Thank you very much, President. I hope that today the people's bench will be quieter and quieter than yesterday with my intervention. [[Rumors.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] I see you're not. When I hear about political revenues and see the GNP that came here yesterday afternoon, what do you want me to say, Mr Hernando? For me, the relatives of political prisoners, of any political prisoner, the relatives of a misfortune, of any misfortune, have all my consideration and all my solidarity. It seems to some that this solidarity only reaches a part. This is a request for the creation of a commission that has already arrived here supported by 115,000 signatures and that could not finally be created. A subcommission of study of the Spanish railway system was created - I say it without the rings falling off - which was not sterile. It was a productive subcommittee, we came to conclusions signed by the vast majority or almost unanimously in almost all. On the contrary, I will not deny that there were some difficulties and impediments to the appearance of someone we asked for from the smaller groups. I have to thank Celso Delgado, chairman of that Commission, for interceding and for finally being able to attend all the people we asked for. We will vote in favour of this request because, in the end, we also support creation and there are obviously personal causes that explain our support. As a Valencian, I lived as the relatives of the victims of the subway accident manifested for nine years in the Plaza de la Virgen, I saw the dignity of these relatives and saw the indifference and contempt of the Valencian Government of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Nine years later, the Valencian Government distinguished these relatives with the high distinction of the Valencian Generalitat and this year has begun a new commission of inquiry. I end with two messages to the Members and to the Members. If everything is clear, if there were no irregularities, vote in favour of the creation of this committee or, at least, do not stifle it; let it take off, be just as understanding, be just as supportive, be just as courageous as they were yesterday with Leopoldo López's relatives. [[Applauds]] And to the families - we know that today this proposal will fall because the elections will be called inexorably next Tuesday - I say to you: your struggle will not be in vain, the change will also come here, to the Madrid Parliament, and one day we will approve this committee and this committee will be able to do. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u59	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. To establish positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ardanza. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to express our solidarity and affection to the families and relatives of the 21 people who died and of the 147 who were injured in the tragic railway accident in Angrois, of which within eighty-seven days it will be three years. We believe that the best way to honor memory and do justice to victims is by helping to clarify what happened that day. Similarly, once an accident has occurred, we must have all the means and instruments necessary to prevent this from happening again. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to investigate, to know all the circumstances that led to the occurrence of that accident, and that means equipping us with all the necessary technical and human mechanisms to reach the end. It is true that after the accident an internal audit and investigation was launched and that on 2 August 2013, by ministerial order of the Ministry of Development, a scientific technical commission was created for the study of improvements for the Spanish railway sector. Both the Commission for the Investigation of Railway Accidents and the Scientific Technical Commission have concluded and issued their relevant reports. However, this House did not formally investigate or obtain its own information in order to be able to prosecute the appropriateness or effectiveness of the measures or decisions taken by the politicians in the exercise of their functions. [[Rumors]] Just as we affirm that without judicial control there is no rule of law, we say that without political control there is no democratic State, one of the fundamental controls being parliamentary control through which the actions of the Government are monitored, and it is the commissions of inquiry that are directly connected with that parliamentary control function. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u61	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u62	It is not a question of seeking the guilt of anyone, but of seeking political responsibility, by action or omission, in the event that it is appropriate. We believe that what is really important for the committees of inquiry is the actions that take place in them, the ability to obtain information and to carry out the necessary checks and, above all, the debate that all this gives rise to and that makes it possible to have a sound information of the facts investigated, and the publicity of the debates is also an element that accompanies the committees of inquiry. Citizenship requires political power, requires administrations and institutions to be open and transparent to information that interests public opinion and, above all, to be willing to be accountable. We would also like to state that the concrete moment we are at cannot be missed. Judicial proceedings are under way and, in addition, in a very advanced state. The investigation phase is complete and we are already in time for oral trial. Creating a commission of inquiry could now be understood by those affected as a genuine parallel trial, because when the parliamentary investigation coincides with criminal justice, reality shows us that, although in theory both processes can be carried out in parallel and isolated from each other, the simultaneousity of both makes that more a desire than a reality. We sincerely believe that in the course of the judicial proceedings and in the judgment ending this process, facts and considerations will be laid down on the cases which led to the occurrence of this accident; facts and considerations which, together with the reports which they have before the Committee on Development, will serve us to accept the creation of a commission of inquiry into the causes of the Angois rail accident. However, we are not going to oppose the creation of this committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Ardanza. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel has the floor. [[Democracy of the Llibertad]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, on behalf of the Catalan Group, I would like to greet and transfer to the families and victims of the accident our solidarity and our work so that they can find at least one explanation that can satisfy them. [[Democracy of the Llibertad]] In any case, I would say to you that our group is going to vote in favour of this committee of inquiry, although not without a few qualifications. In situations such as this, no effort should be spared to clarify as much as possible the reasons for such an accident. We understand that all the efforts that are made will be few, because if you can't move the feeling that you are trying to hide something that may not exist. We shall therefore vote in favour. Second thought. Sometimes the commissions of inquiry are not such, but they are intended for other purposes. That is a mistake, but this mistake should not lead us to avoid them. We must ensure that they serve their main purpose, that they are not the reason for strictly seeking political conflict, political vendetta or any other of these circumstances. However, from our point of view, the way to prevent it is not to avoid the creation of the committee of inquiry. Third reflection. We will vote in a few minutes before the end of this plenary session, which will be the last of the parliamentary term. With this, this has a somewhat poor, somewhat limited journey. Some of you will tell us - and you will not lack reason - that the symbolic character is important and that, in any case, this will be able to recover in a forthcoming legislature. This is true, but it must also serve them to reflect on the inability of the four large groups in this House to set up a government; inability that we, in Catalonia, are surprised by. I invite the four major groups to go to the hemeroteca and see what their leaders were saying at the state and national level regarding the situation that was taking place in Catalonia. Apply the story, transfer those statements to what is going on here, although with a difference, which in Catalonia was resolved, it was possible to agree. Not without difficulties, not without sacrifices, but agreement was made according to the mandate of the citizenry. That you have not been able to do here, nor have you been able to give an explanation or convince the citizens. I invite you to a final reflection. If citizens repeat their vows, if citizens reassign us a similar or identical arithmetic to what we have today, what are they going to do? Are we going to get this commission of inquiry back? Obviously. Are we going to recover all those initiatives that are going to fall? But what are you going to do? They're gonna have to make a deal, they're gonna have to make a deal. And at that point someone will have to explain why this wasn't done months ago. I'm telling you, that's gonna be really hard to explain. And another reflection in the wake of this. Before giving lessons to Catalonia in terms of pacts, in terms of government formation or how to do politics, first solve problems at home and, once they are resolved, come and give advice to others. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u65	Thank you, Mr. Bel. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u66	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning. I come with four sentences. I do not want to take advantage of this intervention from the rostrum merely to remind the 81 dead, the 147 wounded, their families and their pain, so that it is not repeated, so that it is known. Let everything be known exactly and soon. There you go. From here I see a path that I don't know where it's going; as far as I know, I want or can walk. You couldn't finish a legislature without quoting Rosalía, I think. Thank you very much, Mr President. See you soon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Navarro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group and the Mixed Group bring to this House this request for the creation of a commission of inquiry into the railway accident in Angrois, undoubtedly one of the most serious and tragic consequences of history. The 81 dead, 147 wounded and their families do not allow us to forget this very harsh event. Nothing can compensate those who have lost loved ones and those who suffer permanent sequelae, but at least their pain will not be increased if they feel that they have really understood what has happened and if they prove that they have really taken the necessary steps to minimize the risk that something like this may happen again. We want to start by making clear what we do not intend with a committee of inquiry. Firstly, we do not intend to interfere with the work of the courts or question their proceedings. In Citizens we want precisely the opposite: to begin to reverse the politicization of justice and try to expel political power from those areas that, in their expansive desire, have colonized, including some of the judiciary. We would not be very sincere in this endeavour if, on the first occasion before us, we tried to direct, evaluate or judge those who really had to judge. Secondly, we do not want to fall into retrospective fallacy, that mental mechanism present in all humans that makes it seem to us, once things have happened, to see a logical scheme that was obvious, so that it should have been anticipated beforehand. I'll come back to this later. Nor should we interfere with the work of the technicians, and should we confine ourselves only to the analysis of political decisions. But, ladies and gentlemen, here we will find some problem; specifically, at least two. Ladies and gentlemen, the first NLP presented by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group in the Committee on Development was on the creation of an infrastructure plan and an independent evaluation office to judge investment projects in infrastructure, transport and housing, according to criteria of socio-economic viability and opportunity cost between different alternatives. With this we intend something that is both simple and revolutionary: to ensure that the decisions in Fomento are made according to criteria of utility and not of electoral profitability. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u69	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, to inaugurate works in infrastructure, to appear in the media by cutting the corresponding tape, to be able to say to your electorate: I carried such work to such a place, it is an irresistible temptation for politicians. In this way, it is not uncommon for investments to be measured not on the basis of their social profitability, their social utility, but on the basis of their return in votes. Was there this temptation in the Angois case? Could there have been a hurry to cut some tape? And, if this hurry existed, did it determine that changes were not foreseen in the original project or did it prevent timely risk assessment studies from being carried out? These and others, ladies and gentlemen, are the questions that a committee of inquiry has to answer. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said that we do not want to fall into retrospective fallacy and believe that things, once they have happened, were obvious from the beginning. But if we want to learn from the mistakes, we have to understand what has happened. In life it is impossible to aspire to zero risk, but to minimize the likelihood of accidents we must understand how they occur. Psychologist James Reason developed a famous model to manage the risk of accidents in organizations with high-tech and high-impact systems, as is the case here. According to him, in addition to the immediate trigger - in this case, it would be the performance of the driver, something that, in any case, it is the courts that have to determine it - we must take into account what he calls latent errors. Reason imagines the different levels of an organization as if they were sliced. A first slice would be that of business decisions or, in this case, politics. A second would be the technical levels of information, how the information is transmitted. In the last level would be the operators, which are the pilots on the planes, the drivers on the trains, who handle the controls at a nuclear power plant. Really, if we were in an ideal world, these slices would be solid and impermeable to error, but in the real world this does not happen. In real life these slices have holes and that's why this model is often called the Swiss cheese model. When there is a hole in one of the two levels - for example, the possibility of a driver getting lost - the eventual accident is avoided if the rest of the slices are solid. But when there are holes in all of them and these holes are aligned, there is a window of opportunity for accidents. This may be what happened in Angrois. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is up to us to act at the first level, that of political decision-making, and we believe that the best way to prevent holes is by double and simultaneous action. Firstly, as we have said, we must move electoralism away from the decisions of Fomento, we must ensure that electoral revenue does not influence investment decisions. And secondly, we must separate politicians from technicians; we must prevent the greater or lesser docility of technicians from being one of the secrets of their failure or professional success; we must remove them from the pressures of politicians; we must achieve a more independent administration, in which the best and not the most willing to follow the instructions of the incumbent politician thrive. How many of the authors and signatories of the reports issued in this case were charges of free designation? How many had actually been chosen according to objective criteria of technical solvency? Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that there are reports on the accident, but it is also true that they are reports of some kind. These are reports from the Ministry of Development to decide whether the Ministry of Development did well. They have certainly contributed to improvements, but it seems reasonable that an independent committee should do so. For this reason, from Citizens we will support the establishment of this commission. I want to say one last thing. Throughout this intervention we have insisted on the depoliticisation of the decisions of Fomento. Let us not now fall into the politicization of the commission. Let us not use this matter as a bold electoral weapon. We're not looking for lynching. We seek to learn from mistakes to avoid them in the future. By the way, Members of Parliament for Podemos, we have drawn attention to the composition of the committee they are proposing, in which only parties with more than 50 seats have the right to three members. Ladies and gentlemen, if you wanted to reduce Citizen participation, you could have set the limit at 41. [[Applauds]] In any case, in all the committees in which we have participated we have protected the participation of minorities, with which, when the time comes, we will already discuss the composition. On the other hand, we would not like you to be forced to have only two participants in the next parliamentary term. [[Laughter and applause]] I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, since this is the last matter of a brief parliamentary term, I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, to thank all the staff working in Congress for their work. We have all appreciated their professionalism and education, which have been very useful to us over these weeks. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Navarro. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gordo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words in this speech to be a reminder of the victims and also of the recognition of the family members who suffered this fateful accident. The Socialist Party has always been at the side of the victims, always; it has always been with its pain, in the repair of pain and suffering and in the search for solutions. This rail accident has been the worst in Spain in the last 40 years. Unfortunately, 81 people died and more than 145 were injured. In Angrois politicians like Carlos died; students like David and Laura; professors like Juan Manuel; journalists like Enrique; retirees, professionals, compatriots and citizens of other latitudes. We were all traveling that day on that train and we could all have been victims of that accident. Ladies and gentlemen, from our group we firmly believe that the question we are debating today does not include frivolity, superficiality and political opportunism. At the same time we understand that this accident cannot be instrumentalized for electoral and party purposes, and have complete assurance that the PSOE will not do so. [[Applauds]] As you know very well, the relevant judicial and technical investigation was opened after the accident, and days later the Government appeared in Parliament at its own request but also at the request of the other groups. The plenary session of the Congress, on October 10, 2013, approved by agreement of all groups the creation of a subcommission for the study and analysis of the railway sector. It is true that groups such as the United Left - Plural Left at that time - called for a subcommission on railway safety and emergency plans in the event of railway accidents. By the way, this request does not correspond to the various motions that have been tabled by the United Left in different municipalities and parliaments, where it reiterates the request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. The Socialist Group also called for a subcommission for the study and analysis of the railway accident in Santiago, as well as the proposal for measures to improve railway safety; a proposal which had the sole intention of entering into the analysis of the causes and at the same time drawing conclusions so that such accidents would not occur again in the future. Both proposals fell apart. No one can escape that the People's Party had an absolute majority - I think it was something obvious - but the report of the subcommittee on the study and analysis of the railway system was approved in the Committee on Development with 34 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 1 vote against, and it also had 43 individual votes, mainly from nationalist groups and groups that are now part of the Joint Group. By the way - because sometimes memory is fragile - the only contributions made by these groups were semantic: commas, dots and some lesser appreciation; they never entered the cause. Having said that, as Mr Baldoví has already pointed out, all the groups were part of this submission, in which it worked for two years and which was attended by more than 40 experts. The subcommission had the best disposition of the groups and a minimum agreement had been reached. What I agree with - as has already been said here - is that it was a useful proposal for the future safety of the railway sector. It is only fair that the 20 Members who continuously worked on that submission, in which they spent a lot of time - I am seeing its president, Celso Delgado, but also Pere Macias, Rafa Simancas, Laura Seara or Rosana Pérez, whom I remember with a very important dedication - deserve recognition, because that subcommission drew important conclusions. Firstly, it created the Railway Safety Agency, which is key to the prevention and management of future safety, but it also established as a guide the maximum collaboration with justice and preventive measures, as well as 14 other measures that I do not want to reiterate. Ladies and gentlemen, so far the facts. But to analyse the opportunity of the committee requires, from my point of view, two questions: one in the area of security and the other an analysis of the open judicial case. In terms of safety, I believe that from the accident we must reflect on the railway system, on decision-making, on whether or not we are investing in safety. It's not about seeking criminal responsibility, because that's what the courts are for and they have more information than anyone else. I do not even think that the only objective of the committee - if it were set up - was to analyse political responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are political responsibilities, which are assumed - the Socialist Party has no problem - but I believe that we must direct our efforts - as the subcommittee has done - to improve the aspects in which rail transport must be improved so that a tragedy of these characteristics never again occurs. We must avoid future tragedies. [[Applauds]] The initial findings of the judicial investigation indicate that everything was carried out in accordance with the law and the railway regulations. What then failed? Are the protocols, the procedures, or do we have a railway organization not adequate to the responsibility? Or maybe we're not investing enough in railway safety? These are the answers that we need to answer and we need to clarify, because it will be of no use to ask for political responsibilities if we do not answer these questions, the charges that happen will fall into the same systemic errors and, worse, we will be in a position to have another tragedy happen again. [[The lady]] In my view, there are three nuclear issues in this area: one technological, one regulatory and one commercial. From a technological point of view, the train was operating with a system called ASFA, which is a point-to-point signal speed control system. We must ask ourselves whether this security system is what society demands, because we could have gone to a continuous evaluation system as is the system technically called Ertms. This system is a system that needs more resources, it is much more expensive and extending it to the whole railway system would require a great application and here we have the dilemma of choosing, we have to choose between policies. I also have to tell you that there is no zero risk in engineering. We can invest everything we want, that we will always find a way by which an accident can occur. I therefore understand that our work as political representatives should - once defined by the technicians as the level of associated risk - prioritize investments. This is from a technological point of view. From the normative point of view, it is a reality that in our country currently coexist four different regulations in different stages and routes. It may not be the right thing to do, but this is an issue that we must also discuss and discuss. And finally, from a technical point of view, I want to tell you that there is a commercial aspect. A line control system interlinked with a control system in mobile material, which are incompatible trains, is now possible. This is another issue that we need to clarify. There is also another fundamental element, which is the open judicial case. In parallel with the work of this sub-mission, justice has been working to delineate responsibilities and to compensate victims and their families; the case has not yet been completed, is ongoing and pending at the moment of oral trial. And the question we are discussing today is whether or not a commission of inquiry should be set up three years later on a case in which there is also an open court case and an order from the Provincial Court of A Coruña where no ADIF charge is made. Without going into the substance of the matter, I would like to share two thoughts. Firstly, whoever brings this initiative today knows that this committee of inquiry, although we approved its creation today, will not be able to start its work. The initiative will fall. We fear that it is now seeking more political profitability in the face of the upcoming elections than contributing to the possible search for the truth and repairing the damage of the victims. [[Applauds]] And what is more serious, generating expectations for the victims of the accident, who know for sure that although we are voting favourably today they will not be satisfied with the blockade for the formation of government. Second consideration, the question is raised as to whether one should...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u73	Mr. Gordo.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u74	...to set up this commission without closing the court case. If we followed the criteria of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, we could not examine facts of which a court is familiar until the procedure is concluded. There is a need to distinguish between political responsibility and criminal responsibility. It is a basic budget of a democratic and rule of law State. At the same time, there would be pollution between two processes that should be isolated and separated, when such pollution can have consequences that affect fundamental process rights and guarantees. To finish. On the basis of the contents of the presentation, my group wishes to reiterate its commitment to article 117 of the Spanish Constitution, respect for the independence of justice. I say this because of the considerations he makes in the explanatory statement, which I think we need to stress. Today fortunately our transport model is a model of great capacity, efficient, with outstanding subjects on which we must advance and improve among all, with the consensus of all and determining the resources to be applied. At the same time, we also call for the non-European interests of the rail system not to delegitimise the quality of a system which is at the forefront of Europe. Indeed, among all of us, we have to make our rail system remain a benchmark and not cause accidents like that of Angrois again. The victims will always be in our memory and in our heart. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u75	Thank you, Mr. Gordo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ayala.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to send a warm greeting from the People's Parliamentary Group to the victims and their families and to show them our full respect and understanding. We're saddened by his pain. Dealing is never enough or enough attention for those who see their vital project, happiness, life and future of their own truncated. Therefore, they have every right and we have an obligation to care for them. [[Applauds]] In the Angois accident, the government reacted from the very beginning. All those responsible were at the very few hours in Santiago at the head of all the proceedings absolutely immediately and, I must also say, effectively in what was at that time the fundamental thing: to care for the victims and their families. And the same must be said, in honor of the truth, of the actions of the Government of the Xunta, of the city hall, of the health services, of the Civil Protection, of the police, of the Civil Guard, of the volunteers, etc. Yeah, from the very first moment. One, the Government immediately established the affected care office to guarantee them comprehensive and personalized assistance. This office continues to operate today, caring for victims and family members both by telephone and by telematics, providing psychological assistance and any kind of support they need. Two, on the same day 25 July, an internal audit was launched - here it has been said - within the Ministry of Development to analyse the entire railway system. Three, on 8 and 9 August, appearances were held at the Promotion Commission, at its own request, by the minister and the presidents of ADIF and Renfe to detail proceedings related to the accident, and in that appearance the minister has already announced a set of twenty measures on the railway sector that were then extended to twenty-two. Four, the Commission for the Investigation of Railway Accidents, CIAF, made a comprehensive report. As you know, the ICFC is an independent body, and I would like to remind you that its members are appointed by the approval of this Congress, which are immobile and in turn irreligible; therefore, absolutely independent. It is therefore worth reading page 104 of the conclusions of that report and also page 102 of the Ertms system. The report is published by the CIF and is available on the Commission's website. Five, on 2 August 2013, the Technical-Scientific Commission for the Study of Improvements in the Rail Sector was set up to analyse and implement possible improvements. This commission has been made up of independent professionals of prestige and its conclusions and executive summary is also available to everyone. These conclusions point out that, in spite of the circumstances, the Spanish railway sector has a high level of technology and services and enjoys a world-renowned reputation. The committee itself says, and it should be read, that, despite the different views, despite the needs to meet all sectors, the report's outcome and recommendations are shared by all its members. Six, on 18 September 2013, the proposal for the creation of a subcommission to draw up the report on the situation of infrastructure and the proposals for improvement was raised to this plenary session. Here we have already commented - I am grateful for the comments that have been made by different speakers - on the difficult task we had, the contributions that have been made from all the technical, professional, trade union, sociological, manufacturers, builders, operators, workers... All aspects were analyzed: economic, social, political, technical aspects of all kinds, R+D+i, security, development and future. The first conclusion drawn by that subcommission was to endorse and accept the report of the technical and scientific committee, and then, as has also been said here, to obtain support for the conclusions of that subcommission by 34 votes to three, with one abstention and one vote against. Seven, finally, a royal decree of July 2014 with a comprehensive scheme of protection for victims, their assistance, protection plans and increased compensation for compulsory travel insurance. [[The Lord]] The actions of the Government and this Congress have been meticulous and comprehensive. We cannot say the same about the initiative that we are debating today and that we have the sad honor that it is the last of this parliamentary term and therefore absolutely sterile. The proponents know this and if they have insisted on their debate it is because it is part of their tactics, not even their strategy. It is a further demonstration of what we are accustomed to in this finite legislature: blows of effect without real content, but media. On the other hand, what they feed on. Its content, depth and rigor do not come out better still. All they ask - I read literally - is the creation of a commission on the causes of the accident and after it. That's what it puts in the literality. Then the statement of motives comes trumped up by the consubstantial demagogy: inoperation of justice, immobilization of the Administration to clarify motives and purify responsibilities... All right, but that's what you ask, and another thing you say. We deeply respect the judiciary and do not judge the work of justice. Therefore, as long as this issue is pending a judicial decision, the legislative power should not and cannot be interfered with. That said, it is difficult for a committee of inquiry in Congress to judge judicial decisions. They're wrong again. In Spain, which is a rule of law, there is a separation of powers. Not anywhere else. Similarly, we reject the fact that there has been immobilisation in the administrations and that the Government has not been demanding with truth and action. Notice, of the measures announced by the minister in August 2013, 19 are already implemented and improved and three are being completed. In other words, constant action and total demand, not only in the clarification of the truth, but also in the measures to ensure that accidents of this nature are not repeated. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u77	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u78	We all know that total security does not exist and that zero risk does not exist, but some, like you, are forgotten when you are interested. It is clear that the proponents have an interest in this debate. They know the interest they have, they know that this committee, if it is approved, which seems difficult, is not going to be able or set up. Well, yourself. One last question, proposers. You brag about democrats and like to quote the classics. They should know, therefore, that demagogy is the pathology of democracy. What would the Greeks call the Lords of Podemos who intend to set up a committee and whose composition is as democratic as 22% of Members of the House have a majority in the committee? Yeah, 22%. According to his proposal, 77 Members would have 10 representatives and 78%, 273 Members, nine representatives. If you wish, Mr Iglesias, I will explain it to you in another way: 40% would have 13 and 60% would have 6 Members. This is the respect you have for the representation and the results of the ballot boxes. [[Applauds]] Do I repeat, Mr. Churches, or do you understand? We know what they think of power. The best example: when I'm not interested in rules, I skip them. Here's still Judge Rosell. That's what you think of power. [[Greetings.-Mrs.Montero Gil: Return what you have stolen]] I hope and trust, and this concludes, that in the elections to which we are going to be called, they will be more serious for the good of Spain and the Spanish. It must be made clear that it is the courts of justice that have to do justice and that the victims deserve our full respect, which is precisely not what you have. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ayala.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u80	We turn to the last item on the agenda concerning the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of the Members. The President, Mr Barreda, has the floor on behalf of the Commission for three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said, I agree with the rostrum as chairman of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies to present to the House the opinion delivered by the Commission in connection with the statements made by its honourable Members on the activities of this House, an opinion which has been adopted unanimously and for which I call for the support of this House. From the outset, the Commission considered that we should do our utmost to complete this opinion, not because of the incognites that might then exist on the continuity of the legislature, but because of the responsible exercise of the function that we have assigned, which is nothing other than to rule on whether or not we comply with the legal forecasts of the activities of the members of the House, an opinion... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u82	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u83	... as to the transparency of these activities and as to whether it requires a thorough examination prior to the declaration of their compatibility or incompatibility with the status of member of Congress. We felt it was important and we felt it was fair to have this opinion as a duty to the citizens who elected us and also to each member of Congress. It is this will that has made it possible to complete the task and deliver a full opinion affecting all the members of the House, the agreed and unanimous opinion of all the members of the Commission, and to do so within a relatively short period of time compared to previous legislatures. The committee has held a total of five meetings, requested clarifications from the honourable Members when it has understood this correctly, made a good number of requests and, after meeting on 30 March, set the deadline of 11 April to complete the replies. It has examined and completed the documentation with the essential assistance of the services of the House and, finally, has incorporated its conclusions into this opinion. The Commission's work has therefore been essentially technical, relying on the advice of the services of the House. It is clear that the Commission has acted within the strict limits of its competence, and I would say that it has issued its opinion on compatibility or incompatibility in the light of existing legislation. We all know that there is the possibility and the declared will to review such legislation in different ways, with different scope and from different political conceptions. That is why, although it is not necessary, of course, I would like to stress that we have worked with the existing rules, regardless of the view that each group deserves such rules, applying them fairly... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u84	Mr. Barreda, just a moment. Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u85	He said that by applying them fairly and asking for more detail, further development in the information provided by Members before making our decision. In any case, if nothing prevents it, this will be the last intervention from this rostrum in this legislature, and it would be good to end in positive. I would therefore like to conclude by thanking on behalf of all the members of the Commission for the sensitivity of your ladies and gentlemen to the requests made to them, for the acceptance of the criteria of the Commission, for the cooperation of the groups of the House in speeding up the procedures and documents which have finally enabled us to reach this opinion and, of course, for the work of the services of the House, in particular those of Mr José Luis Peñaranda, a lawyer of the Commission, for his goodness, his know-how and his professionalism. And if I may, as chairman, I thank the spokespersons of all the groups in the Commission for how much they have facilitated the work of the chairman in these months. Without further ado, ladies and gentlemen, I request the House's support for this opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Barreda. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u87	We will vote, first of all, on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree Law 1/2016 of 15 April, extending the activation programme for employment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 325 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u88	Since no group has requested its processing as a draft law, this royal decree is validated.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u89	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Mixto parliamentary groups to set up a committee of inquiry into the railway accident in Angrois. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 132 against, 199 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u90	It's rejected. [[Several guest gentlemen from the public gallery show DVDs and yellow T-shirts reading: 'Truth.Justice. No more lies/Research Commission', while they say: hypocrites! You're hypocrites! See it. You had to see the film.-Applause of the Members of the Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, stood up.- A lady Member: What a shame!]] I ask you, please, to evict the public who are making those comments because, as you know, it is not allowed. [[That's how the House services do it.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u91	We are now voting on the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of the most excellent Members. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 322 against, 1 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-28-CD160428.u92	It was adopted. Before I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, allow me one last word because this is the last plenary session of the XI Legislature, the shortest in our recent history, and I would like, on my behalf, to speak on behalf of the entire Bureau, and I am sure that in yours too, I would first like to thank all the workers of Congress who, although they are often not seen, are there, as they are now, making all this work and making it easier for us. Also thank the journalists who make our voices not to be lost in the echo of this Chamber and who are the watchful eye that transmits to the citizen the plural truth, as plural its as ours. We have had a short legislature, but we have faced from constitutional loyalty and respect for the law to unplanned situations. Not only have we followed parliamentary customs, but we have also set precedents and even disagreements have led them to the jurisdictional path provided for in the Constitution. I deeply regret the failure of this House to reach an agreement to form a government, as was our obligation. However, I'm sure the next one will get it. And in addition to this regret, he wanted to claim the strength of democratic institutions and constitutional legality. Failure to reach a political agreement has not meant any instability or institutional blockage. The institutions have worked and that honors our democracy. We have discussed and agreed to adopt proposals that it is true that they are not going to become laws, but we have kept this Chamber as the place of the word, the place where every Member has had the same right to the word as another and in that is what the Greeks, who taught us the way - together with the equality of the vote - based democracy. I end with an old Basque proverb: Gaizki esanak barkatu eta ongi esanak gogoan hartu. Forgive me for the wrong words and pick only the right ones. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was 12 noon.
