ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We reconvene the session and begin with the appearance of the President of the Government in office in relation to the three requests for appearance of the Socialist, Mixed and Podemos-En Comú Podem-En Marea parliamentary groups, as well as the Government at its own request, included in the agenda and which, in accordance with the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, will be processed cumulatively. To that end, I have the floor of the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appear before the plenary session of the Congress to report on the European Councils of February and March this year and on the European Union-Turkey Summit of 18 March. In the first of these, the European Council of 18 and 19 February, we decided on a new UK fit into the European Union. As your ladies and gentlemen will recall, Prime Minister Cameron announced in January 2013 his intention to negotiate it and then submit it to the referendum of the British people before the end of 2017. After intensive negotiations on 18 and 19 February, the Heads of State and Government adopted a decision with a series of annexed declarations establishing this new United Kingdom fit into the European Union, which is structured into four areas: economic governance, competitiveness, sovereignty, and social benefits and free movement. Before I enter into what has been agreed in each of these sections, I would like to stress the context in which this negotiation has taken place: the decision of Prime Minister Cameron to put to the referendum a new status for the United Kingdom within the Union, in accordance with the concerns he had expressed in these four areas, and the willingness to ask for the vote in favour of staying in the European Union only if a satisfactory response was given to them. With regard to economic governance, the Decision establishes a safeguard to prevent discrimination against natural or legal persons in the Union on the basis of the currency of their Member State. It also incorporates the guarantee that taxpayers of Member States whose currency is not the euro will not be responsible for operations to support the common currency. Neither of these proposals posed any difficulties, since the principle of non-discrimination is recognised in the Treaties as one of the basic principles of the Union and the non-participation of Member States whose currency is not the euro in the European Stability Mechanism or in the former European Financial Stability Fund is already established. [[MEASUREMENT]] In this area, a safeguard mechanism for non-euro States has also been introduced which will enable them to communicate to the Council their opposition to measures, the adoption of which is governed by a qualified majority within the Council, when they understand that their interests may be injured as a result of their non-participation in the common currency. In accordance with the mechanism provided for, after the timely notification, the Council will be obliged to seek a broader basis for the agreement within a reasonable time and without altering the legislative procedure. Initiatives to broaden the basis of the agreement include the possibility of referring the matter to the European Council for discussion, but this will under no circumstances mean that non-euro States have a veto or limit the ability of the euro States to take decisions they deem appropriate for the proper functioning of economic and monetary union. The second section deals with competitiveness and reiterates the objective of achieving a more competitive Union for the sake of growth and job creation and a Union that deepens the internal market and reaches comprehensive trade agreements, as well as that succeeds in reducing the regulatory burden on companies. These proposals, as expressed in the decision, generated broad consensus. Achieving a competitive European Union in the world is a goal that we all share. The third section, devoted to sovereignty, however, gave rise to a greater debate, as one of the proposals by Prime Minister Cameron meant giving up the essence of the European project, an ever closer Union among the peoples of Europe, which is contained as they know in Article 1 of the Treaty on European Union. Finally, the agreement reached recognises that the United Kingdom, in the light of the specific situation laid down in the Treaties, is not committed to greater political integration in the Union. The reference to an ever closer Union is compatible with different paths and allows a deeper degree of integration to those who share that vision of their common future. This section also agreed to strengthen the role of national parliaments in monitoring compliance with the principle of subsidiarity through a new mechanism. This provides for Member States to suspend consideration of a draft legislative act where the reasoned opinions of the national parliaments indicating that the principle of subsidiarity is not complied with represent more than 55% of the votes attributed to those parliaments. This does not constitute a substantial change in relation to Protocol No 2 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. The fourth and final section has been, ladies and gentlemen, the most controversial. It deals with social benefits and free movement. This was one of the fundamental elements of British concerns, as well as of the rest of the partners. After intensive discussions, the following were decided: the adoption of appropriate transitional measures in the relevant minutes of accession of new partners on the free movement of persons and the finding that Member States may take measures to prevent fraud or abuse of freedom of movement such as marriages of convenience, fictitious residences in another Union State or forged documents. It was also agreed that the European Commission would submit a proposal to amend the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems, which would include the option for Member States to index the benefits received by minors to the standard of living of the Member State in which they reside. This is a forecast designed for situations of exportation of benefits of minors who do not reside in the worker's Member State. This measure will apply only to new workers. The Commission has stated - this is important - that it will not propose this measure in the future in relation to other social security benefits, such as pensions. It was also agreed that the Commission would present a proposal for an amendment to the Freedom of Movement for Workers Regulation within the Union, introducing an alert mechanism responding to situations of influx of exceptional magnitude and for a prolonged period of time for workers from other Member States affecting essential aspects of their social security system. In this case, on a proposal from the Commission, the Council could authorise the Member State concerned to restrict to the extent necessary access to non-contributory benefits linked to the pursuit of a professional activity. This proposal, which was the most controversial, was finally approved only after the introduction of certain guarantees. They are as follows: the restriction refers exclusively to non-contributory benefits, in no case to social security aid; limited in time, for a maximum of four years for each worker; always for future workers and never retroactively; gradually, so that the worker concerned will gradually be incorporated into the collection of all aid; and finally, with adequate procedural guarantees. The decision cannot be taken by the Member State if the Commission has not made the relevant proposal and without the necessary authorisation to be approved by the Council for a maximum period of seven years. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the data of our consulates, only 4,620 Spaniards working in the United Kingdom would have applied for a social benefit until February 2015; of these, 2,120 Spaniards received unemployment benefits that will not be affected by the agreement reached. The number of Spanish workers who would be affected is therefore very small because, where appropriate, it would only affect new workers entering the labour market and because the social benefits to which they refer are exclusively non-contributory assistance. Finally, I must point out that this is not a treaty reform and that the agreement will only have effect if the outcome of the referendum on 23 June keeps the United Kingdom within the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, behind these negotiations was the shared desire to keep the United Kingdom as a member of the European Union, but - this is very important - at the same time preserving the principles, values and objectives that constitute the essence of the Union and to which Spain is fully committed. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the content of the decision is based on respect for this dual condition. At the moment we wish the British people a fruitful debate in view of the referendum scheduled to take place on 23 June. I believe, in any case, that the interests of Europe, the interests of Spain and the interests of the Spaniards residing in the United Kingdom will be better served if the United Kingdom remains in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now turn to the European Union-Turkey Summit on 18 March, as well as to the March European Council in which we discuss the following issues: migration, first of all, and the priorities that define economic action at national level, which always approves, as you know, the March European Council within the normal procedures of economic policies in the European Semester. As you know, this European Council was the ninth to address the migration issue, which shows to what extent migration is one of the major – if not the largest – challenges facing the European Union today. We can certainly say that we have taken decisive steps that bring us closer to their proper treatment. With regard to the European Union-Turkey Summit and in order to understand the framework in which it took place, we must go back to the previous summit on 7 March, which was followed by an informal meeting of Heads of State and Government. This summit sought that the institutions, Member States and Turkey analyse the functioning of the joint action plan that had been agreed with Turkey on 29 November 2015, the key to resolving the current migration and refugee crisis. On the morning of 7 March the Turkish Prime Minister, Mr Davutoglu, presented a proposal which the Heads of State and Government of the Twenty-eight did not know and which we therefore had no opportunity to analyse. At the end of the subsequent informal meeting of the Twenty-eight and after a long discussion session, the Heads of State and Government of the European Union issued a statement, rather than an agreement. In this - I quote textually - we decided to work on the basis of the principles contained in that proposal and in this respect we gave a mandate to the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk, to negotiate a future text with the Turkish authorities respecting European and international law. Already in an almost immediate reaction of the committees of permanent representatives of 9 and 11 March and in the preparatory councils - in particular, at the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 10 and 11 March and at the General Affairs Council of 15 March - Spain, like many other countries, expressed concern that the agreement finally reached would scrupulously respect international and European law. Spain warned that it could not accept solutions that did not fully respect that European and international legality. Within this inescapable respect for international and European law, Spain insisted on three fundamental principles: the necessary respect for the principle of non-refoulement, the prohibition of mass returns and the individualised examination of asylum applications. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, asylum is a right recognised by the 1950 European Convention on Human Rights; by the 1951 Geneva Convention; by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union; by Articles 78 to 80 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; by Directive 2013/32/EU on common procedures for granting or withdrawing international protection; and by Directive 2008/115, on common rules and procedures for the return of third-country nationals in an irregular situation. These rules contain the principles required by Spain: they prohibit mass returns, guarantee individualized processing of asylum applications and enshrine the principle of non-refoulement; that is, ladies and gentlemen, no one can be returned, expelled or extradited to a State where there is a serious risk of being subjected to the death penalty, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. In addition to these essential concerns, Spain has insisted on all preparatory work in which it is essential that Turkey effectively controls its external borders and fights against the mafias who profit from human trafficking. Spain's action has always been guided by the objectives of saving human lives, ensuring the protection of those who need it, adequately protecting external borders and providing legal immigration channels that provide an alternative for people who decide to risk their lives and physical integrity to reach Europe. Two other points we have insisted on are the following. The liberalisation of visas for Turkish citizens wishing to enter Schengen territory should only take place after the Commission reports on the possible fulfilment of the requirements set out in the road map for this matter. With regard to the opening of new chapters in Turkey's accession negotiations, Spain believes that progress should be conditional on Turkey's complying with the so-called Copenhagen criteria, especially in the area of the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, prior to the European Council, the Secretary of State for the European Union appeared before the Joint Commission for the European Union on 16 March. Indeed, being a government in office we needed the acquiescence of the House in order to be able to negotiate and eventually approve the text presented to the Heads of State and Government at the European Council. At the same meeting on 16 March, the Joint Commission for the European Union unanimously adopted an institutional declaration following the following main elements: that Spain firmly opposes the adoption of any agreement with Turkey which involves direct or indirect collective expulsions; that any expulsion to Turkey would only be possible once the relevant individualised asylum file has been finalized with all guarantees; that compliance with international law, respect for human rights, European asylum legislation and the principle of non-refoulement is ensured; that monitoring mechanisms on the effective destination of economic aid for refugees are strengthened; that measures to protect individuals at risk, especially unaccompanied minors or women victims of gender-based violence are continued; that the European Union assists European countries of reception and transit; that the European Community's common asylum and asylum system is promoted as a genuine policy. Ladies and gentlemen, with this mandate, the elements of which coincide with what Spain had been defending until then, I travelled to Brussels and defended this Spanish position at the summit with Turkey and at the European Council on 17 and 18 March. Immediately before the meeting, we were presented with a draft declaration by the European Union-Turkey which, in my view, did not satisfy the Spanish requirements as contained in the institutional declaration adopted by the Joint Commission and which we had defended at previous meetings. That is why I asked, in line with the mandate of your ladies and gentlemen, that two fundamental questions be explicitly included: the prohibition of mass returns expressly and in a main place, as well as an express reference to the individualised processing of asylum applications, so that there was no doubt that asylum seekers arriving in the Greek islands would have an individualised and personalized procedure, never collective, in accordance with international and European law. After these two references - others had been included in the preparatory meetings - were included, I was able to support the rest of the statement. I then go on to detail its main elements. In a temporary and extraordinary way, all new irregular migrants moving from Turkey to the Greek islands from 20 March 2016 will be returned to Turkey in accordance with international and European law, discarding collective expulsions and respecting the principle of non-refoulement. This fulfils the first mandate of the institutional declaration of the Joint Commission for the European Union. Migrants will be duly registered by the Greek authorities, who will process any asylum application individually, in accordance with the Asylum Procedures Directive and in cooperation with Acnur, thereby complying with the second point of the parliamentary declaration. This whole process must be developed and all parties involved must act in full conformity with international and European Union law, so that all migrants will be protected in accordance with relevant international standards and with respect for the principle of non-refoulement. Migrants who do not apply for asylum or whose application is considered unfounded or inadmissible in accordance with that Directive shall then be returned to Turkey. In order to launch this process Turkey and Greece will be assisted by the institutions of the European Union, but it will be these two countries that will finally agree on the necessary bilateral measures and mechanisms. The costs of returning irregular migrants will be borne by the European Union. Secondly, for each Syrian returned to Turkey from the Greek islands, another Syrian from Turkey will be resettled to the European Union, taking into account the United Nations vulnerability criteria. This latter reference was also introduced at the request of Spain and as a result of the institutional declaration urging us to promote protection measures for people at risk The European Union undertakes to carry out this resettlement, firstly, in compliance with the commitments made in July 2015 and addressing any additional need for resettlement through a similar voluntary agreement. [[unaccompanied minors and women victims of gender-based violence]] This fulfils the mandate of the declaration to promote the establishment of additional safe routes for the arrival and resettlement of refugees. Thirdly, Turkey undertakes to take all necessary measures to prevent the opening of new maritime or land routes of illegal emigration to the Union, and to this end shall cooperate with neighbouring States. Fourthly, once the massive arrival of people between Turkey and the Union has been halted, a voluntary humanitarian admission regime will be launched. Fifth, compliance with the visa liberalisation programme will be accelerated with a view to abolishing visa requirements for Turkish citizens by the end of June 2016, provided that all the benchmarks have been met. I would like to point out once again that the commitment to Turkey expressly states that the reference criteria must be met, the fulfilment of which, as Spain argued, is a sine qua non for visa liberalisation. In addition, following the Commission's positive assessment, the final response will be for the European Parliament and the Council. Sixthly, the European Union, in close cooperation with Turkey, will accelerate the disbursement of the EUR 3 billion initially allocated under the financial facility for Turkey. A first list of specific projects aimed at improving the situation of refugees, in particular in the areas of health, education, infrastructure and food, will be specified. Only when these resources have been used in their entirety and provided that the previous commitments are met will the Union mobilise an additional EUR 3 billion by the end of 2018. In short, what the European Union and Spain wanted to achieve with the European Union-Turkey declaration of March 2018 are the following objectives. Primarily avoiding the loss of human lives, deterring people from exposing themselves to journeys that are very dangerous to their physical integrity and life. Last year, 805 people lost their lives in the crossing of the Aegean and 531 deaths have already been recorded in the course of the year. Secondly, we must fight against the mafia who traffic in human lives and undermine their business model; and, thirdly and lastly - this is particularly important - we must offer people who are eligible for international protection a legal and safe way to apply for asylum in the Union through a resettlement process. In this way, refugees will not need to risk their lives to come to Europe. This is the logic of the formula one by one. Furthermore, once the uncontrolled flow of arrivals has been halted and it is not necessary to continue with the one-by-one mechanism, the resettlement programme will continue through a new humanitarian admission programme. This ensures a legal and secure way of entering the Union without jeopardising the life and physical integrity of persons. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government has fulfilled the mandate contained in the institutional declaration adopted by all parliamentary groups on 16 March, as it has succeeded in introducing the following guarantees into the European Union-Turkey declaration: strict respect for international European legality and express exclusion from any form of collective expulsion, individualised processing of asylum applications and special attention to the most vulnerable. On the other hand, as I indicated at the beginning of my visit, and you are sure to know, in addition to the summit with Turkey, the European Council was held on 17 and 18 March, where other key aspects of migration were addressed, of which the most important are now in detail. The European Council confirmed its overall approach to addressing the migration crisis. In this it aligns with what Spain has always defended, the need to face this challenge in an integral way taking into account all aspects of the migratory phenomenon. The European Council also called for further work on so-called family hotspots. Spain considers that fully operational hotspots are essential for the registration and identification of asylum seekers as an unavoidable prerequisite for relocation. They are therefore necessary to increase the Union's reception capacity and, consequently, to speed up the relocation process. The conclusions call for the use of all means to support Greece's capacity for registration, identification, processing of asylum applications and possible return to Turkey under the Greek-Turkish readmission protocol and the European Union-Turkey readmission agreement for migrants whose asylum applications have been rejected. Member States also committed themselves to providing Greece as soon as possible with the means necessary to ensure the effective implementation of the European Union-Turkey declaration, including border officials with expertise in asylum and interpreters. Spain has already sent the Commission a formal proposal for a contribution in implementation of the commitments resulting from this declaration and from the European Council of 17 and 18 March. On the other hand, urgent assistance has been offered to help Greece improve the situation of refugees and Member States have been invited to make additional contributions under the Civil Protection Mechanism. Spain is one of the twelve Member States that have already contributed to Greece in this specific framework of the civil protection mechanism. In this regard, the early adoption of the regulation establishing an emergency aid instrument with EUR 700 million is considered an important step. In another matter, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council expressly reiterated that it hopes that Turkey will respect the highest level of demand for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression. I would also like to recall that the heads of State and Government have not forgotten in the conclusions our commitment to any neighbouring region, which also suffers the consequences of the massive influx of irregular migrants and refugees from the Syrian conflict. In this context, we reaffirmed our support for Jordan and Lebanon and called for enhanced cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans. In fact, the European Council expressly invited the European Investment Bank to present an initiative aimed at rapidly mobilizing additional funding in support of the southern neighbouring countries and the Western Balkans. The European Council was also vigilant in opening up new irregular immigration routes. In this regard, the fight against mafia trafficking in persons must remain a priority. Finally, the Heads of State and Government are pleased with the progress made in relation to the proposal on the European Border and Coast Guard or the future architecture of the European Union's migration policy, including the Dublin Regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, before continuing with the other issues addressed at the European Council, I would like to stress that the challenge facing Europe is enormous, but if there is any country that is prepared to respond to this challenge, it is Spain, because that is the will and desire of the Spaniards, because that will always - whatever it is, I am convinced - be the commitment of your Government. As you will recall, this is not the first time that the European Union has faced this problem. Spain suffered a similar crisis when in 2006 more than 36,000 people, playing their lives, arrived irregularly by sea from West Africa to the Canary Islands and overflowed our country's reception capacity. In order to successfully resolve that crisis, Spain adopted a series of measures based on cooperation, and even active involvement, with the countries of origin and transit. Among them, a diplomatic deployment: Spain opened embassies, diplomatic offices, interior councils and technical cooperation offices in virtually all the countries of origin of the migratory flows of West Africa. In addition, policies on migration and development were vigorously promoted, focusing aid on projects for the training and employment of young people, thus offering them an alternative to irregular immigration. Agreements were also reached to establish labour migration channels and, in particular, circular migration schemes. Many instruments of migration cooperation were concluded, including a number of readmission agreements, which are still functioning satisfactorily today. Joint maritime and land patrols were established and the European Union was directly involved through Frontex. This includes projects in Africa, in the Sahel, mainly led by Spain and financed by the European Union. A key part of this strategy was the return of irregular immigrants to their countries of origin, which had an immediate deterrent effect. All these operational measures also contributed to the security, stability and governance of the countries of the region. I would like to highlight the date of the crisis and the first response to it from Spain: year 2006. It was the previous Government, but, like any State policy, it had its continuity with the current Executive. This performance has been very well appreciated by our European partners, who recognize the know-how of our country during these years. Also, Spain, always eager to share experience - that of our agents and officials - is committed to contributing national experts who will collaborate under the command of EASO and Frontex. Experts will support EASO's work at the hotspots in Sicily and Lampedusa, as well as the Italian authorities in Rome. On the other hand, Spain has been one of the driving States - I attach great importance to this - of the establishment of a trust fund for Africa. As a result, the European Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and Addressing the Root Causes of Irregular Migration and Displaced Persons in Africa, with €1.8 billion, was established at the Valletta Summit in November 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are acting on a matter that is certainly complex and very difficult to address with responsibility and solidarity. As early as September 2015, Spain committed to relocate nearly 16,000 people from Italy and Greece. This process has begun to run very slowly, sometimes with exasperating slowness, but is accelerating in recent weeks. We are among the first countries that have been willing to relocate refugees. We are one of the fifteen States of the Union that have approved resettlement programmes on an annual basis, which are developed in collaboration with Acnur, as well as with the International Organization for Migration and the countries bordering the conflict areas. We must bear in mind that directly in 2015 more than 5,000 Syrians and 15,000 persons of other nationalities have applied for asylum in Spain, which represents in the case of Syrians more than a third of the total number of asylum applications processed by the Ministry of the Interior. In addition, we have taken additional measures in support of the relocation process and resettlement. The Spanish Government has significantly increased the budget for international protection, both the budgets of the Ministry of the Interior for the resettlement and relocation of refugees and those of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security for the National Reception and Integration System. With this budgetary effort, Spain plans to be able to accommodate not only refugees arriving at its borders, to which we previously referred, but also the relocation and resettlement figures assumed within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin the last part of my speech by commenting on other matters that were also discussed at the European Council on 18 and 19 March. In the European Semester, and as far as economic policy coordination is concerned, the priorities are the same as last year: investment drive, structural reforms and fiscal consolidation compatible with growth. In this respect, the European Commission, in its Country Report for the European Semester, acknowledges the efforts made by Spain and notes the change in the trend of the Spanish economy. The Commission points out that the main risk is the slowdown in the reform agenda, and I agree. It is necessary to continue with reforms such as those we have carried out in these years in order to continue to grow and create jobs in Spain. I am talking about reforms to strengthen the competitiveness of our sectors, rewarding them for their innovation and giving them the best conditions to succeed; reforms to promote job creation and make it more people and more quality, or reforms to promote business development and entrepreneurial initiative. Much remains to be done in this area, and we have also talked about it. A strategic aspect is the debate on the reform of economic and monetary union and the deepening of the single market. This is a discussion in which the Government of Spain has participated actively throughout the legislature. We have always defended an ambitious position. I believe that Europe must move towards greater integration of economic and monetary union, ensuring a more efficient functioning of the euro area and avoiding the recurrence of crises such as that experienced. This requires greater economic integration, greater financial integration and greater fiscal integration. Ultimately, this means a fiscal union with a European budget and the ability to implement stabilization and economic stimulus policies when necessary. And all this, of course, must be accompanied by greater political integration that guarantees the democratic legitimacy of decision-making. A key area in this integration process is the internal market. We have made progress on such important issues as the Digital Agenda or the Energy Union, with important commitments for Spain in the field of interconnections. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. All the issues dealt with at these summits that I have informed you of are important, but I assume that your ladies and gentlemen will agree with me that, for many reasons, the issue of the refugee crisis is of particular relevance. This is not, unfortunately, a new phenomenon. Now its dimension is sharpened by the war conflict in Syria and Isis, and even if it had an early solution, it would remain a crucial fact derived from our geographical position. Years ago I was impressed by the simile that used to be the leader of Algerian independence, Ahmed Ben Bella, who described the Mediterranean as an immense lake that runs northwards with a golf course and southwards with a scallop course, and added that Europeans would be wrong if they believed that in the face of a reality like this they could live quietly behind their walls ignoring this fact. If, at the same time, the factor that best explained the demographic pressure from the south to the north were the significant economic and standard of living differences, there is also another factor today which relates to the most elementary of human rights, the right to life, and I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the most important thing is to be aware of it. We are facing a problem that is going to accompany us for a long time, a problem that we have to solve together because otherwise it could affect basic aspects of the principles of the European Union; a joint response that must transform the problem into a challenge and the challenge into opportunities. Nothing more, ladies and gentlemen. I am at your disposal to answer any questions you may deem appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Several Members stand with their arms up and their wrists crossed.- Rumours.- A Member of Parliament shows a sign reading: Shame!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is now the turn of the parliamentary groups and, first of all, for the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u4	Thank you, President. Welcome to the rostrum of Congress, Mr Rajoy, this is the first time you have spoken as President of the Government in office. [[Rumors]] Look, Congress is the house of dialogue - at least in this legislature - and therefore you should not fear your lordships. Here we come to debate, to talk, to listen, and I certainly intend to treat you on this and on all future occasions - I hope, for obvious reasons, that it is one or none - with all the respect that your status as President of the Government in office deserves. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has not claimed in this House its presence - or that of its Government - for any revanchist desire. We have claimed his presence because it is necessary; it is bound. There is a newly out of the ballot box parliament that represents the renewed popular will and there should be a government in office that truly believes a government; a government with its weakened political capacity, as the Constitution indicates, but that makes decisions and, above all, that is accountable to the courts for them. Mr Rajoy, in office, you, as a government, have spent EUR 3.5 billion; in office, for example, you have given a paper industry a controversial extension of no less than 60 years; that is, you have conditioned fifteen future hypothetical governments with a different opinion. However, you have intended to make us believe that such decisions represent unimportant bureaucratic procedures. You are still instrumentalizing the institutions, Mr Rajoy, as you have done with the General Budgets of the State, presented two months before the elections; budgets, ladies and gentlemen, which no one believed, either within or outside these borders. No one believed them, Mr Rajoy, not even you, because the numbers do not lie; the ones who lied were you and your Government, who knew and denied the number of deficit defaults that Europe denounces. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, billions of euros in budgetary missteps that are a massive deception for citizens and a poisoned legacy for the next government. [[Rumors]] And, ladies and gentlemen, what about the decisions that you take at the European Councils or that your ministers and ministers take at the Councils of Ministers of the European Union. Obviously, the Union cannot stop because in one of the twenty-eight Member States there has been an election or a government in office, that is clear, and I have not asked you to refrain from attending or not to vote at such meetings; on the contrary, the interests of the Spaniards have to be represented in the strongest possible way, and what cannot be admitted is that your Government has said that precisely because it was in office it had to go with free hands and with open mandates. Quite the contrary, Mr Rajoy; in a situation like that which is currently experiencing Spanish politics, the Government is more subject than ever to the mandate and parliamentary control, precisely because it is not in full power and works with diminished legitimacy which contrasts with the full legitimacy of a newly elected Parliament. So, Mr Rajoy, government in office does not mean uncontrolled government. I sincerely appreciate your appearance today, but I tell you that it will be a mere pose if your Government refuses to be accountable, if it refuses to submit to proper monitoring sessions, as unfortunately happened yesterday with the Minister of Development in office. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, as in many other issues, there is no agreement between your Government and Spanish public opinion on refugees. It is surprising that a government representing such a solidarity society as we have seen in recent months can sponsor policies so far away from the sensitivity of its citizens. You seem to be representatives of a society that is afraid of immigration, when it is quite the opposite. And yet, on too many occasions, his Government has shown complete indulgence with those immigrants who need the most support, who are precisely refugees and refugees; a selfish and insolidary attitude, raised to the highest power on 7 March with its support for the pre-agreement of shame between the European Union and Turkey; a pre-agreement that brought about the fundamental principles of the European Union and also respect for human rights. Before 7 March the European Union had already proposed an action plan with Turkey which included European funding, as you have reported; a plan for which it became a sort of waiting room and a distributor of refugees to Turkey; a plan which was the perfect alibi for lazy governments such as yours, Mr Rajoy, and a breath also - to be acknowledged - for those countries overtaken by the flood, such as the German Government. It removed political pressure from them and removed the annoying ethical problem from the eyes of our societies. So, as in the Middle Ages, we were buying a bull to wash away our sins. But, ladies and gentlemen, flow and death did not stop after the action plan, so the issue has remained one of the main problems and priorities of the European agenda. The common idea of all sides was and is to prevent people from endangering their lives and those of their children, and to that end, by paying large sums of money to traffickers, and what we have to do is to discourage that temptation by creating safe alternatives to get to Europe. And that was the aim of the summit with Turkey on 7 March, but the plans prepared for that meeting by the President of the Council, Mr Tusk, came down when the Turkish delegation offered Germany a model based on the return to Turkey of all those who arrived in Greece. The German green light, dictated by an increasingly complex domestic situation, did the rest and, if there was genuine reticence to the pre-agreement, were not known, and of course did not come from you, Mr Rajoy, because you must remember your subsequent press conference, where you gave good for a solution that included the false and illegal solution of collective deportations. In addition, both sides had made an impressive mistake in the negotiation: mixing solutions for refugees with the issue of visas and Turkish candidacy for EU membership. On the afternoon of 7 March, my party already recorded a parliamentary initiative criticizing what we expressly call the undermining of human rights management and urging its Government in office to reconsider it in its final negotiation in the subsequent Council. We also proposed, ladies and gentlemen, different safe routes from those that had been pre-recognized by the European Council, while reminding it once again of its commitments to bring refugees and the repeated offer of many autonomous communities and municipalities in our country. Alongside our frontal opposition, voices from other parliamentary forces, Mr Rajoy, and also voices critical of public opinion by NGOs, the United Nations and even some governments, as well as legal doubts from the services of the European Commission, began to rise. Never in those days, ladies and gentlemen, ever in those days was a critical voice heard from your Government, which also formally refused to appear to discuss these commitments in the Congress of Deputies. On Friday, March 11, however, you began to scold yourself. In the midst of an increasingly critical climate with the pre-agreement, her vice-president announced the desirability of reaching a parliamentary consensus on the Government's position in the Congress of Deputies. The next day, the Foreign Minister was cautiously adding to the legal criticism of collective expulsions and in a couple of days he was declaring to those who would like to hear him that the Government had opposed the pre-agreement from the first minute, a first minute, Mr Rajoy, that the socialists had been made quite long; in particular, his first minute lasted six days. And again this Congress, ladies and gentlemen, took the initiative. We call on the Government to propose to it that an agreed text containing the Spanish position before the Council on 17 and 18 March be drawn up. There was a good reception and the groups began to work on the basis of a draft, which was then supplemented by improvements by all the parliamentary forces and which was being communicated to the Government in office. And with that agreement, with a unanimous parliamentary agreement, Mr Rajoy, the Government was coming to Brussels with sufficient room for manoeuvre but with undoubtedly strengthened political legitimacy. We thought it was a good precedent for whether this interim situation was maintained over time. The agreement required the Government to oppose any express or indirect collective expulsion, that the treatment of asylum files be individualized and complete, guarantees to Turkey, a review of the number of refugees to be received and the establishment of additional safe routes of arrival, especially for the most vulnerable. And it was reiterated for the umpteenth time that the Government should comply with its relocation commitments made last year 2015, commitments whose non-compliance, Mr. Rajoy, remains a shame that his Government transfers to all of Spain. In the European Union's joint declaration with Turkey, illegal collective expulsions were expressly disappeared - it is true, to be acknowledged - and Greece's individual processing of asylum files was ensured, in accordance with the European Asylum Directive. That is why you publicly stated - and you said it again here today - that the Government complied with all the international legality and also with the agreement reached by the various parliamentary forces last day 16. However, the parliamentary consensus required the Government to oppose any system that expresses or indirectly - I would like to recall, expresses or indirectly - could lead to collective expulsions. And there it is, Mr Rajoy, our warning, because there will only be real individualised treatment if after each personal file refugees stay and others are returned. That is individualizing, giving rise to different solutions according to the conditions of each person. So there will be no real individualized treatment if from each processing it is always and in all cases the expulsion for the mere fact of coming from Turkey. That, ladies and gentlemen, is to make collective expulsion appear legal and what we urge you to demand from the European authorities: that the agreement be respected in its literality when it comes to implementing itself so that there is no return of all the refugees who come from Turkey simply because they come from Turkey. Hence our warning that scrupulous respect for the development of the agreement should be ensured. [[Applauds]] Because we cannot close our eyes from the point of view of values, undermining the humanitarian crisis of refugees, Mr Rajoy; nor can we, from the legal point of view, twist international law and its own to give the appearance of legality to a gross violation of human rights; nor can we, from the political point of view, subject the Union to enormous contempt. Mr Rajoy, in another matter, what is your real record of the refugee crisis? Let me remind you of this with official data from the same European Commission last March. From the commitment of 20 July for us as the Government of Spain to resettle 1,449 refugees, do you know what it is? Zero, Mr. Rajoy, zero. And what about the relocation commitments made from Greece and Italy last summer? Of the 9,323 refugees that were ours - ladies and gentlemen, 9,323 refugees that were ours - we have only committed through the formal channels of the Dublin 200 agreements, and we have only received 18 refugees, Mr Rajoy; 18 refugees. Millions of people displaced from their homes fleeing death and barbarism, and his Government had only demonstrated its capacity to accommodate 18 human beings. It's a real shame, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] It is a shame that you are passing on to all Spaniards and Spaniards whose autonomous communities and municipalities are hoping to be able to exercise that solidarity that you deny them, denying it to the refugees themselves and denying it also to the European partners who welcome them with enormous difficulties. So it is not enough to ask in vain, as you do, Mr Rajoy, quotas and expect the refugees to think of Spain, they are not going to do Mr Rajoy, they are dazzled with Germany. And those who see beyond that German radiance, all they see is Austria and the Nordic countries; they are dazzled by Germany and the Nordic countries. We must actively seek out those 18,000 refugees that we have pledged to host. We must create joint teams - government, autonomous communities and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces - as you have been told, Mr Rajoy, and go and show potential applicants the conditions they are going to have, their access to health and education, respect for their religious and social beliefs, tolerance for our society, the initial reception conditions, the profile of our peoples and our cities. Solidarity forces us to look for the refugees, Mr Rajoy, and not wait for Turkey to cover for holding them or for Germany to break into conflicts for hosting them. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I would immediately do if I were President of the Government. [[Rumors]] Yes, I am loyal to the commitments that you, Mr Rajoy, have been systematically acquiring and failing to fulfil since last summer. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, where are the agreed and committed awareness campaigns? Where is bilateral cooperation with transit or first-rate countries? Where is at least the draft regulation of the 2009 law? Where is the cooperation with the other administrations, Mr Rajoy? And there is no way in which we should get the refugee crisis out of the partisan struggle; of course we should, of course we should. [[Rumors.-Mr. Rajoy makes negative signs]] That's what you said, Mr Rajoy; that's what you told me in a letter, of course. I read the letters you send me, I don't know you. Look, respect for human rights is above any ideology, of course, but one thing is not to use refugees as a political weapon and another very different to abandon them to their fate or let their Government remain installed in that eternal whirlpool of which, if all goes well, we will soon awaken you. You have not been loyal to the agreements reached as a country in the field of refugees; you have not been loyal. The short list of 18 names of people welcomed is the proof of cotton, it is the proof more than enough to prove their non-compliance. In passing, I also ask you, Mr Rajoy, about the concrete commitments that your Government offered at last week's high-level meeting in Geneva sponsored by the United Nations. How many humanitarian visas have you offered, Mr Rajoy? How many scholarships for students? How many job mobilitys? How many family reunions? How many private sponsors have negotiated with Spanish companies? How many medical evacuations have we committed? Zero, Mr. Rajoy; zero again. This is despite the parliamentary agreement which requires your Government to give concrete expression to these and other offers at its meeting on the 30th. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen, if I am President of the Government I will turn Spain - as other European states are already - into a host country, yes. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] [[Applauds]] A host country with host legal and administrative political structures, a host reference role and a determined will to promote an effective reception policy in international bodies and in the European Union. That will not be possible to make a pen in a few weeks, what can be done in a few weeks is to provide solutions for the emergencies of the present, specifically with Syrians displaced by their civil conflict. That is why, first of all, we must defend a loyal and not purely formal observance of all international legality in the area of asylum and refuge. We must defend a genuine and complete common European asylum and asylum policy that includes the review of the Dublin system. It seems to me to be very good news what we have heard today in the media, which is the European Commission's proposal to set up a European asylum agency. In the meantime, we must show solidarity with the countries of the European Union that are places of arrival, transit or destination of refugee flows. First, by fulfilling our relocation obligations and, secondly, by assessing the expansion of the number of refugees to be accommodated in line with Acnur's requests. Greece does not need reproach or threats, Mr Rajoy, it needs the assistance of its partners. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, we must show solidarity with the neighbouring countries of Syria, which are hosting an excessive number of refugees with limited means, through a medium-term resettlement policy. Fourthly, we must maintain frank and loyal relations with Turkey in the area of refugees and human rights, recognizing their efforts in the former and denouncing their shortcomings in the latter. Fifthly, we should give preference in relocations and resettlements to individuals or families at risk as unaccompanied minors, disabled patients or single mothers with children. Sixthly, we must explore all humanitarian avenues for the arrival of people in need of protection, from humanitarian visas issued by our legations to family reunifications, through scholarships for students, job adaptations or private sponsorships. Seventhly, we need to agree on relocation and resettlement policies with the autonomous communities and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. What do you expect, Mr. Rajoy? We have to distribute the responsibilities assumed and the European funds proportionally for these purposes. Eighth, we need to consult the general policy of shelter with the relevant United Nations agencies and specialized NGOs, activating a specific inter-ministerial commission. Ninthly, we must immediately carry out an awareness campaign which reinforces the solidarity shown by the Spanish in the surveys and which cuts down any attempt at criminalisation and xenophobia. And lastly and tenthly, we must cooperate in all possible ways in the efforts of the international community for a ceasefire in Syria and for a medium- and long-term solution to the conflict that is at the root of the current refugee crisis. Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen of the Government in office, this would be what my Government would do in contrast to what it has done to it: to reel, to make excuses and to create prejudices, to spread rumours, to disregard its obligations, to ignore the request of the autonomous communities and of the municipalities, to forget about awareness, not to develop the law and to hide behind the folds of Brussels without showing any opinion or proposal of its own, always to tow the events or movements of others. Look, Mr Rajoy, for inaction or for breach of your commitments to you as President of the Spanish Government, you no longer belong to the heart of the decisions of the European Union. [[Protests.- Rumors.-Applause.]] That's right, that's right. That is why I say to your ladies and gentlemen that this is also another reason to put an end to your four years of government, Mr Rajoy. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u5	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. For the Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Iglesias has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, thank you very much for coming and thank you very much for quoting Ben Bella, a hero of the Algerian liberation war. The next time we meet I'm going to give you the land convicts, Frantz Fanon, with the permission, yes, of your Interior Minister, who may be concerned if you carry out subversive readings and, perhaps, ask some police commissioner to investigate you if you read Frantz Fanon or Ben Bella. The problem is that - you will agree with me, Mr President-in-Office - after the agreement that you have reached in Europe, quoting Ben Bella in the parliamentary seat may not be the right thing to do, because you may not say that you have some nerve quoting Ben Bella after the agreement that you have reached. I am not going to quote Ben Bella or Frantz Fanon today - I would like to - but Article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which says something very simple: In case of persecution, everyone has the right to seek asylum and enjoy it in other countries. Mr President, in this House, which is the seat of popular sovereignty, we agreed on a declaration setting out the position of our country, the position of Spain, at the European Council meeting on 17 and 18 March. That statement said - I quote it textually -: We ask that the agreements with Turkey contain guarantees of compliance with international law and respect for human rights. Such legislation requires that there is certainty that the principle of non-refoulement is respected. That persons may apply for refugee status and, if they are refugees, receive protection under the Geneva Convention or with equivalent guarantees under domestic law, including access to economic and social rights guaranteed in the Convention. With all due respect, I don't know what part of the statement you didn't understand. You said here in this rostrum a moment ago: With this mandate I travelled to Brussels. Well, it looks like it wasn't a warrant. Finally, in the Council, the governments of the 28 Member States of the European Union unanimously approve an agreement with Turkey, which is clearly a disgrace. The agreement continues to violate Europe's obligations under international human rights law. The agreement involves permanently burying the right of asylum in Europe and turning your back on thousands of people who, you know what they're running from, gentlemen of the People's Party? They run away from terrorism and bombs. Terrorism and bombs of the same intensity, with the same moral value, as those who suffered Paris or those who suffered Brussels. These people are no less valuable than the Europeans, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] An attempt has been made to sell this agreement as a set of temporary and extraordinary measures to preserve public order. However, talking about public order - a term that pleases our Minister of the Interior, who besides praying to the Virgin and talking on the phone could read Ben Bella and Frantz Fanon, who would not harm him - imposes establishing the use of force and understanding that human lives are the object of mercantilization, and this is not talking by talking. [[The Minister for Finance and Public Administrations in office pronounces words that are not perceived]] [[Rumors]] You have put a price on human lives: 3 billion euros to Turkey. That is what the human lives of many Europeans are worth to you. [[Applauds]] The current Government of Spain has unravelled the extremely clear mandate given by this Parliament. Mr Rajoy, you have failed to respect the sovereignty of our people by voting in favour of an agreement that is clearly contrary to what this House has decided. This agreement does not include the minimum guarantees required in the institutional declaration unanimously adopted by the Joint Commission for the European Union here in Parliament on 16 March. I'll remind you of them, in case you've forgotten them. This Parliament has agreed to oppose in a clear manner any agreement with Turkey that would allow for collective expulsions. These expulsions are prohibited by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and by Protocol 4 to the European Convention on Human Rights. This House, Mr Rajoy, demanded that the case-by-case study of each refugee be guaranteed. I would like you to explain to us - and this is a question for you to add to the annotations you are making - how the case of each refugee will be studied individually in just two or three days as the agreement raises with sufficient guarantees. Mr Rajoy, how are you going to comply with this procedure with the European directive and international human rights law? I wonder how it is possible to comply with the right to a lawyer and an interpreter, with the right to appeal the decision of the State with suspensive effects, with the right to access human rights organizations that are specialized agencies and that it is not the migrant agents who make the final decision on the case of each person. How is this possible in two or three days, Mr Rajoy, as you have agreed in Brussels? The impression I have, Mr Rajoy, is that you have gone to Europe to export the worst image of the brand Spain, that model of hot returns that has been shameful and that has placed our country in the shameful position of having to be systematically denounced by human rights organisations. It makes me proud to be Spanish our public health and education professionals, but it makes me feel ashamed of the barbarities that have been made on our borders with human beings who should have the same rights as the Spanish. It is a shame that our country exports hot returns to Europe, Mr Mariano Rajoy. [[Applauds]] I would remind you, Mr President-in-Office, that the statement setting out Spain's position said that in the current circumstances Turkey - and I must say very clearly - is not a safe country. The declaration required that Turkey reform its legislation to respect international human rights and asylum law. Can you explain, Mr Rajoy, what Turkey has committed to? Has Turkey changed its legislation within three days of the agreement becoming effective? Can you explain to us how it is possible that the countries of the European Union, which took more than six months to reach an agreement on the distribution of refugees, took only two days to reach an agreement with Turkey in exchange for EUR 3 billion? Let us tell the truth: Turkey is not a safe country and the European Union is only trying to turn Turkey into a border police force and Mr Erdogan into a sentry. That is what you agreed at the European Council, to turn Mr Erdogan into a sentry trying to represent the interests and obligations that Europe itself should have with refugees. Turkey has been systematically denounced by human rights organizations and international bodies as unsuspecting of radicalism, such as Amnesty International or Acnur, for returning Syrian or Iraqi people to their countries of origin, violating the principle of non-refoulement, exactly what this House said could not be allowed. There is no express guarantee in the agreement that Turkey will respect that principle. That clause was in the first drafts of the agreement. Can you explain, Mr. Rajoy, why that clause has disappeared? Turkey has been convicted by the European Court of Human Rights in more than 93 per cent of the cases in which it has been denounced and, at present, on the Turkish border there are some 200,000 displaced persons residing in concentration camps under appalling conditions: without drinking water or sanitation, with a risk of kidnapping and without the possibility of registering for fear of being returned to Syria. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address all of you, but especially Mr Sánchez. In Spain, a government committed to the right of asylum and human rights is needed and - I am telling you humbly - this may not be possible when agreements are reached with those who wanted to deny the health card to people who were only fleeing poverty, Mr Sánchez. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Perhaps, Mr Sánchez, in that agreement with more than 200 proposals you could have had the opportunity to say something about the right of asylum, but it seems that Mr Girauta says that that agreement cannot be touched by a coma because you rise from the table. Well, I say to you: with intolerant people who are unable to recognize human rights, it is very difficult to make a progressive government, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] It is urgent to open up legal and secure channels of entry to our country and to the European Union; it is urgent to establish the possibility of applying for asylum in embassies and consulates from third countries. We all saw - don't laugh, Mr Floriano - the image of a drowned child on the beach. The image of this child is a consequence of the European policy that did not allow his family to apply for asylum in embassies or consulates of the European Union because of the Dublin III Protocol. What is needed is for our country to stop crying crocodile tears and to demand in the European Union that human rights be respected and that international legislation on the right to asylum be respected. [[Applauds]] We need to reform our asylum system and make a greater commitment to the reception of refugees. Currently the level of refugee status concessions is very low and there are cases that remain in the drawers waiting to be denied. That is something intolerable in a rule of law. It is essential to improve reception programmes and ensure that all refugees have all rights, and everyone is, Mr Rivera: health, education, decent and adequate housing. Let me conclude with a reflection by El Roto: The moral height of the countries is inversely proportional to the height of their fences. I hope that we will soon have a government in Spain, Mr Sánchez, that is up to human rights. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u7	Thank you, Mr. Churches. Mr. Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, President of the House, Mr Mariano Rajoy, President-in-Office, I have listened carefully to your speech and I think you have made it very clear to me what the problem is. You said that the agreements made in connection with the refugee crisis - those agreements with Turkey within the European Union - had the objective of deterring them from coming by unsafe routes, deterring them from coming, not allowing there to be mafia and protecting the physical integrity of these people. With this approach, he is not aware that the most atrocious wars in the Mediterranean have been going on in recent years, that at present 40% of the population in Syria, according to the UN, needs basic humanitarian aid, that at present it is not a question of deterring, it is a question of helping. It is not a question of managing rights as if they were a problem to bring to other countries, but of treating them as a guarantee that Europe must fulfil. We treat them as a problem, as if they were numbers, and we could evoke images, but they're not images, they're not those terrible images we see on television. They're people. Forty per cent of those refugees currently in Greece are boys and girls, they are people who have as many rights, not one more or one less, as all those present in this House, and they are protected by those rights contained in international law and they appear to be protected in those rights by the European Union. I mean it seemed because it's obvious that it's not. There's a civil war, a terrible war, a war that we're not strangers to either. Many times hell is us, not the others. This country should remember as no one, absolutely as no one, what a terrible war means, and it should remember as no one, absolutely as no one, what it means to fulfil the rights of refugees to give a better life to those who are being denied every day. To say that we are going to ensure that they do not come by difficult routes is like thinking that an office can be set up in the middle of Syria to accommodate refugees. This doesn't work that way. They're running away, and in a flight no one takes safe routes. We are, according to Acnur, in the worst humanitarian crisis since World War II. That was the darkest moment in the history of Europe, of that proud Europe, that Europe which seeks to explain to the world its superior values and which had Auschwitz within it, that Europe which is proud and intends to show the world as a great hope, but which also had concentration camps. From that Europe of that moment, from that humanitarian crisis that according to Acnur looks like the present, from the ashes of that Europe, from the victory against fascism, social and democratic Europe was born. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights was also born from that victory, and Europe was born as a dream, as a hope. This Europe that was born as a dream and as a hope of democracy and social rights was not the strong Europe, hostile to our Mediterranean brothers, it was not the Europe that trades with rights, because here we can show what we want. We can say that the rights of refugees will be guaranteed, that attention will be individual, but we all know that this treaty is pure euphemism. We all know that we are talking about mass deportations, we all know that we are talking here today, while our brothers and sisters are being deported to Turkey, about human rights violations. The refugee crisis is not just a refugee crisis, it is our crisis, it is the crisis in Europe, it is the crisis of a dream, of hope, of a model. In that Europe, what has the Government done in office? What has Spain done? Not to be anything else that complicit in that situation. You said, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, that the commitment to receive those 16,000 or 17,000 refugees was being fulfilled with an exasperating, so exasperating slowness that we only have 18 of those 16,000 or 17,000, so exasperating that at this rate - it is said soon, I believe that by then there will be no more investment debates - you will be fulfilling your commitments by the year 2152. That is the same as saying that they are not fulfilling any of their commitments. Nor do we know, for not knowing, what you have done with the 256 million received as asylum aid from the European Union, and neither in the European Union do you know at this time what you are using. [[FAMILY]] We ask you directly, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. What are these 256 million currently being used for? We are living - let us not deceive ourselves about this - in a pure debate of euphemisms. What we are experiencing is a reality, which is the systematic violation of human rights. We are living - let us not deceive ourselves - not just a refugee crisis; we are living the crisis in Europe. But there is hope in that Europe too, there is opportunity, there are also people, institutions, municipalities and governments who react. In that Europe we see how the cities - Barcelona and Athens - can establish an agreement to host refugees. In that Europe we were able to see yesterday how in the European Commission Rome, Paris, Athens, Amsterdam and Helsinki they met to say: enough of these policies; to say: we can accept refugees; to say: we do have memory, we know what the fulfilment of human rights is. I'm done. We have no confidence in your Government, indeed, we have no confidence in the policies that you have followed in recent years and we hope that you will not be able to continue with them in the future, but we believe that this crisis is going beyond all this, and we ask you only one thing: unlock funds, secure roads, do not deny those municipalities and institutions that can receive refugees. Let us finally comply with human rights, let us give our brothers and sisters our hand because, by giving our hands to our brothers and sisters, we are actually giving it to ourselves, to our past as a country and to our possibility of future as a country and as a European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u9	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u10	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens who are watching us in this debate, good morning to all. Mr President-in-Office, welcome to the House, thank you for coming to this debate. The Government is in office but the Legislative Power is in motion and at the separation of powers, although some in this country said that Montesquieu was dead and buried, it is not necessary to make a living lime on him. We simply have to dig Montesquieu up again and make this House control the government in office, that the government normally gives explanations in the House and that we normally become a fully democratic country. So a government in office, Mr Rajoy, has to come and explain. I ask myself one question: can a functioning government have more freedom of action than a real government, rather than a legitimate government, does it not make sense? It has to be more controlled, it has to be in the service of this House, which is indeed working. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, instead of having to go to a constitutional conflict like the one you are provoking, I try for the last time in this rostrum to ask for dialogue to try to unravel the situation and for the government to come to an active control session so that we can carry out our work. I ask you for one last attempt, one last effort, not to have to go to the Constitutional Court, between the Spanish legislature and the Executive in office. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rajoy is right when he says this had never happened. It is true, Mr Rajoy, that a candidate for the Presidency of the Government had never said no to the Head of State. [[Applauds]] We had never been more than three months without government. It is true that all this is new, but as it is new, let us get used to the fact that the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary are different powers, not as has happened in recent years in this country. Therefore, welcome to the separation of powers. It's okay. That is what usually happens in any democratic country. We're also going to be a normal country in that, we're going to get along reasonably well between the Legislature and the Executive, we're going to control ourselves, we're going to give explanations and we're going to serve the Spaniards. On this point, we come today to listen to you, Mr Rajoy, about what happened in that agreement with Europe and Turkey at that European Council with which you have indeed left with a mandate. However, there is another anomaly, Mr Rajoy. You went to a debate on whether or not to leave Europe - in this case - from Britain, and the consequences on the freedoms and rights of Spanish citizens and of the whole of Europe without going through this House. I use this rostrum to tell you, Mr Rajoy, that I do not think it is right that, just as you had a mandate, just as we reached an agreement for the debate in Europe-Turkey, you did not do the same for a debate as important as Britain's membership of the European Union or not. Having said that, since you have spoken about it, I would like to give some brushstrokes before entering into this matter with regard to the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. Mr Rajoy, in our view that agreement to hold that referendum in Britain is not to consolidate a two-speed Europe, which we already have - those who want to be in the euro and those who are not - but to consolidate a three-speed Europe - those we believe in Europe, those who believe a little bit and those who do not believe anything -. It is therefore very bad news for Europe to reach agreements where there are privileges, where there are exemptions, where we do not commit all European countries at least to European citizenship. As you know, Mr Rajoy, European citizenship is a Spanish contribution to the treaties of the European Union, it is a Spanish idea that our governments, whether from the Socialist Party or the People's Party, defended in the treaties of the European Union. Why, therefore, has Spain not been more belligerent in defending that European freedoms cannot back off? It must be said with complete normality to Britain that if they do not want to belong to the European Union they have all the right of the world to exercise their sovereignty, but that we will not grant privileges or exemptions or menus to the letter because Europe can only take steps forward. He can't keep taking steps back. We do not agree with that formula. We would have liked to have discussed this before that European Council, but in any case, I use this rostrum to make clear the European position of Citizens. We want to live together, yes, we want Europe to grow, but we do not want to reverse European freedoms. We do not want an à la carte menu to belong a little bit or nothing to the European Union; because there are also Spanish workers and citizens living in Britain; because it also affects, in short, the freedoms of many of our fellow citizens. Spain therefore also has something to say in European policy, not just a passive agent who does not open his mouth, who does not bother, who does not say anything, but an active agent in European construction, as we have been for many years - in the 1980s and 1990s - and as we have to go back to being an active agent, not just passive, but active in that European construction policy. I wanted to make that position clear before I entered into this matter with regard to that agreement between the European Union and Turkey. I'm going to go over the page and get into the second issue that you've explained to us. For citizens the European Union is not just a common currency - which also - for citizens the European Union is not only a common market - which also - for citizens the European Union, Mr Rajoy, is an area of freedom, it is also an area of human rights, it is a common political project, not only economic. Because a common political project with a solid economy is where we want our children and grandchildren to live. Therefore, in that space is where we want to live. That is why, Mr Rajoy, Citizens are concerned about the steps we are taking in Europe. When you look at the solution, the patch, better said - because it is not a solution - of the Europe-Turkey agreement - when you listened to it from the seat I was talking about it with my colleagues - it makes very little sense to what the European Union is. You said: we have reached an agreement - I am not saying that it is your sole responsibility, I am referring to the whole European Council - so that Europe, as it cannot guarantee human rights - is strong to assume that Europe cannot guarantee human rights - externalizes them to Turkey. By the way, small country to outsource human rights! Do we Europeans have to assume that we are an economic giant and a political dwarf? Do we have to assume the Europeans that we have made ourselves small in international matters and in the field of human rights? Is that the Europe we want for our children, Mr Rajoy? Is that the approach, the patch, the wrong solution to which we have come? Well, we don't share it. We believe that Europe, despite this patch, has to assume that living in the place where we live also means being in solidarity with those who, I insist, do not come for pleasure, come fleeing a war, flee from terrorism, flee from bombs. Therefore, we cannot remain alien to that reality. Human rights are not outsourced, Mr Rajoy, they are guaranteed. Europe is basically a place of human rights, that is the big difference between the Europe we want and the Europe that some would like, in which we simply talk about the common currency, or that others who do not like the common currency either just want us to talk about it. For Europe is a common currency and an economy, but also human rights, policies, rights and freedoms for citizens. Mr Rajoy, you said that we have to give a joint answer. I totally agree with that, but because it's joint, it doesn't have to be cowardly. We want a joint but courageous response, a joint response in line with human rights and European values. It is not worth simply, because it is joint, lowering the bar and making Europeans ashamed of what we are not able to solve. It is very well and bank unification is necessary. Some of us believe that European economic debt must be unified, we are convinced of a common and harmonised fiscal policy. Some of us deeply believe that Europe is a place of economic prosperity and freedoms, but how can we build all that if we are unable to look in the mirror, if we are unable to recognize ourselves when we see what happens at the borders, if we are unable to recognize ourselves when we see the human drama that so many families suffer in nearby places or even within our borders. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, in what remains of the Government in office, I ask you for more courage, more courage, more commitment to human rights in Europe and not just to talk about quotas. It is good to talk about quotas because it is necessary, we have to assume how many refugees there can be in Spain, we have to organize it, we have to guarantee their rights, but I also tell you one thing with regard to quotas, Mr Rajoy: it is not worth taking on quotas and then not carrying them out. We cannot have a theoretical commitment of 16,000 refugees in Spain - we are 47 million Spaniards, I say 16,000 refugees in Spain are perfectly manageable - and there really are 20 refugees in Spain. Can we just stay in a passive attitude? I am a supporter of solidarity in Europe and citizens defend economic solidarity. There are cohesion funds that have helped Spain for many years. There is a European policy that has helped us develop our economy in Spain, but solidarity is not just about asking the European Union for cohesion funds. Solidarity is to tell the other countries in Europe, which are receiving millions of refugees, that Spain is here, that Spain is participating, that what we have to do to assume those refugee quotas. Therefore, it is not worth the passivity, it is not worth fixing a quota and then not acting. We must be brave, we must have courage and, above all, we must be consistent with the values of solidarity that Spain has also received and that Spain has been so well served by the solidarity of the rest of the European countries. Therefore, the best way to help the extreme right not to grow in Germany or in other countries is to collaborate so that it is spread across Europe. [[Applauds]] The Spaniards, who are a country that has suffered a civil war, that we are not talking about anything else, that thousands and thousands of Spanish families know what it is to ask for asylum, to go to exile, that they know what it is to leave a country because of repression or fear, millions of Spaniards know what a civil war has been, we, no longer just because of legal issues, but because of historical issues, can we remain alien to Geneva's commitments, to human rights commitments or to political asylum? Is Spain a country that can be allowed to say: this does not go with me, when we are a country that has recently had to suffer exile or ask for political asylum? I believe that neither for legal reasons nor for political reasons nor for historical reasons Spain can be a passive actor in the refugee crisis. The new Government of Spain certainly has to commit itself to the rest of Europe to fulfil, at least, what we have agreed and, from there, to make itself available, because I say one thing, Mr Rajoy: if we do not organise this arrival of refugees, at the end of the day what happens? That the municipalities, the autonomy and each on their own want to exercise this function without having competence for it. Therefore, would it not be better for the Spanish Government to organize, structure, the arrival of refugees, to comply with those quotas and to give rights to all those families fleeing from terror? Wouldn't it be better to organize it than to remain passively seeing what is happening on our borders? We think so. Europe has basically been brave, Europe has basically been brave and Europe has basically been freedom, security and human rights. It has to remain so. Therefore, we, Mr Rajoy, will support this government in office to defend that, but above all I ask that we be a little more courageous politically when we go to a European Council, which is nothing, that we are Europe's fourth largest economy, that we are an important country in Europe and that the political and economic weight that Spain has in Europe must also be believed, as we have had for many years. Mr Rajoy, I would also ask you for responsibility, because here in this rostrum - and then we will come in - I have heard demagogy, but in this rostrum and in other rostrums we have also seen irresponsibility. His spokesman, Mr Maroto, said that among the refugees there are many jihadists who can put a bomb in our cities. [[Shows a leaflet reading these words published in the Huffington Post]] This was said by a spokesman for your party, Mr Rajoy. I am convinced that you do not share this, because a president who knows what it is to manage a country cannot affirm this that he has affirmed his spokesman, cannot, because you are mixing terrorism with those who flee from terrorism and bombs, and this is intolerable. I ask you, Mr Rajoy, not to do this irresponsible policy because, in the end, when refugees have to arrive in Spain - only 20 have arrived - when those 16,000 arrive, there will be people who hear some irresponsible politicians say these things will think that a person coming from Syria and fleeing a war is a jihadist. But, look, it's the opposite, it's that they run away from jihad, it's that they run away from ISIS, it's that they run away from terrorism. It is therefore absolutely irresponsible, Mr Rajoy, that spokesmen of your party should do this. [[Applauds]] So if you want joint responses, let's not get out of the script, let's make a responsible joint response so that citizens understand what a refugee is, what is political asylum and, therefore, the rights that these people have simply because they are people and that Spain recognizes those rights. Speaking also of irresponsibility, Mr. Iglesias mixed, as always, different things. Mr Maroto mixes terrorism with political asylum and you mix Aliens Law with political asylum. That is to have no idea how the legal system works. [[Applauds]] The Aliens Act is one thing and political asylum is another. Take a look at those legal notes. I don't know where you studied law; I studied in Barcelona and Helsinki, you taught with that foundation of Venezuela; it's different the concept of human rights. [[applause.-Mr. Iglesias Turrion pronounces words that are not perceived]] Your concept of human rights where you taught classes and your colleagues and mine are different, I recognize that. Mine is that of the public and concerted universities of Spain and its is that of Venezuela and Iran. [[Rumors]] It's different, it's a different shade. [[Applauds]] Let's see if it's true that you do that defense of human rights all over the world, not where you have people financing your party. [[Applauds]] So I invite you to vote in favour of a joint proposal that the groups in this House will make to defend human rights in Venezuela. I invite you to join in defending that proposal. [[Applauds]] And I also invite you to read the government agreement, because it is because so many press conferences and in the end you do not read the agreement. The agreement talks about universal rights for Spanish public health, even if you don't like it. I know you'd like me not to say it, but it does. [[Mrs. Bescansa Hernández utters words that are not perceived.- Rumors]] So I invite you, Mr. Iglesias, to read the agreements; do less press briefings and read the government agreements more. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] So between laboratory demagogy and passivity and cowardice, let's see if we find a common sense space, a space of commitment and action, a space of European values so that we can have a Spanish government that is committed to that political asylum, that is committed to responsibility, that is not committed to demagogy or cowardice. Europe has not been built with fear, it has been built as a dream. Europe has been built with the commitment of many European parents, of many level and responsible politicians and with a sense of state who at one time knew how to fight against demagogy and against populism and said: Europe is still moving forward. Now is the time to show whether we are going further to our fears or whether we continue to fight for our dream, which is the United States of Europe. We will of course continue to fight for that dream despite the fears, despite the obstacles on the wheels to the European Union, despite those who look at local politics and not at global politics. We cannot allow Spain to be simply a domestic agent, a local agent, without a European vision, without a world vision. By the way, Mr Rajoy, I would also have liked you to be at that convention, at that meeting to which the President of the United States, Mr Obama - which I say is not just anyone - invited us, precisely to continue to collaborate in the fight against nuclear policy, in the fight against terrorism as well. Spain and our President-in-Office I think they should have stood by the world leaders that day defending our policy. Because our agents, our intelligence services, our police, work side by side - and I know it; and you know it perfectly well - precisely in that field. Why not attend such a summit? I don't understand. I think it is much better to be with the allies in the fight against terrorism, than to say: pass word and I do not go. It is not an electoral debate, Mr Rajoy, it was a convention, it was a summit among political leaders. I know that you did not want to go to the debates, but it was a summit, nothing happens, you can decide not to go to an electoral debate, but in my opinion, if you represent the Spaniards even if they are in office, you should represent us at this kind of international summits where I sincerely believe that in addition to what is already being done, that I know that is being done and I know that a lot is being done to work against terrorism, fortunately, I would also like Spain to be represented at the highest level by our President in office. I'm finishing up, President. As I was telling you, Europe has always been built with two steps forward and one step backwards; but one step backwards, not four. The Europe we know has always been built by taking steps forward, making mistakes and getting up again. It has passed with European construction and has passed and will continue to do so. I insist, a step back can be taken, it passed with the European constitution, we took a step back, but we have to get up and move forward again. If we continue with the departures of European countries - by the way, if conditions are granted to Britain, why not tomorrow, if Le Pen wins, to France, right? They're also going to ask us for different conditions, aren't they?-, if we open Pandora's box they'll keep trying to keep Europe from being built. Therefore, if we step back in European construction, if we step back in our freedoms, if we step back in European solidarity and if we are economic giants but political dwarfs, Europe will not be the United States of Europe, it will be something else. So we bet on those United States and that is why I want to end this intervention by quoting one of the parents of the European Union, one of those who did believe, that they were brave, that they did fight against demagogy, that they did fight against the local or domestic vision of their country. Mr Schuman, to whom you will know perfectly, said in 1947, referring, in terms of comparison, to a journey that had arrived in the Pacific, that those men left knowing that they could not back off, that whatever the difficulties they were could only do one thing: keep moving forward. And he went on: We too will move towards our goals: the United States of Europe on a journey without return. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u11	For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Surra has the floor. [[Mr Errejón Galvan asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u12	Yes, Mr. Errejón? Wait a minute, Mrs. Surra.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u13	I am not very in favour of repeating the round of allusions that we had in the investiture debate, but we have had a direct charge involving a crime and that means that we are entitled to a round of allusions, which is going to be extraordinarily brief. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative signs]] It is not to our liking, but it is also not to our liking to be accused free of charge.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u14	What's the allusion?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u15	The allusion has to do with a crime of financing by a foreign country and I want to remember... [[Rumors and protests.-Mr.Rivera Díaz: No, no.-Mrs.Montero Gil: Yes, he did; listen, you've lost your pot a lot.]] Yeah, yeah. Mr President, I would just like to recall that the Supreme Court on two occasions, in January 2015 and May 2015, has filed complaints for the same, and in February 2016 the Supreme Court Prosecutor's Office recalled that there was no case. [[Rumors.-Mr. Rivera Díaz utters words that are not perceived]] Therefore, if someone needs a fourth clarification, what they have to do is be brave, go to court and receive the same answer for the fourth time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. Mrs. Surra.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u17	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rajoy, you don't know what you're talking about. I was a refugee. [[Show me a card.-Applause.]] This is not a disease, it is not contagious; this is an administrative situation. [[The lady]] We are people, men, women and children, who at one time of life have an administrative situation and at another time. Today my administrative situation is to be a member of Catalonia. I am Catalan and a deputy of Catalonia and today I am building, together with many others, a free, democratic and peaceful republic. [[Applauds]] I was a refugee in Europe coming from a non-European country. When Uruguay - my country of birth - suffered a military coup d'état, I sought refuge in the Chile of Salvador Allende, the only place of the moment in South America that did not suffer a military dictatorship, but sadly this period lasted little, and after the coup d'état of Pinochet I had to leave Chile with a pregnancy of several months to Panama, in transit; first in Belgium, where my son was born, and then in France, where I settled. I know very well what it is to move from one country to another without knowing where we were going to find a safe and peaceful place. Mr Rajoy, it may seem to someone that my condemnation of your policy towards the refugees who live ill today in Greece and in the other countries where they are overcrowded, but believe me that I do so not only because of ideological convictions, but because I have lived it and I know very well what these men, women and children are going through today who managed to survive the crossing of the Mare Nostrum, which is the Mediterranean; a true Mare Mortum, considered today the largest mass grave in the world. Of all that I have experienced, the only thing I would never want to repeat is to be a refugee again, and the current situation is 10,000 times worse than the one I have lived. And I'm horrified by his lack of memory. Do you know how I knew the meaning of political refugee in my home country, Mr. Rajoy? Through the example of the Republican refugees who fled from Francoism and who arrived for tens of thousands on the American continent and, among them, some writers and poets of universal value; many Spaniards have them in mind, but few know that some of their most memorable works created them in exile, something that should be taught in schools, Mr Rajoy. That's called historical memory. I know that you, in the matter of historical memory, suffer from temporary amnesia. Let us hope that the next Government will not suffer from the same affection and act with more humanity and coherence in the history of its grandparents. Yes, I know that some of the grandparents here today were from the side that won the Spanish civil war, but that wouldn't have to be an excuse not to act in accordance with human rights - how much memory! With regard to the agreement reached between the Heads of State and Government of the European Union and Turkey on 17 March, as a shameful response to the arrival of the displaced population on the coast of Europe, the majority fleeing from the civil war in Syria, I would like to make a number of considerations: firstly, I suppose I should congratulate you and Mr Erdogan because this agreement benefits their unfortunate inhumane policies, consolidates the model of hot returns that Spain launched in Melilla, while facilitating the entry into the European Union of Turkey, where the examples of the decline of democratic values follow. But, instead of congratulating you, I must give the European Union my condolences for this unfortunate agreement. The truth is, we had to be warned. His Government was constantly repeating that the Spanish model should be the guide to follow on the border with Turkey. This means involving countries of origin and transit with a policy that conditions development aid funds for the readmission of immigrants and police cooperation. Since 2006, Spain has signed agreements with various African countries in this regard, but the main beneficiary of relocation of the southern border of Spain has been Morocco, through its multiple agreements with Spain and the European Union for the Moroccan authorities to increase the presence of police forces and the army in the fences of Ceuta and Melilla. In return they had to hide their eyes from human rights violations on the Moroccan side of the border or endorse the illegal occupation of Western Sahara by a country that allows itself to expel UN delegates - no problem, right, Mr Rajoy?-. And this outsourcing of border control meant turning migration control into a currency of exchange, just what the European Union has offered Turkey today. But, don't be fooled, recognizing that Spain has been an advanced student in the outsourcing of border control is not a compliment, it is a shame. You, Mr. Rajoy, have exported the worst of your government legacy. The images of Turkish police indiscriminately hitting groups of people trying to enter European territory, the construction of fences at the borders of Bulgaria, Hungary, Austria and Macedonia, or the attempt to legalize hot returns are the bread of every day for which we follow the situation of Ceuta and Melilla. The refugee crisis highlights what many Spanish NGOs and political organisations have been denouncing for a long time: that the southern Spanish border has functioned as a laboratory of migration control policies and practices that are now exported to the eastern, external and internal borders of the European Union, and the European Union-Turkey agreement is its last and saddest expression. But instead of acknowledging that this was their intention, on 16 March the PP Members deceived us in the European Commission and, being cornered by a majority of parliamentary groups that rejected the principle of agreement between the European Union and Turkey on 7 March on refugees, the People's Party agreed to vote and adopt a resolution explicitly calling for guarantees of human rights and political consensus before supporting any agreement on this matter. But your Government ignored and you, Mr Rajoy, let yourself be led by your natural drive for unilateral decisions and took the opportunity to legalize indignity. With the agreement reached, the European Union replaces summary expulsions with equally rapid returns, which should ensure an individualised study of each case that has already been shown to be ineffective and unfair. To that end, the European Union also needed to declare Turkey as what it is not: a safe country, with the aim of convincing refugees not to come. And I wonder, Mr Rajoy, who in this Parliament regards the President of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, as a Democrat and his country as a safe country. I don't, and many Turkish citizens, Kurds, Yazidists, even less. According to the NGO Human Rights Watch, there are two basic conditions for considering a State as safe: it must offer effective protection and there must be no risk of return to its country of origin or to another country where its life and freedom are at risk. On the contrary, the Turkish authorities have carried out returns of Syrian refugees to war zones as documented by Amnesty International, such as arrests of persons from Syria in the western provinces of Turkey, a common point of departure to try to reach the Greek islands, to be transferred to detention centres, isolated from abroad, without permission to communicate with their relatives and lawyers, where they are forced to sign a voluntary return declaration to Syria and are transferred to the border crossing whose side is under the control of Islamist groups. The lack of freedom of the press is another constant in Turkey. A month ago, on 5 March, Turkish police raided the Zaman newspaper, the most read in the country, to take control of a critical newspaper with the Government following the issuance of a court order requested by the Executive. Once those responsible for the newspaper were expelled, Zaman's news line changed and became in favor of Erdogan's interests. According to Freedom House, the Turkish press has not been free since 2013, and according to Amnesty International, respect for freedom of expression has been further weakened over the past year, opening countless unfair criminal cases under alleged anti-terrorist laws and criminal defamation against political activists, journalists and people who criticized government authorities or politics, in a country where ordinary citizens have appeared in court for comments on social networks; where these same social networks are discreetly shut down by the government at key times, producing blackouts when cases that harm Erdogan's executive emerge. How are we going to ensure compliance with the obligations to refugees if we cannot even have information on how human rights are guaranteed to the Turkish population? I do not want to spare the Turkish people's efforts to welcome refugees, as 2.5 million are in that country. What is embarrassing to me is that, in order not to comply with their own laws and treaties, the States of the European Union in general and in Spain in particular interpret downwards the requirements of protection for refugees to justify Turkey assuming the reception of asylum seekers who are not assuming Greece or the rest of the European countries. Finally, I would ask you to listen to the present Parliament and not to be deaf, because there is no worse deaf person than the one who does not want to hear. Listen to the cry of the citizens of the peoples of all Spain who cannot understand their immobilism on such a sensitive, humane and easy-to-solve issue. On all sides there are humanitarian and solidarity initiatives that want to contribute to the reception of refugees; support yourself in the Spanish people, in the Catalan people, in the Galician people, in the Basque people; support yourself in the municipal governments, in the local funds for cooperation, in the autonomous communities, in the parliaments and in the NGOs. What prevents you from sending a ship to Greece and bringing some thousands of refugees in a dignified way? Or, as Amnesty International is asking - I quote textually - to relocate 15,888 refugees who are currently in Europe by putting in place all the mechanisms at their disposal to urgently accept asylum seekers from Greece. It is a matter of political will. Catalonia is already ready to receive 4,500 people. Nothing prevents you from doing so, except your immobility. Mr Rajoy, there is little left for your presidency. Terminate it with a democratic gesture of dignity, obeying this Parliament which represents the majority because, whether you like it or not, it was elected by the Spanish. The parliamentary groups, except the People's Group, committed themselves to the recommendations of Intermon Oxfam on 16 March in relation to the defence and protection of the rights of refugees in the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. You are still in time to correct the terrible mistake you made on 17 March and to fulfil your obligations and your own word when you committed to hosting 16,000 refugees in 2015. I would like to end by recalling that the Spaniards of the 36th, the Uruguayans of the 72nd, the Bosnians of the 93rd and the Syrians of 2015 did not know that they would be refugees one day. Let's not forget, we can all be refugees someday. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Surra. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Homs. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u19	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add my thanks for your attendance today. I think it is necessary not only to go into the details of the content of the European Councils and of the contributions of your Government, but I also believe that this is an opportunity to analyse your European policy. With regard to the conclusions of the European Council meeting on 17 and 18 March, and in particular on the declaration-agreement reached between the European Union and Turkey on the dramatic issue of displaced refugees in Greece, the first thing I would like to say on behalf of my group is that this agreement generates more than doubt. Neither do we share it in ethical terms, nor do we consider it legally respectful of international legality, nor do we see it as any practical or effective sense for the purposes it is said to serve. According to Acnur's information, it is easy to conclude that what is happening on the ground does not correspond to what has been agreed or, even less, has obtained the necessary response that was expected from the governments of the European States. I would like to point out from the outset that the problem of giving a positive response to this issue is not much less of the European institutions, but mainly of the inability of the various governments of the European States, which have shown more apathy and clumsiness than a vision consistent with the founding values of the European Union itself. The position of our parliamentary group is in solidarity with the agreement reached in this House on 16 March, which was reflected in the institutional declaration of the Joint Commission for the European Union. That statement not only - as has been recalled - with the unanimous support of all political forces but also marked a very clear task for the Government in office for the European Council meeting, and it seems that the result of that meeting is that the Government in office - that is, you - decided to stop being so and took the initiative to reinterpret the mandate in accordance with your own view. Mr Rajoy, ministers, you are a government in office, and this is not an apostille that serves to slip the bundle to give explanations in this Congress. The character in office obliges them with this House, if any, more than ever. It's the opposite of how you present it. It is precisely because they do not have the confidence of this House that they have to act in accordance with the precise instructions we give them, without free interpretation and, if necessary, explaining to the rest of the governments that they have been stripped of their capacity for political initiative, because they are a government in office, as they remind us every day on the Board of Spokesmen. If you take stock and compare the content of the mandate of the above-mentioned institutional declaration agreed in this House with the content of the agreement that you have described to us that you signed between the European Union and Turkey, you will not only be able to find, as you would say colloquially, the famous seven differences, but many more. In the eleven points of the agreement-declaration between the European Union and Turkey, only word games are collected to try not to lose rhetoric. Let's make a concrete review. We pledged that collective expulsions to Turkish territory would not be accepted. We can only see the images that corroborate what everyone at the foot of the cannon tells us. The way in which procedures are carried out and people are led is clear that collective expulsions are being carried out, Mr Rajoy. How can you deny it? In this House we are committed to respecting the principle of non-refoulement and to applying all the requirements of European asylum legislation. Neither are they complied with nor are they followed, and I do not say so, by those responsible for the European asylum agency; it is said and denounced by the NGOs and evidenced by the facts themselves. In this House we also commit ourselves to strengthening control mechanisms on the effective fate of economic aid for refugees. Nor in that we see more than good intentions in the agreement-declaration signed. Finally, in order not to extend further in this area, we also commit ourselves to promoting the establishment of additional routes for the arrival and resettlement of refugees, such as humanitarian visas, family reunification, scholarships, etc. I have not seen any of this in the agreement-declaration that you have signed with Turkey. Mr Rajoy, the issue is very simple in the debate here today. They had a very specific task made by the unanimity of the political forces of this House and you have not fulfilled it. At best, it could be said that you have interpreted it conveniently, but I sincerely believe that you have simply gone from everything and have once again attended the European Council as an extra, as a collaborator of an area of power where you act as guests of stone, without credibility, without authority and without any kind of initiative, and that has its causes, origins and reasons; it is not new. As I told you at the beginning of my speech, your attendance also allows us and forces us to make a more general assessment of your European policy. [[The Lord]] Things don't happen because they do, Mr. President. The example of its action in this matter, in our view, is a further demonstration of its political action, which in this field could be summed up in three ideas: first, a careless and disoriented European policy that has led Spain to be a residual country within the framework of the European Union at the moment; secondly, a worrying and injuring insensitivity to humanitarian disasters, or at least so is undoubtedly perceived by Spanish society; and thirdly, a non-existent vision of Europe as a collective project, such as the great country of reference of all Europeans. These three axes summarise the characteristics of your Government and of your mandate in relation to Europe and, to a large extent, in relation to the foreign policy that you have promoted. It is true that with Aznar the Spanish position began to change in relation to Spain's involvement in European construction and I sincerely believe that Zapatero did not improve it, but you are leaving Spain's position before the European Union under minimums. An interesting article published in March 2013 by the Elcano Foundation, no more or less, where a new European policy for Spain was claimed, said - I quote literally -: Much more must be dared, especially in view of the prospect of the key negotiations to shape Europe after the crisis. It is measured as measured, as seen with the truncated implementation of the banking union or with the not entirely anecdotal question of the exclusion of Spaniards in the positions of responsibility - says this report of the Elcano Foundation - Spain is not today - year 2013, three years ago - well situated to shape the future economic and monetary union or political union, and seems unable to lead almost any development of European foreign policy. I insist, they are not my words, but they are in a report published by the Elcano Foundation, which you must know. Mr Rajoy, as we see it, you've hit all the records in that field. I still remember what he said - in electoral campaign, logically - one day in Catalonia, in lesson plan - something repellent, and I say it with all cordiality -: To be in Europe you have to be great, the little ones don't count at all. Small words, seen with the contrast of the facts that we have on the table. Consider, for example, the distribution of power in the main European institutions and tell me how many Spanish representatives reflect that you count so much. Since they are so big, tell me - although they are not now and I imagine they will not be gone for this reason - De Guindos was not going to be safe president of the Eurogroup, did you not have it agreed with the great European countries? What are you still doing on that blue bench, once in a while at least? Look, he has only managed to place a position, as all European countries do at least, regardless of size, and on top of that it seems - I don't know if it is true - that something has come out of him. In Europe, Mr Rajoy, size has been shown to be unimportant. How can it be that four Vice-Presidents of the Commission are in the hands of people from countries with less than five million inhabitants and instead Spain does not have one or that it has also lost the member that seemed eternal in the European Central Bank, and instead the Portuguese neighbours are? How can this symptomatic loss of influence in the European institutions be? The explanation has its logic, in my view, a very European logic which seems to be not precisely its own. It turns out that what really counts in Europe, Mr Rajoy, is good practice, responsible and committed to doing things right. In short, comply and, of course, do not lie. By the way, the show of deficit targets that you have explained to us over the past few months is embarrassing. How did they lie so much? How dare they say so bluntly that they would fulfill, knowing that they would not? How dare you lower taxes if you do not comply - and you knew it perfectly - with the deficit? And now, what should you think of when you say that the problem is the autonomous communities? Is it thought that in the European Union they are fools, that they believe it? With these credentials, how do you want them to take you seriously? How do you expect them to receive you at a meeting of the European Council? I am not surprised by their poor results, nor am I surprised that they are unable to carry out effectively the mandate that this house has commanded them in relation to the refugee issue. The Elcano Foundation's report, published just three years ago, said: The good news is that if Spain dared to devote more intelligence and political will to the integration process, it has several comparative advantages that would allow it to reposition itself as an influential partner. The bad news is that for the time being there is no clear indication that you want to abandon the low profile and design a proactive strategy for the next few years. If there is anything worse than touching bottom - he continued to say the report - it is not knowing what to do to ascend again. For three years later, exactly three years after the publication of this report, there you are, touching bottom and not knowing what to do to get back up, apart from letting the time pass; in this you are really an expert. In addition to all this political incapacity and lack of good practice, his attitude towards the migration crisis was worrying and, in my view, insensitive to humanitarian disasters, and so - I insist - is perceived by the majority of Spanish society. It's certainly been that way, and that's how I see it. I'm going to give you an example, just one, which seems to me in that demolishing sense. If in Catalonia the Generalitat, the municipalities and the NGOs have organized themselves to articulate a device in order to care for the refugees, why the fuck do you come out with ridiculous competitive interpretations and do not pull your shoulder in the same direction? Why? Why is it so hard? Why don't they just make one gesture, even occasionally in this regard? I conclude my speech, Mr President, by noting in this House that, from our point of view, the common project of Europe is part of the solution and that the outdated institutional archaeology in which you have converted Spain today is certainly part of the problem. Seeing also how small countries thrive within Europe, how they are better incardinated and how, thanks to good practice, European integration can be gained and strengthened at the same time, and seeing also, by the way, how they make costumes on cases such as the well-known Brexit - as you have very well explained to us in your appearance - it is reasonable to tell them that I consider it essential that Catalonia be a State within the European Union. Moreover, I sincerely believe that when we are, we will strengthen our common space, which is Europe, which is the only one that can help us to do things better, particularly in the face of crises such as that of refugees. Finally, do yourself a favor, Mr. Rajoy. Stop being less nation state and bet on greater real European integration. I am sure that this path would improve the lives of millions of people, millions of citizens. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u20	Thank you, Mr. Homs. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, I will talk to you about four issues. I will start with the one that seems to have been spent more time in the House, which is that of the European agreement on immigration, and I will continue with others that have not been treated so much but that for my group are important. It seems to me that this agreement is a mere patch, Mr President. Is he going to fix things? No, no, Are you going to make it look like you're going to fix things? Perhaps at first, because the flow coming from Turkey is going to stop, but you know that the routes are going to deviate if the causes of the problem are not addressed and how to deal with them, and the European Union has not given a single minute to discuss it. Moreover, everyone here goes free; the Belgians, for example, after the attack on their territory, can suddenly make a decision that they have previously refused, and so on. Moreover, the agreement speaks as if the problem were Syria, and it is not. He says that for every Syrian returned to Turkey another will enter the European Union. How? We're not talking about that. The problem of immigration is much more important, it does not only affect Syria. There are also Eritreans with a clear and obvious right of asylum because they are in a country that is as repressive as the North Korean regime, which prohibits meetings of more than five people, for example, and with a military service of more than twenty years. Or there are also Pakistanis, because it seems to us that nothing is happening in Pakistan, but there is an internal civil war in the south, in Balochistan, beyond the whole conflict of Islamist radicalism in the north, and they could also have the right to be refugees. But the terrible thing, the bad thing, and with what we do not agree with, is for Europe to leave politics and decision-making that affect it in Turkish hands. In the hands of a third state it would be bad enough, but in Turkish hands it seems terrible to us. In this regard, we believe that the agreement adopted in the Joint Commission of the European Union between all political parties is not being complied with because it clearly spoke that the agreement should be strictly adhered to international law, and it does not do so. Turkey is not a safe state. I'll give you a few reasons. First, there are fighting within its territory, in the eastern area, right now, which has affected even the civilian population, and second, there are fighting in Syria. I am very concerned about point 9 of the agreement, which no one seems to have given importance. It says literally: The European Union and its Member States will work with Turkey in any joint venture aimed at improving humanitarian conditions within Syria, in particular in certain areas near the border with Turkey, which would allow the local population and refugees to live in safer areas. What is this? Is it giving the buffer, that protection zone that Turkey has been trying to get in northern Syria for quite some time? And do the European states have to approve this? Do we have to approve that Turkish troops are currently attacking the positions of Western allies in northern Syria, such as the Kurdish guerrillas? Because that is what is happening, trying to move forward in this protection zone, in this mattress zone, which is where Syrian refugees are to be sent. What a safety! Right on the war line. Can we approve this? Does Turkey really guarantee the safety of refugees? A country in which there were rumours of a coup d'état yesterday that have been denied, a country in which several media outlets have been shut down by the Government a few weeks ago. And have we given our responsibilities to a State like this? It would not be possible for another State, we should assume it as Europeans. And in exchange for what? It would be enough of this point 9, which seems unacceptable to me - we will see how it develops later - but in exchange for what? In exchange for forgetting - apparently not, but yes - all the conditions necessary to be part of the European Union and give them the OK. Liberalize visas. They say no, but they will have to complete all the Copenhagen points. And it turns out that the Commission has to make a report by the end of April. Does anyone think that the Commission is going to make a report saying that Turkey does not comply with the points? Even if he doesn't do it, he's going to say yes, because, if he doesn't, the refugee agreement would blow up. How can we make these traps for the lonely? How is it possible that we can accept this? And then it's restarting and accelerating the entry process. We cannot trade in principles, values and European integration on these issues. We'll have to face the responsibilities. By the way, we're talking about there's not going to be mass evictions now. I find it hard to believe that, Mr. President, and I tell you why. I too am pleased that the Commission announced yesterday that it would like to see an agency for the right of asylum and that the right of asylum is also a European policy that is not part of the power of the States, I am in favour of it, but in the meantime what do we do? We say to Greece: you continue to do and you will control and take the name of all the people you think you can have asylum, and all those who are seen to have a chance of having asylum, will stay. But if Greece was overflowing two days ago! They say, "No, but let's send them help." If Greece has had to implement it since March 20; if it is already implementing it for weeks! What assurance is there that international legislation is being complied with, that mass expulsions are not taking place, and also in agreement with Turkey? None, Mr. President. Greece was overflowing and will continue to be. And if not all European states are involved directly through a joint body, it will be impossible. By the way, seat limit: 50,000. If there's been so many more! What are we talking about? We do not even know all those who have arrived in Germany, Sweden or other countries because the hotspot system has not worked and there are many people who are rushing through the centre of Europe without papers and without having submitted an asylum application. We do not even know how many there are and now it turns out that we are limiting, and there are already more, even, than those who were at the moment in Greece. This is not a realistic policy. These numbers are not going to be enough if we really want to tackle the refugee problem. The Commission's agreement also fails to provide for safe routes of arrival. Today, even if it is theoretically said that yes, they are not established, and should be from points like Jordan, Lebanon, etc. But for that the European Union has to get involved with an agency. Nothing has been done to protect individuals at risk, unaccompanied minors, women victims of violence... Nothing is said in the agreements. It was requested by the Commission. Control mechanisms. Economic aid is now going to Turkey. It was requested by the Commission. You don't say anything. The autonomous communities and the municipalities were prepared, even meeting at the time with the Spanish Government. Since then, if I've seen you, I don't remember. There have been no more meetings. What has been done? Does the Spanish Government intend to move in this area or is it going to do as other countries did when the problem was on the border in the Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla, which all looked elsewhere from northern Europe? Now, as we have the problem in eastern Europe, it turns out that Spain is going to look elsewhere. Lampedusa will return and flow back to the border of Melilla and Ceuta. You'll see, Mr. President. Therefore, a badly made patch. European principles have been sold, international legislation has not been complied with and we will have to rectify it very soon, as will be seen. Apart from what policy we need to pursue now in the Middle East, a policy from all Western countries, and then Syria will need a Marshall Plan. You're not talking about these things either. Employment, growth and competitiveness. This was also discussed in the European Semester, linked to the stability and growth plan and the reform plan. We already know that you have not fulfilled the deficit any year, but the 2015 has been serious. They have denied the greatest since the first day; they said, yes, yes, we will, even though Europe was telling them that they would never do it. Europe has put Spain at the level of four out of five surveillance, which means an alert. We are under permanent surveillance by the European institutions. One more point than expected, Mr President, despite the fact that the economy, I recognise, has grown by more than 3%, debt interests have fallen by 3.5 billion euros and unemployment benefits have fallen by 4 billion euros. It's complicated to explain why it hasn't been achieved. Blaming the Autonomous Communities? It should be borne in mind that they advanced a tax cut before the elections, that they inflated the income forecasts knowing that they were not going to be those, despite the European warnings. It also takes account of Social Security, which is part of its management as a State; its deficit has been diverted by more than EUR 18 billion, 1.8% of GDP. There is a serious structural problem there, Mr President. The point is that Europe was telling you that it was going to happen and you said that it was not - because it was an election year - so you have lost room for manoeuvre to ask for flexibility in the future. All international institutions are reviewing downward growth, pointing out that the imbalance in private debt is high, that inequality is deep, that growth is going to be very small. Mr President, we must insist - although you will now have less credibility in Europe - that the European austerity policy has failed. Europe has a lot of sin in the situation. One reads the conclusions that have been given to us and are generalities. They say: relaunch of investment. Where's the Juncker Plan, Kill-Rile-Rile, Mr. Resident? Because it's harder to find the Juncker Plan than Wally. We don't know anything about anything. Can Europe be allowed to talk about relaunching when it turns out that the commitments it has reached are not implementing them? Then he talks about responsible budgetary policies and structural reforms, that is, euphemism for more austerity. The European environment is still without growth and is our basic market. Growth at a very low level, if it becomes something structural for a few years, will become something structural not for a decade but for much more, and that means little employment and low productivity. Quite a panorama and a small static Europe, once again. Mr President, I would like to talk to you about a very important issue that was also on the European agenda, as expressly stated in point 13. I don't know if you opened your mouth at the meeting to talk about this because you didn't even lie about it here and it seems like Spain doesn't care, but we are very worried. I am referring to the steel sector. Point 13 says: Given the difficult situation in the European steel sector, the European Council calls on the Council to study the Commission's communication expeditiously in order to act decisively in response to this challenge. Did you say anything about this? Because he hasn't communicated anything to us and we care. 50% of the Spanish state's steel industry is in Euskadi, but there are plants that are stopping, some paralyzing production and others that are at imminent risk of closure, and it is not one, but quite a few, many families, Mr President. There are two problems, an overcapacity when demand is lower and, in addition, China is making tremendous dumping, producing more than half of the world's steel. China is not a market economy, it had to have become a market economy according to the agreements reached sixteen years ago, but it operates within a regulated framework and cannot be treated as other countries. Look at what the United States is doing, putting in very high tariffs. Is Europe not going to do anything to protect its steel industry? Are you not going to ask Spain to protect the steel industry in Europe? To this must be added another problem in which his Government is also responsible, which is competitiveness based on the cost of energy. You didn't even lie about all this. He does not give us information because, moreover, his Government refuses to appear. In the meantime, they will have to act on matters like this, we will be able to ask them and the minister will have to come and talk about these issues, for example. Well, it doesn't look like it. At the Brussels Summit they sent a secretary of state who read a paper for two minutes in which everything was general. Are there more countries involved? I insist, did you say anything at that meeting? The Basque Government has passed them a document with energy proposals and we still have no response. What's the state for if it's not to get involved in this kind of business? It's going to turn out to be useless; it's for reflection. Brexit. This matter has already been discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but there is something that concerns me and which you have taken for granted. He referred to the fourth point, which I think was much tighter than I was, and I have to accept it, but I am very concerned about the first point. I wonder if to ensure the UK's presence we need to make an interpretation of the treaties instead of going to an opt-out, which already has many of the UK, so one more! I can understand even the speed, faster or not, but with regard to the area of sovereignty, that is to say, point 1, literally says the following, Mr President-in-Office, do not distract me that then you will not understand my argument, please: 'The references made in the Treaties and their preambles to the process of creating an ever closer union among the peoples of Europe are mainly intended to point out that the Union's goal is to promote confidence and understanding among peoples living in open and democratic societies who share a common heritage of universal values. They do not amount to the objective of political integration.' In other words, are the references made in the treaties and preambles to the process of an ever closer union not equivalent to the objective of political integration? Well, I disagree, Mr. President! Of course, of course that has to be the first objective of the European Union! And we allowed ourselves to give satisfaction to the United Kingdom by changing what was a value to all. Isn't that why an opt-out on that topic was better? I think so, I think so. The decision, moreover, Mr President, attempts to limit in a way that I do not share the competences of the European Union because, as you well know, these competences are in fact not limited to those contained in the Treaty but that Article 352 of the Treaty states that the European Union has the capacity to take action with objectives that go beyond that Treaty. So, error, one step back, UK, that there are different speeds, that some countries want to integrate faster than others... It can be acceptable and avenues can be sought, but never by reinterpreting the treaties because the objective must be to move towards greater union between States. In short, towards the disappearance of the States within the European framework. That's how we see it. Therefore, international legislation is not being complied with in Turkey, we have stumbled on European values and the agreements are going to give us problems. Remember point 9, which no one has given importance to, and which will give us many problems. On economic matters, Mr President, we are in a worse position than last year, but of course Europe must be told that it has to initiate another policy and that it has to do so now. Third issue, Mr President. We have put forward a proposal for the next week on the steel industry, which we consider vital, because the employment of many families depends on the action that will be taken from the institutions and also within the framework of the European level, but we cannot get to that framework, which you can get to. As for the last point, Brexit, things could have been done differently. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u22	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Secondly, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which, as its members know, accumulates in this speech its rebuttal shifts, Mr Candela has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed here today the germ that is destroying Europe: cynicism, hypocrisy, classism and institutional xenophobia; that is, in good words and good forms, but today we have seen that. Mr Rajoy, you had a parliamentary mandate and you have violated it; by voting in favour of the agreement of shame you have violated the will of the Spaniards enshrined in these Courts. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement of shame does not guarantee respect for human rights, and the most serious thing is that the European Council knows that. The European Council stated in its conclusions of 17 and 18 March that the European Union hoped that Turkey would respect democracy, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, that the European Union hoped that human rights would be respected. Wait for him, Mr. Rajoy. Do you believe, Mr Rajoy, that we can expect Turkey to be a safe country for refugees? A country that less than a week ago shot 13 adults and three refugee children at its border? A country that has not even ratified the protocols to the Geneva Convention? A country that has carried out large-scale deportations of Syrian refugees, as documented by Amnesty International? But if these are the reasons why Turkey's accession to the European Union had stalled, Mr Rajoy! It's these. And now he negotiates his accession... in exchange for human lives. The European Council has negotiated with human lives and you, Mr Rajoy, have been part of that; you have done so too. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot simply expect their physical integrity to be respected, it is our duty to guarantee the lives of refugees. Because being a refugee, Mr Rajoy, is not chosen, because those who flee from fear, terror and death do not do so out of pleasure but out of necessity as they did, by the way, our grandparents and grandmothers seventy-seven years ago. And today we are here the children and grandchildren of those people. Meanwhile, the European Union has decided to raise an unbreakable wall in Turkey, and do you know what it is to raise a wall in front of people fleeing Daesh's terror? You're welcome, ladies and gentlemen, you're welcome. Those who flee from hell will continue to flee by land, sea or air, and the more obstacles they face, the greater the mass grave that is already the Mediterranean. Mr Rajoy, you and the rest of your colleagues in the Council should have listened to all the social actors who have called for humane treatment for refugees: Amnesty International, Médecins sans Frontières, the Spanish Commission for Aid to Refugees, even the UN, through Unicef and Acnur, have criticized the agreement. The deal of shame. But they did not; neither you nor the rest of the Heads of State of the European Union were up to it. But it is that you, Mr Rajoy, have not only not been up to it, but have devoted yourself to torpedoing all the political and social initiatives that sought to help the refugees, and the Valencians can take good account of that. From the Valencian government he was proposed to collaborate in receiving and assisting refugees, we put everything on our side and we face the inaction of the government you preside over. We wanted to charter a boat to evacuate 1,100 refugees, and you did nothing. We wanted to coordinate thousands of volunteer families who offered to collaborate, and the answer was no; we wanted to send volunteers to work on the ground, and the answer was the same: no. Your government has done nothing, Mr Rajoy, and all I have to do is ask myself one thing: can you sleep quietly at night? [[Applauds]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u24	Thank you, Mr. Candela. Mr Garzón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Rajoy, President-in-Office. Words always have a hidden meaning, they are always very cheating, and you have reiterated one that is used a lot at this time that is that of refugees. But the question is why they are called refugees if the fundamental task the European Union is doing is precisely to deny them shelter, deny them the ability to help, deny them the support and defence of human rights. Because what is happening right now in the European Union is very serious, it is dramatic, not only because there are now more than 50,000 people who are helpless on European territory, who are helpless by all the governments of the European Union, but it is also only 10% of the people who are fleeing Syria. The war in Syria, terrorism in Syria, has led to more than 5 million people having to leave their homes seeking refuge and have suddenly encountered that in the European Union, this European Union, which is a myth of development, progress, human rights, Western civilization, does nothing but hinder them and maintain deeply anti-democratic attitudes and, above all, contrary to human rights. These people are now sleeping overcrowded, sleeping on the mud, suffering all kinds of fundamental deprivations: food, freedom. They are in detention camps - in detention camps - of the European Union; and detention is a concept contrary to the concept of asylum. So it is not worth decorating speeches with great words of help from the European Union, let us go to concrete reality. And the concrete reality - let us say it clearly - is that you, as a representative of the government in office, and other European leaders - in short, what we have considered as a handful of bureaucrats - have signed a commercial contract, a commercial contract, where the goods are people; people who would have to have human rights and who you deny them, because in that commercial contract you have at the same time hired a bully to whom you pay so that you and all European leaders can look elsewhere at the drama of millions of people who ultimately suffer terrorism and wars. And it is a commercial contract that clearly also causes classism, because the problem that the European Union has is with the poor, because to immigrants who come with money you open the doors to them, but when you are poor who flee from terrorism and wars, you do what you do is to put a bully who not only does not protect you, but who beats you, treats you with authoritarianism and which you also fund. A country that is a member of NATO - also responsible for the wars of which these people are fleeing - and a country that kills the Kurds, who are fighting against the Islamic State, against barbaric terrorism, which is not only in Syria but also, as we have unfortunately seen, on European territory. Mr Rajoy, Members of the People's Group, from the United Left-Popular Unity tomorrow we will file a complaint against the President-in-Office of the Government, Mr Rajoy, a complaint for crimes against humanity. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] I understand that it is graceful to you because, among other things, it seems that you do not learn from experience. That arrogant attitude that they just showed they also had when we filed the Bárcenas lawsuit, and today they don't smile so much after that lawsuit. [[Rumors.-Mr Floriano Corrales utters words that are not perceived.-Applause]] This complaint is a political exercise of dignity because crimes against humanity are not only committed by dictators based on military suits; many times it is also done by people in suits and ties, wearing labels, carrying briefcases and walking through European directives and institutions, because crimes of crimes against humanity also include deportation and forced transfer of the population, and that is what you are doing, and in particular the President-in-Office, Mariano Rajoy. [[Mr Floriano Corrales: We?]] For an exercise of dignity, we clearly say that not in our name. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u26	Mrs. Beitialarrangoidia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u27	Egun on, good morning. I want to start by denying the biggest one: no one is illegal. The millions of refugees trying to get to Europe fleeing hunger and war are people with rights, even though they are being treated inhumanely when they reach our borders. We therefore express our absolute and frontal rejection of the agreement reached by the European Union and Turkey, as it is increasingly moving away from Europe that some of us want: open, hospitable, land of asylum for all those who seek in our environment the possibility of a dignified life. They do not face endless calamities for pleasure, and when they arrive in Europe they find, paradoxically, many people eager to help them but with states that only respond with threats, like the mafias they claim to fight, marketing with these people. And it is that the agreement with Turkey, however much it is said that it is not going to involve mass expulsions and that the cases will be analysed one by one, is nothing more than that: the mass expulsion of people who are only looking for a better future and who are treated as goods with which to obtain political concessions. And that with a state like Turkish, with which the European Union should not even reach agreements until it respects the human rights of its citizens and does not stop slaughtering the Kurdish people. Turkey is also not safe for refugees, as it has been expelling entire families without even giving them the opportunity to apply for asylum; illegal action, hot returns, known and much in Ceuta and Melilla. Far from welcoming refugees, Europe systematically violates the rights of these people, as well as the agreements it is reaching to cover up their shames, when - as has been said earlier - a very small part of the Syrians have been received corresponding to the quotas that had been established for each State, without forgetting that Spain has systematically denied for years the virtually totality of the asylum requests that have been made. The Government, therefore, despises this Congress, its citizens - increasingly aware of the tragedy of refugees - the associations that work for the rights of these people, and it does so with one single objective, and it must be made clear: to close the borders. You know that well: no matter how much you try to tell them not to come, you will continue to try, running, if any, greater risks, putting their lives at risk, because you have nothing to lose and a lot to win, and the only way to prevent them from dying on the coast of Europe is to open up borders in the opposite direction to the agreement that has been reached, facing the drama at its root and in its depth and not with agreements like this that I believe we are ashamed of by a large majority and to which, at least since Euskal Herria Bildu, we want to show our deepest rejection. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. Mr. Alli.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr President-in-Office, Mr Rajoy, firstly we want to thank you for coming to this House and, secondly, to tell you that we have no doubt about your good intentions and that you have conveyed to the Council of Europe what was actually agreed here. The problem, Mr Rajoy, is that, in fact, the measures taken in this agreement are having three serious consequences: they are actually failing to comply with the international treaties which provide for human rights, they are failing to comply with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and, therefore, the Treaty of Lisbon of 2009 and the subsequent directives binding on all the Member States of the European Union and, above all, they are failing to comply with something basic such as the right of asylum and the right of refuge, which, I insist, are covered by Articles 77 and 78 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On the other hand, the agreement of the last Council in March is a trap agreement because it assimilates people in an irregular situation to refugees, and in order for a person to be considered as a refugee, two conditions must be met: firstly, that they risk their lives because they are fleeing their country because they are living a time of conflict - in this case a war conflict such as may be the case in Syria - and, secondly, that they seek asylum from the country of destination, which in this case may be the shores of Greece. At the moment there is no such free legal service for those people who arrive on the Greek coast and are therefore considered to be irregular immigrants and, automatically, the readmission agreements of different countries, such as in this case Turkey, are reactivated. That is the problem that is happening right now, and that is why some international NGOs have left because they do not want to continue working because of the non-compliance with the free legal advice service for these people to be considered refugees. Therefore, to conclude these last thirty seconds, Mr Rajoy, although it is very difficult to talk here about solutions, we encourage you to decide in the Council of Europe what is the best geopolitical diagnosis to bring there democratic governance and the implementation of human rights, in this case in a country such as Syria and others in the Middle East and Middle East. On the other hand, as a palliative measure, let us pay attention to two official United Nations agencies, such as Acnur and Unicef, which have been requesting sufficient funds and resources for five years to create refugee camps in neighbouring countries with Syria and the basic conditions essential for the autonomy and coexistence of those people who are massively leaving Syria and, above all, that preventive and never permanent measure to prevent trafficking in minors and trafficking in women because, ladies and gentlemen, never, ever, ever, no national or supranational sovereignty will be above human rights. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. Mr. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u31	Mr President, Spain's position on the problem of the thousands of people fleeing the war in Syria through Greece is not contradictory to what we have been supporting for many years in the face of the wave of migrants who risk crossing the Strait or arriving in the Canary Islands to enter Europe through our country in search of a better life. One day we cannot ask our European partners for solidarity when the problem touches us closely and another day to be insolidary when it happens in the distance. That said, after this appearance the Spanish today is much more powerful than the European one. That is why I wish to warn on behalf of the Forum about the risk of confusing the means to address the problem of government formation. Dialogue is only the means, the primary purpose of government formation is to shape the programme that solves the problems for the Spanish. The National Institute of Statistics reminded us last week that socialist politics placed Asturias as the autonomous community whose GDP has been further reduced in Spain in the period 2008-2015. That is why I stress that the agreement of the PSOE and Citizens seems to us to be negative, because none of its two hundred points deals with the reforms of Spanish politics that the Asturians need to aspire to a future of progress. Mr Sánchez and Mr Rivera do not care about the financing of the autonomous communities in order to promote solidarity and equality between them or the sharing of the investments of the State and so no one is less than the others. It brings you carelessly how you vertebrae Spain through the infrastructures to avoid both speeds. They forget the industrial, energy or mining sectors as levers of growth and employment. They ignore farming Spain, which is a pillar of our social and also maritime structure, with fishing as a source of food and wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, on the pretext of refugees, human rights and the principles of defence of the people and the public have been used this morning. See; see how they are spent in Asturias. Before yesterday, April 4, the trial of the Marea case began in Oviedo on the looting quantified in 9 million euros of the money of the public schools, which is another of the upbuilding episodes in which councillors, mayors, cultural managers, port authorities and trade unionists, all of them prominent socialists, participate. I suppose you gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u32	Mr Martínez, I have let you see if any of the conclusions were to end in Europe, but you are not focusing at all on anything to do with the point we are talking about. [[Applauds]] Stick to the question. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u33	Mr President, in a debate on the Juncker Plan, the steel industry and so many issues, please allow me in my three minutes...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u34	With regard to the European summit, of course.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u35	Yeah, that's why I was saying... I don't know if it bothers you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u36	Please focus on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u37	Good. I conclude, Mr President, I conclude. [[Rumors]] I conclude by pointing out that, in fact, I assume that Mr Sánchez and Mr Rivera will deal at their meetings and also repeal their law of the funnel of corruption that hides from the Spaniards what happens in Asturias and Spain. Thank you very much. [[Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate you on your excellent report.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u38	Mrs. Oramas. [[Protests Continue]] Quiet, please. [[Pause]] Mrs. Oramas, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no one renounces his country, his environment, his family and his life, no one exposes his children to the sea, the cold, the wind, the mafias, the contempt and the horror if what he leaves behind is not an even worse reality. The children of men and women who live in mud, surrounded by wires as if they were criminals, could be our children. The elders who can barely hold back in the cold and hunger could be our parents. Men and women who risk their lives, suffer abuse and abuse, contempt, needs, cold and terror, those men and women could be us. It is said by a canary that is part of a people who went to Venezuela and Cuba and it is said by a policy that had political responsibilities in 2006 - as you very well said, Mr Rajoy - with that crisis of the Cayucos. During that summer more than 60,000 people came and over three years more than 100,000 people came. 10,000 unaccompanied minors arrived and the Canary Islands had more than 1,400 foster children each year. Today I would like to acknowledge the effort made by the Basque Country at that time - the furthest one, which did not look elsewhere - and Andalusia, which already had 5,000 children. They were the only two communities that helped the Canary Islands because it was a voluntary theme. We experienced the crisis of the cayucos on those islands with Europe looking elsewhere and I, as mayor, together with the Vice President of the Government and the delegate of the Government at that time had to suffer the visit of MEPs to the center of Los Rodeos - where there were 5,000 people - to see if the legislation was being complied with. There were no pregnant women or babies there, there were no children because the Spanish complied with the law, with solidarity and with decisions, as you very well said. Today Spain cannot do the same as the rest of Europe did. The president of the Canary Islands has taken a step, he has contacted the leaders of Lampedusa, Lesbos and the Greek islands. There will be a meeting in Lesbos of all the European islands concerned to bring a common position to Brussels, because the problem is different from that on continental territory. We're going to work and that step has been taken by the Canary Islands. But today, above all, I want to be the voice of Save the Children who denounced that there are 3,000 people in the Moria detention centre in Lesbos when there should be some hundreds, there are 1,000 children and 160 of them unaccompanied and called for a package of measures to address the specific protection needs of migrant and refugee children, with concrete and measurable goals, and with adequate resources for that purpose, to be agreed with the European leaders. Today I ask you, Mr Rajoy, that we take a step as we asked at the time from Spain and did not listen to us, and that on the subject of minors - that all the autonomous communities have the resources and are willing to accept them - together with Unicef and Save the Children, we welcome these minors; that Spain take that step because we live it and we can live it again. That cry of the maximum responsible of Save the Children on the island of Lesbos, in the center of Moria, has to have an answer. You are the European leader who, at least, will take the lead in the next few hours on the subject of minors. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u41	Mr President, Asturias is Spain and Asturias is Europe, but allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin by mentioning what happened on 22 March when terrorism hit Europe again, this time Brussels. Several indiscriminate and brutal attacks resulted in more than thirty fatalities and hundreds of injuries. On behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to reiterate here today our strongest condemnation of terrorist barbarism and to transfer our solidarity and closeness to all victims and their families, as well as an early recovery to the hundreds of wounded in such attacks, just as I must do for those who in subsequent attacks and sometimes for religious reasons were killed vilely in Lahore or also in Ankara. Jihadist terrorism represents one of the main threats to the security of free and democratic societies. No country is immune to terror, therefore combating this global threat means establishing an appropriate and adapted response, capable of defeating this scourge where prevention, protection, collaboration, persecution and response are the pillars of its global approach. Because in the process of building Europe we must ensure a genuine security area through police and judicial cooperation, and through an effective counter-terrorism policy. In this sense, Spain is and must remain at the forefront of action to address this threat. Our country's long experience in the fight against terrorism tells us that the unity of democrats is an essential element for this and conscious of that, we signed a pact in 2015, a pact to which others have subsequently joined. That pact defends our model of coexistence and freedom, and that is so, with firmness and intelligence, as we must promote the values and principles that underpin our society because, ladies and gentlemen, the weakness of democrats is the strength of terrorists. That is why I do not want to miss the opportunity this morning to ask once again the political forces that have not joined this pact to rebuild and join. And to those who are only observers, who stop observing, Mr. Iglesias, and also join the covenant, because before a matter like this one cannot be either out or out of profile. [[Applauds]] Mr. Churches, you have come up this morning to the rostrum to teach human rights lessons. One has become accustomed to many lessons from this rostrum when he has been here for so long, but let me tell you that none of you, in the area of human rights. [[Applauds]] None of you, because I have not seen you defend the human rights of women or homosexuals in Iran throughout your life. [[Applauds]] He has not, as he has not done with the thousands of prisoners imprisoned in Venezuela while you were charging for that regime. [[Rumors]] Yes, sir. You practice the principle of I walk hot, laugh people. Mr. Rivera - isn't Mr. Rivera? - I understand that you complain about all this, but what worries me is that you will be sitting in a meeting tomorrow with those whom you have criticized here this morning in the way you did. [[Several Members: No!]] It seems to me that this is hypocrisy, as is very hypocritical the defense that some have made here this morning of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, lessons, few. And if you want to give some lessons, please go to Greece and give them to Mr. Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen, since the signing of the Treaty of Rome, integration, non-disintegration is what has given the European Union meaning and perspective. That is why we all make certain concessions so that we can reach an agreement which, while respecting the fundamental and founding principles and values of the Union, serves to ensure that the British people choose to stay in this common house called Europe. Because the prosperity of its Member States goes through a more united and integrated Europe, and that certainty allows us to be stronger and to ensure the viability of our model of development and well-being. A Europe in which the disintegration or mutilation of its Member States or its sovereignty makes no sense or should take place, Mr Homs. With regard to the European Council held on 17 and 18 March, we must say that we are satisfied with the decisions taken and the subsequent agreement reached between the Heads of State and Government of the European Union with Turkey. It must particularly satisfy us as a Parliament, because we have managed to give the final declaration a specific weight in the field of human rights, despite what some have said here this morning, which makes refugees more visible than a figure, as people who need and deserve international protection. We must be proud of this achievement, because we have also achieved it together on the basis of the consensus reached here in this Parliament. From this agreement, and from the institutional declaration agreed there, Spain came to Brussels with a firm position, endorsed by an agreement that made it possible to incorporate some points relevant to all, thus ensuring scrupulous respect for the text agreed in the institutional declaration. An agreement ratified by twenty-eight countries with different governments and views, which makes this agreement more meritorious. By the way, Mr Garzón, now that you are threatening to complain against the President of the Government, will you also complain against the rest of the Presidents of the European Union, against the 27? Also against Mr. Tsipras? Mr. Garzón, I know you're looking for notoriety, but one must not hang on the rope to make funambulism with the sole aim of having some relevance. Ladies and gentlemen, you have all spoken of Turkey. I have to confess one thing to you, and I think that since the battle of Lepanto I have never spoken so many people so bad about Turkey. [[Laughter]] Never, no one. Mr. Esteban, listening to you, you open your meats. I already know that you are from Bilbao, which is one of those that in two evenings and two kicks fixes all the problems of the international community, but there are some speeches that deserve me some grief when pronounced by a person like you, who, as I say, is from Bilbao and seeks to fix everything in two kicks. Mrs Surra came here this morning to tell us her personal situation, which I respect, and to give us lessons from the point of view of her situation and her personal experience. I accept that, but let me tell you that there are also people in my group who have been exiled, exiled in this case from communist regimes, from those communist regimes with which some of their political formation have special relations or also some of the other groups in this House. Also, Mrs. Surra, yes, here is an exile in our ranks and people who belong to families who have one of their members in exile. But it will allow me a reflection, Mrs Surra, and it is that you belong to a political formation that seeks to break Spain, which aims to divide the Spaniards, which has encouraged the division in Catalonia between good and bad Catalans, and that only leads to internal exile in Catalonia and also in Spain. [[Applauds]] And I would have to embarrass you, passing what has happened, to come here making these statements belonging to the party to which you belong. Ladies and gentlemen, no group can be made with the monopoly of feelings or solidarity. The humanitarian crisis that millions of refugees are experiencing is a matter of concern to us all, and in view of this we cannot demagogy and much less practice the hypocrisy and adanism that some people have and have maintained here this morning. Spain has proved to be a serious country, acting with solidarity and responsibility. Our Government has always maintained a very clear position in the treatment of asylum and immigration, and for that we have our laws and the reforms we have made, supporting from the outset a common migration policy as a basic element for achieving a true area of freedom, security and justice, from a comprehensive perspective that covers all aspects of the problem. Spain is one of the fifteen countries of the Union with a national resettlement programme. We are strengthening the national reception and integration system, both in material and human resources. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we have increased the budget allocation of the Asylum and Refugee Office by 105 % and last year we approved in this House not only an allocation of 53 million for this matter, but also a subsequent amendment of 200 million euros, to give the possibility that these people who come through their asylum application can not only find roles but also a real integration that will allow them to continue with their lives. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish model for immigration control has been and is a reference in the European Union - the President of the Government has said -. It is based on respect for international legality, avoids mass and indiscriminate deportations and fights forcefully against irregular immigration and the mafias who profit from this tragedy, promoting close cooperation with countries of origin and transit. And, Mr. Sánchez, today in this country, people are not asked for documentation when they leave the subway just because of their color, which was happening to you in the government. [[Applauds]] We are still aware of the complexity of the issue and that much remains to be done in immigration and asylum policy, and that further progress must be made in the process and in the peace agreement in Syria, which is, let us not forget, the main cause of this humanitarian crisis. Faced with the irresponsibility of those who still defend a policy of open doors - today also held here, in this rostrum - who only have arguments and support for xenophobic and populist political parties - as we have seen that it has happened recently in Germany or for some time in France - we are obliged to give an answer that guarantees the right of asylum to those affected by their religion or political condition, while reducing uncontrolled economic immigration, which only benefits the mafias who trade with human beings. As is the case with the March European Council, six-month priorities have been set out for economic action at national level, something I have certainly not heard from most speakers this morning. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the structural reforms that have been taking place in Spain over the last four years and the fiscal liability measures adopted in the last parliamentary term, things have changed a lot in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, the real government of change has been the government of the People's Party, this is the government of change, Mr Sánchez, you must understand. A government that has replaced the recession with recovery where you left us. A government that since March 2013, when the reforms came into operation, has promoted the creation of 1,400,000 jobs in Spain - today there are 2 million more Spaniards who have an indefinite contract than they had in 2011, Mr Sánchez -. A government that has promoted economic growth in 2015 of 3.2, double that Germany and triple that France or Italy; growth with social balance, ladies and gentlemen. A Government that has improved the purchasing power of 9.5 million pensioners, which has activated the change in the productive model and which, based on exports, allows a trade balance with a positive balance. A government that has lowered taxes on families and workers, which has improved access to financing and social benefits for self-employed people and SMEs, Mr Rivera. A government that has managed, for the first time in ten years, to lower the school failure rate by 20%, thanks to those educational reforms that you now want to repeal. A government that has saved health, public education and social benefits by paying for the pufos that others left us. This is what this government has been doing. Some complain about the deficit, and I am not going to make comparisons, Mr Sánchez, because the comparisons are odious, but I would like to remind you that you have left us with a deficit in the last three years of your government EUR 330 billion; in three years, EUR 330 billion. [[Applauds]] That was a deficit, Your Honor, and not the 10 billion deviation, which has to do, by the way, with the government or disgovernment of some communities where you have started or entered to govern. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against unemployment and structural reforms have been the aim of this government. That's what he does when he travels to Brussels. Others, when travelling to Brussels, have other objectives. You, Mr Sánchez, travelled to Brussels and your concern for the refugees was unprecedented, let me tell you that. His mission was to beg for support with Mr. Tsipras to see if he would convince his friends - cheer, Tsipras, that we have arrived - to see if they would arrive. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] This is the matter that you have defended in Brussels. I ask you, Mr Sánchez, to be more serious and stop zascandilear, begging for support, and that when you go there you also meet with the representatives of governments, some of whom are from your European political formation, also from your political forming partners, such as the Governments of Austria, Italy, Ireland, Sweden, Holland or the Commission itself, and learn how the centre-right and left parties have been able to sit down, to dialogue, to listen, to put their particular interest in the... Forgive me, putting the general interest before the particular interest - this confusion is because I was thinking of you - and reaching agreements for the sake of your country to curb populism and extremism. Because, Mr. Sánchez, the reality is that you lost the election with the worst election result in your history. He only won in five provinces, in an autonomous community - and by the hairs - and in Madrid was the fourth - there was no more -. But, of course, Mr Sánchez, to understand this, what you should do would be to change positions and companies, both in Europe and in Spain. I'm sorry that your vanity and your pride prevent you. If your reference is Mr. Tsipras now, I would encourage you to give up. We have all seen what has happened, unfortunately, in Greece. A 2.9 growth was expected and what they have had after an extreme left government is a new recession and a new intervention. We have all seen, regrettably, how even pensioners have had to queue up to collect their pensions after they have been reduced to 40%. Ladies and gentlemen, while in Europe we are deciding on important measures and actions, you unfortunately continue here, in the theatre of interpretation - of the coming, of the going, of the photo - which serves absolutely nothing, making proposals that seek, as the only objective, to squander and dynamite the task of the previous government, which has been - I insist - what has allowed the great change that Spain has had in recent times, that great change that passes through the creation of employment. Mr Sánchez, it is no longer just the meetings that you set up; I am beginning to worry that we have news of secret meetings in which you intend to get support from some partners with whom you do not dare to face, and I am referring to Mr Junqueras, with whom you seem to have also met to ask for your support. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way. Ladies and gentlemen, our European partners also give us the reason for the change that has taken place in Spain, and in their report last February the European Commission itself welcomed the completion of the banking consolidation process, the impact on business of the Market Unity Act, the benefits brought by the insolvency reform and, in particular, the strong job creation, above 3%, favoured by the recovery of competitiveness and labour reform. This is the way. As a result of these reforms, 18 million people are already working in Spain today, we have 18 million active people and thanks to their efforts, 13.2 million Spaniards receive social benefits; the activity of the active workers guarantees social benefits. This is the essence of what needs to be worked on and what needs to be paid attention in our country. While others, when they rule, as is being demonstrated in Valencia, Madrid or Barcelona, all they are worried about is paralyzing projects that can produce thousands of jobs, thousands of jobs. This creates mistrust and uncertainty and harms everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, we've had a hundred and ten days of blockade. Some complain that the government does not lend itself to control, but the government would do well if it complained to all of us - I include myself - about the essential fact, because the fundamental objective of this Parliament should have been to set up a government, and you, Mr Sánchez, have taken care of one minute to avoid that possibility, to block that possibility. I think that's the way we shouldn't go. I don't know which carambola you're looking for to try to be president, but the Spaniards told you not on December 20. You didn't win the election, you lost them. Have the decency to recognize your defeat, get to work for real, sit with Mr Rajoy and let us make possible a government in Spain like that of other countries and other great nations of Europe. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, stop fooling the citizens and if you really want this legislature not to end, sit down and negotiate from the ground up. From the People's Party we call for dialogue and a pact between the various parliamentary groups because we cannot put the recovery at risk. The change is understanding us. I'm closing up. Many times I listen to people talking bad about Spain, ladies and gentlemen, but Spain is a great country, a great nation. This is demonstrated by their relevance to the world, their presence on the United Nations Security Council and their ability to offer a model of coexistence that few countries can offer. As a feature of maturity and development, the Spaniards have demanded that we adopt dialogueal positions of rapprochement and understanding, and we are in it. That is why we must work harder than ever before to meet the expectations that citizens have placed in us, to learn to work together and to advance along the path of harmony, well-being and progress, not intolerance, which is, unfortunately, what some practice here. Ladies and gentlemen, my group, my party, believes in a European society, a free, just and supportive society, in which talent, work, effort and imagination are rewarded, but not to mention those who are weakest or disadvantaged, who must be encouraged and protected at all times. It is the welfare of citizens, that of equal opportunities, that for which this government works and has worked, which is what Spain needs and what Europe needs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u42	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be as brief as I can in this speech, although, as you can all perfectly understand, it is certainly not easy. There have been many interventions this morning; I would like to attend to them all. I will try not to repeat arguments because there are speakers from different parliamentary groups who have expressed the same concerns. I am going to refer in the same, fundamentally, to three issues that were the ones that were quoted here today. Firstly, on the subject of refugees, secondly, on Brexit and, thirdly, on the subject of the European Semester, on the economic policy recommended to Spain, and I will respond in passing to some of the approaches that have been taken, particularly with regard to the public deficit. With your permission, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start this speech by talking about Europe because I was surprised, I have to say very negatively, some of the statements that have been made by different speakers in this House. Europe, from the ECSC, the European Coal and Steel Community, then passing through the Treaty of Rome in 1957, where there were only six countries, as you will recall, the three Benelux countries, France, Germany and Italy, the fall of the Berlin Wall, which sealed Eastern Europe with Western Europe and throughout all that stage which is still continuing is undoubtedly a success story. Today in Europe we can be proud of some of our signs of identity that they cannot boast of elsewhere in the world. Europe is a union where democracy, freedom and human rights are respected. Few continents in the world can make an affirmation with the force with which I have just made it now. Europe is a territory, a union that can be presumed to have generated the greatest progress that has been generated anywhere else in the world in terms of per capita income in recent years. There is no place in the world, there is no continent on the planet as a whole with an income level like that of Europe. Europe can boast, and is one of its hallmarks of identity par excellence, of having a welfare state, a public pension system, a universal free public health system, an education system, a social service system, a system in which people are cared for as there is in no country in the world. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, so many countries want to join the European Union, so few, let alone none, want to leave the European Union and so many people from other continents want to come to Europe. That is why I would like to thank you, just as the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group has spoken of the need for us to say something positive about Spain from time to time and we are not always looking at the negative data, which there are, that we should do the same with Europe because, frankly, I do not see any geographical area in the world of which no one can be more proud than we in the European Union. [[Applauds]] I will begin my speech with a general approach on the issue of refugees. Then, throughout it, I will make a few comments on Brexit, also on the European Semester and on the state of the public deficit in our country, because there have been a number of speakers who have referred to this issue. When we talk not only about refugees, but also about immigration issues for economic reasons, which are the ones that we have experienced most intensively over the last few years in our country and also in many other countries of the European Union, we are talking about a very serious issue, probably the most complex and the most serious issue because of the implications it has of all kinds, which we have today and which we will have because we are going to live with it, as I said in my first intervention, over many years. It is a serious issue because it affects the most serious we have people, who are our individual rights; the first, in many cases, to life, but there is more, as you know. Secondly, it is a very difficult issue to solve. This is not resolved with one speech, nor with two, nor with three, with one measure, nor with two, nor with three. This requires having the clear ideas that I have often not seen many people - and I have been very concerned about this issue since I was Minister of the Interior at the beginning of the two thousand -. We have to be persevering; we have to have a lot of determination; sometimes we have to make decisions from those that we do not like to take and, of course, have a clear awareness that it is not always correct and that, above all, when decisions are made in Europe where unanimity is needed, where there are twenty-eight countries with very different approaches - because in Spain we think in a way but other countries have closed their borders and public opinion there thinks in a different way - because, when all this happens, the first thing we need to be clear is that we are dealing with a matter that is not going to be settled with two or three speeches, but with very clear ideas - I insist -, with great determination, with great perseverance and to be able to seek agreement with the greatest number of political groups or associations of all kinds that have an interest in rowing in the same direction in order to achieve the objective that we all want. Economic immigration - above all - and refugees have caused many things over the last few years in Spain and in the European Union, and unfortunately very few good ones; first of all, they have caused many deaths and continue to do so. We've had the opportunity to see it in the media, and unfortunately I'm afraid this won't end overnight. We've seen that there are many mafias who get rich at the expense of other people's misfortunes. These mafias are responsible for the human rights abuses against citizens. It is not the Member States, and even, of course, those that make up the European Union, which, as I said earlier, we can proudly affirm that we are defending democracy, freedom and human rights. This situation of refugees and immigration for economic reasons creates many difficulties in many countries, especially in some of the European Union, as is currently happening to Greece, or has happened to Spain in others - Mrs Oramas reminded us in her speech - or as has happened to Italy and Malta very recently. This situation requires important decisions. I will give you my opinion on both matters. One thing is immigration for economic reasons - the usual, that we have lived in Spain, in the Canary Islands, in Ceuta, in Melilla, in the Strait -, that of many people from other countries far away from ours who came by plane. Spain is today the country of the European Union which has the most foreigners living here in proportion to its number of inhabitants, not to mention those with dual nationality. If you review the latest published labour force survey you will see that more than 10% of the people employed in Spain are foreigners and within that group there are no dual-nationals. Spain has done well with integration policy. Today many of them are already Spanish, others are not but live here, and a large majority feel Spain as their country and give the battle in defense of what they think is good for them but also for their country, which - I repeat - is Spain. The best way to solve the problems of immigration for economic reasons - I share some of the statements made here - is to solve it at source. It is clear - it has been pointed out here - that the vast majority of people who move from one country or continent to another do so plainly and plainly because they cannot lead a dignified life in their country. It is necessary, I insist, to agree with the countries of origin and transit. It's hard but it can be done. Good proof of this - I have already given some examples - is that in Spain it has been done; these agreements have been maintained throughout history and are in force today. Cooperation policies must be used to assist the countries of origin of those persons who had to emigrate from their country. It is possible to fight, as is being done with the authorities of the countries of origin, to eliminate the mafias that traffic with human beings. I think it is necessary, as is being done in some countries, to jointly control borders in order to avoid those situations which lead to nothing good. I believe that it is possible, as is also being done with some countries, to engage legally in the recruitment of people who can work in our country, such as those who are coming now. That policy is what we have been defending for many years in the European Union, and with less success than we would have liked to achieve, but we have defended it. I have already noticed a change in the European Union in this area because in Malta, in November 2015, we were able to agree on extraordinary aid to African countries after the very serious events that took place, given the situation in Libya, throughout the next Mediterranean, in Italy and Malta. 1.8 billion will be devoted to cooperation with the countries of the African continent. I believe that this is the key - I am not going to go into more details and clarifications because it would make my intervention endless - the most sensible and reasonable way of resolving this type of immigration - I insist, for economic reasons - to resolve the issues at source or in transit countries. The situation is different from that of asylum, which has mainly occupied us in recent weeks in Europe and now in the debate that is taking place in this House. There have been no major asylum problems in Europe in recent years. Europe is asylum territory. When I speak of asylum, I speak of people persecuted for their political ideas or simply of people affected by war situations, such as Syria, which has occupied us most today, or as can also be the cases cited in Eritrea and Pakistan. The truth is that today the best way to solve this issue would certainly have been to have solved - because it has been going on since 2011 - the situation that is taking place in Syria. That is certainly the origin of all the problems; that is certainly the origin of the problems in Turkey and Greece. That is why I have been asked the questions that Mr Esteban asked me this morning about what we have adopted or not in relation to the protection strip on the subject of Turkey, the Kurds, etc. That is the origin of the problems that have occurred in Europe, which are certainly not upbuilding, but which have occurred: the closure of borders in several countries of the European Union and in several countries that are not part of it at the moment. Well, what has the European Union done in a situation like the one I am describing in a very succinct way? Simply, you have made a decision, which the vast majority of you have criticized here today, and probably have your reasons for doing so or probably not, because surely it is easier to criticize than to build. You must also think that when twenty-eight countries represented by twenty-eight heads of State or Government, of radically different political ideologies, are able to agree, something good will have that proposal. Ladies and gentlemen - some of you can allude to it in a more intense way - it is not credible that twenty-eight are right at all, even though they think differently about so many important things, and some - probably aspirants to Messiah - believe that they are right at all; plainly and plainly, that is not credible. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, following this brief initial introduction, I will try to respond, as far as I can, to the various concerns that you have conveyed here to the rest of us in this House this morning. Mr Sánchez makes a very brief comment on the deficit - then I will talk about the public deficit -. He's telling us about the government in office, he's telling us we have to go with a warrant... I am aware that I have not failed to do so, as some Members of this House have said here today. In addition, there would always be an alternative, which was for twenty-seven countries to make a decision in one direction and another to veto it. If anyone wants that to be done, let him say it; if he doesn't, let him say what he thinks is right and right. Honestly, I think I did what I had to do without more interest than helping solve a problem and without being - as I'm sure none of those who were there, who are twenty-eight, but whose vote was needed - absolutely convinced that one hundred percent of the decisions were one hundred percent of the decisions that had to be made. Some of you who have some experience on European issues know that this is how things work and that no one can impose the whole of their will, or their claims, on the whole of the Union because if it would not be very difficult to build the European Union. Mr. Sánchez, I cannot agree with that statement - which on the other hand does not make much sense - which you make saying: No, it is that you changed your mind; you first approved that statement of March 7th... Well, all right, what do you mean by that? That I did it very badly on March 7th and then, thanks to his brilliant reasons and arguments, I changed my mind and went the right way? Look, it's not true. As I will show you later, the policy we are pursuing in immigration and asylum policy is very similar to that which was done during the previous government, and I think it is good. Whatever the government comes out of this House on the next dates - if it comes out - or after the elections, it should maintain the same immigration and asylum policy. On the 7th day - I said this in my initial speech: when the meeting of Heads of State and Government took place, it was not even a European Council - we did not adopt any agreement. We simply listened to what Mr Davutoglu had told us and asked the President-in-Office of the Council to try to reach an understanding with Turkey with the aim that the agreement with Turkey could be approved at the European Council on 17 and 18 March, as was the case. Moreover, in my speech at the Council meeting on 7 that day, I called it nonsense - because it was exactly the word I used - some of the decisions that were intended to be made there or that we made in the future. That was March 7th. The Committee of Permanent Representatives met on 9 March and Spain has already expressed the same concerns as I had at the meeting on 7 March. The Permanent Representatives Committee reconvened on 11 March; the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 10 and 11 March; and the General Affairs Council on 15 March. All these meetings took place before the meeting held here by the Joint Commission on 16 March. In all of them - you may agree or not, but this is an objective fact - we have already stated that there were some things we did not like: first, collective expulsions - we did not like them. Secondly, we call for respect for international legality; for the individual treatment of all asylum procedures; and for the care, as the United Nations says, of people in situations of greatest vulnerability. I therefore cannot accept that statement which you have made that the People's Party had a certain opinion and then changed it. In any case, if we had had an opinion and then changed it, and the change would have occurred for the better, we would have to congratulate ourselves on having had the modesty and humility to change our mind and do something that was better than what we had originally thought; but it was not exactly so. He also referred in his speech to the issue of resettlement and relocations. He says - and he is right - that almost none of the commitments made by Spain has been fulfilled. That has happened to Spain and to absolutely all the countries of the European Union. Does that mean I'm calm? No, I wish I could have done it by now, but things aren't that easy. The relocation agreement affected 160,000 people throughout the European Union. For today not a thousand people have been relocated to the European Union, not a thousand people! It's hard, Mr. Sanchez. I think now things will start to get better. It is difficult because relocation requires a prior process of identification and registration of fingerprints that cannot be obviated, as is evident, for security reasons. There are many people who are very reluctant to be registered and identified, because if they are, they can no longer choose the country to which they want to go and can be sent, as it seems reasonable, to another country of the European Union. I insist: Spain is one of the sixteen Member States that has made some relocations of refugees - there are twelve that have done nothing -. They are minimal, I know they are minimal; I hope that these things will improve in the future. The establishment of hotspots has been a very slow process. We went there to try to do a pilot experience and could not bring more than 18 people because some did not want and because the hotspots did not work. On the other hand, it is the authorities of the States in which hotspots are located that have to communicate which people are relocable. We had many problems and were discussed at the European Council with some of the countries that were most directly affected by this. Last year Spain received 20,000 asylum applications, of which more than 5,000 were Syrians. It's very easy to say: They haven't relocated or resettled enough people. Neither we nor anyone. What we now want with these decisions that have been taken in relation to Turkey is for things to improve and we can bring people who are entitled to asylum, mainly from Syria and who are currently in Turkey. You said: When I am President of the Government Spain will be a host country. Forgive me, but that's a frivolity. Spain is a host country now, it has been before, it has been when you were ruling and I suppose if you or any other manage to govern it will remain a host country. I have here the policies that we have developed over the past few years; they are the same policies that the former Minister of the Interior, Mr Pérez Rubalcaba, has carried out. What was he doing? Re-admission agreements with other countries, cooperation aid, trying to control borders jointly and reaching an agreement with those countries so that all those people who came illegally... Although there are people in this House who say that there is no one who is illegal. Anyway, that's what we use and that's how it is: there are people who come legally and others who don't come like that. That's the same policy that was being done here. I have brought UN criticism to Spain in 2011 to put an end to the indiscriminate detention of immigrants; criticism from some UN agencies of the Spanish Police, saying that support associations believe that the regulations of the Ministry of the Interior stimulate xenophobia and racism, and also criticized the Spanish educational system. The then Minister of the Interior said that the vast majority of people who arrived in Italy and Malta are strictly illegal immigrants, so he was in favour of returning to the countries of origin. He also said: I am very much in favour of Europe as a region of asylum, but I am also very much in favour of saying that illegals cannot stay. Those are the statements of his Government. What happened to the Syrians? In 2011, the Spanish Government decided to impose a transit visa on Syrian nationals, when the civil war in Syria had already begun. The United Kingdom then did so. The policies we are trying to implement by people with responsibilities of government are respectful of rights, freedoms and democracies, and we are trying to help these countries, but in these procedures there is an order and a regulation or of course it is absolutely impossible to make any kind of decisions that will help to build and solve problems. You say you have to be supportive - that's all very well -, so do I. With Greece we must show solidarity, with Turkey, with the neighbours; I have told you about Jordan, Lebanon and the countries of Africa. Another speaker has also said that he does not know what my contributions to Europe are, but on this issue of refugees Spain and my Government I think he made some important contributions, some of which, on the other hand, were demanded by this House. Mr Iglesias says that we have not complied with the House's resolution. I don't agree. If you read the conclusions of the European Council you will see that there are many contributions that are literal transcripts of the resolutions adopted by the Congress of Deputies. If what you are claiming is that the nine points appear to be shot at in the conclusions of the European Council, I am afraid that is very difficult. If all the people who attended the meeting of the European Council, twenty-eight, we were on a role and all said that that role had to be included in the Council's conclusions, it would seem to me that it would be impossible to build Europe or to build anything. I could meet there with some people who thought exactly the opposite of what the Spanish Parliament said, and there were. You know that there are many countries in the European Union that think differently. So, decisions at twenty-eight are usually made through a set of conversations of that which is so fashionable that it is called dialogue, in which one gives in to his approaches, another gives in to others and, from there, if anyone wants to impose his own on others, believe me, he has a serious problem ahead of him. As to whether we rule out all kinds of collective expulsion, it was asked by the speaker, the president of his country's government. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, that wasn't in the conclusions. You, your group, called at the Joint Committee meeting on 16th for respect for the principle of non-refoulement; that was what you did. It's on the fifth line, because I asked for it. That any application for asylum must be dealt with individually in accordance with the directive on asylum procedure was also requested by the President of the Government of Spain and at the end, after the 16th meeting in this House. Taking into account the vulnerability criteria of the United Nations, the Spanish Government has also raised this issue, as many other things that are here will have been raised by those who represented their country at those meetings. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I cannot share your position. It cannot be said that what has been agreed is a shame and a burial of the right of asylum. It can be said in another way, with a little more fineness because it sounds very bad. It is not possible for twenty-eight leaders, including representatives of the Greek Government, to be anti-democratic, fascist, evil and liquidated human rights; it is not possible, because we are in Europe and we are democratic governments. Therefore, a little moderation; learn from me, that in that I am very good. [[Laughter and applause]] Don't take advantage of assets that are everyone's. Human rights, the right to life, the right to freedom of expression and the right to asylum, all of these things I believe are defended by all members of this House; they are not theirs. You should be happy that all the members of this House would stand up for you because that would mean more people who would stand up for the same thing as you. No one has the heritage of feelings, rights, freedom or life. In some things it is always appropriate for all of us to agree more or less. I do not agree, however, with you on the subject of hot returns. The European Commission in its day, at the request of some associations that saw things differently from what we see, made an information file - I think that was the exact name of that action - and it has not opened any procedure to Spain that - I insist - respects human rights, freedom and citizens. Turkey's safe country. In order to be considered a safe third country, certain conditions must be met, which are those which establish a European directive, 2013/32: that life or freedom are not threatened by reason of race, religion, nationality or membership of a social group, particular or public opinion. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European Parliament, Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, raise the index finger, indicating one]] Respect the principle of non-refoulement, in accordance with the 1951 Geneva Convention. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of this group raise their fingers index and heart, indicating two]] Prohibit expulsion if subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. [[Several ladies and gentlemen from the same group raise their fingers index, heart and annul, indicating three]] And the possibility of applying for refugee status and receiving protection under the Geneva Convention is envisaged. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of this group raise their fingers index, heart, cancel and small, indicating four.- Mrs Montero Gil: And now there are four!-Rumores]] Let me continue because in the end you'll see how I'm right. [[Laughter]] Turkey meets these requirements and is a party to the 1951 Geneva Convention, maintains the original geographical limitation of the Convention and considers refugees only from European countries, but Acnur says that, although Turkey maintains the geographical limitation, its legislation provides protection and assistance to asylum-seekers and refugees regardless of their country of origin. Turkey is now guaranteeing temporary protection to the Syrians and their non-refoulement, as the European Commission has informed us. They can also access the labour market and have the right to access public services such as education and health. Turkey makes a great effort - it is that in Turkey there are 2.5 million Syrians -; Turkey makes a great effort, so Turkey must be helped to solve the problem, by Turkey, by the Syrians and also by us. Acnur himself believes that Turkey has made enormous contributions during these years. It is clear that it still has difficulties and that things can be done better, but there is one thing that is even more important: it is Greece that has to determine whether or not Turkey is a safe country. Greece, at the last meeting of its Parliament held a few days ago, has said, with the vote in favour of Syriza and with the vote against a party like mine, that Turkey is a safe country. Look at how things work around the world. [[Rumors]] Turkey is therefore a safe country, at least that is what I see and that is what we see throughout the European Union. Mr Domènech speaks of Syria, which is indeed a matter of enormous complexity. It is true that since 2011 we have been in a situation that has become even more complex. There is Bashar al-Assad, the opposition to Bashar al-Assad; there are the Kurds, there is Daesh, there have been the Russians, the Americans, the French. This whole issue has been complicated by some terrorist attacks, but it is clear that if any priority should be given to the world right now - there are many problems to solve - it would certainly be to solve the problem in Turkey, which is from Syria, which is generating them not only to the whole of the European Union but to millions of citizens who have to live outside their country flat and flat because they cannot live there. You make a statement - I don't want to have a debate with you either, I don't even intend to give it back to you - looking at the government. He says, "Look, these Syrians are people. Yeah, of course they're people. I say the same to Mr. Iglesias: you do not have the heritage of good feelings. Believe me that in that group there are good people; then we are some that maybe we are a little more complicated, but believe me that there are good people, as surely happens also in your group. [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] Don't be so unfettered in your criticism of the European Union, it's not fair. We are faced with the most important political integration process that has taken place anywhere in the world in recent years. There are four things: the Pacific Alliance, Mercosur - which is not -, trade treaties with the United States, Mexico, Canada. This is an integration process as we have not seen in many years. It's been a long time and we've given up a lot of things, but I think we've all turned out to be very beneficial in the end. For example, Spain - little has been said here today about Spain - is one of the five countries where per capita income has risen the most in the last forty years. Did you help that a lot? Yes, there are good things in Spain; that, for example, is very good, I hope we can bring it up more in the future. Europe has some signs of identity - I referred to this in my first speech - such as the welfare state, which does not exist in the country of the world with more gross domestic product or in the second country of the world with more gross domestic product. There are some countries where budget expenditure on pensions knows how much it is? Zero, and they can be the second largest country in the world in gross domestic product. Let us also appreciate some of the positive things that exist in our country and in that European Union in which we are fortunately integrated. I do not repeat the arguments about resettlements and relocations that I explained to Mr Sánchez because it makes no sense, however, to the thread of his intervention I would like to make a very brief comment on the Autonomous Communities, NGOs and trade unions. As I have told you before, this process is either done in an orderly way or it can lead us to achieve infinitely worse results than those for which we are working. I am not going to say that this is the exclusive competence of the State; I am not going to give that argument - which is also very valid and should be respected, but I am not going to give it to anyone - but I am going to say that this whole operation, as it could not be otherwise, is being coordinated at European level with a central authority in each Member State, because that is what has been agreed in the European Union and that is what all the countries of the European Union are doing. And here, in Spain, that authority is the General Secretariat for Immigration and Emigration, which carries out all this operation, either directly or with agreements signed by autonomous communities, municipalities and other entities to which they must address. I am absolutely in favour and in favour of all administrations cooperating, but let us do so in an orderly fashion, and let us agree among all what each can contribute. It cannot be that someone makes a decision without consulting anyone, because it has occurred to him, and then sends a letter saying that he is paid the costs that led to that decision. That doesn't work, other than that it's not a method of working too fair. He also asked me about the Asylum Fund and the budget of the National Reception and Integration System. This year has greatly improved, amounting to 253 million for the financing of shelters and for the financing of a programme of concrete actions for reception and integration, including accommodation and maintenance; psychological, health and social assistance; counselling and support to schools, health and social centres; school reinforcement for children; interpreters; language classes; etc. This is already included in the 2016 State General Budgets, which, as you know, were approved in this House at the end of 2015. In any case, if more resources were to be provided - possibly, or not, we do not know for sure - I do not think that there are any groups in this House who are opposed to amending the budget appropriation. I shall now reply to some of the statements made by Mr Rivera in his speech. I am not going to repeat the answers on matters that had already been raised by other speakers, but there are some things I think I should answer to you in detail, and one of them is Brexit. I say this because to the people who intervened before you should not worry much about this Brexit and therefore have not said a word on the matter, which, on the other hand, frees me from the fact that this intervention is much more extensive than it is and is going to be, given what I am seeing. I would like to tell you that when our country's position on Brexit was discussed, it was discussed using the same procedure that has been used since we entered the European Union. Before a European Council always appears the Secretary of State for the European Union - the current Minister of Education has done so on many occasions - the groups say what they think is appropriate and convenient and then the President of the Government comes here - as I am now coming here - to explain what has happened in the Council. The procedure was the usual one; moreover, on this occasion it was not the Secretary of State for the European Union but the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In any case, it is a procedural issue and it does not seem to me to have the importance of the substantive issue, which is Brexit. And I want to say the following: the agreement we have reached with the United Kingdom allows, first of all, all countries that want to do so to move forward in the integration process. It allows, he says, it is very clear, and in that sense it implies the ratification of something that already existed and is very positive. I certainly agree with you in many of the things you have said; I believe that we must move forward in the process of integration, and I have pointed out something - I will not repeat it now - in my initial speech. Indeed, I believe that we can and must do so; we must make progress first in economic union. We still have digital issues, financial services, the energy issue, which is very important, but there are still things left in the banking union, in monetary policy, and let us no longer say in the political union and in the fiscal union. Second comment. Not all countries of the European Union are participating in all common policies today. The most paradigmatic case is the euro; there are 19 countries out of 28 in the euro. In the case of Schengen, neither Ireland nor the United Kingdom are in Schengen and yet countries that are not in the Union are in Schengen - Norway, Switzerland and I believe Iceland too -. Third thing. What would happen if the UK left? Because if I go there and say I don't like this, and because that requires 28 votes without mine doesn't come out, what would happen? We don't know that, because a two-year period would open up. Of course, what I am absolutely convinced is that the social benefits of workers in the rest of Europe would be infinitely lower if the United Kingdom were to be that otherwise. I would also like to say that the United Kingdom is very important to us, to Europe and to the world. It is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, it is the second European economy, it can play a very important balance factor among other major countries of the Union; for Spain it is a decisive country. Exports reached €18 billion last year and imports 12,000; that is, for our balance of payments it is a very important country. And I don't say anything to our tourism anymore: 15 million British tourists came here, being the ones who spent the most in the last year in our country. The United Kingdom was the sixth recipient of Spanish investment abroad, which is very important, and in relation to the accumulated stock of Spanish investment the United Kingdom ranks first. United Kingdom was the third foreign investor country in Spain, and in relation to the accumulated stock of British investment in Spain the United Kingdom is in seventh place. It is therefore very important that things in the United Kingdom go well. Mr Cameron has made a bet; there is a sector of public opinion that is against it, but I believe that what he has demanded of us from his partners in the European Union was reasonable, and we had a lot of discussion, it was not an easy process, but I sincerely believe that we have brought much more to Spain, to Europe and, if I may, even to the world by betting that the United Kingdom will continue in the European Union - of course you will bet on it; I am not saying that it will not - than if we had maintained a contrary position. As for the steps behind Europe, it is true that we had problems with some countries - some referendums were lost - but in the end we agree absolutely on this. All of Europe will defend human rights, fight against the mafias, defend asylum. Human rights have always been guaranteed. If we question this, we certainly have problems. I will not repeat what I have said about relocations, resettlements, or autonomy. We can indeed criticize Europe, its functioning, the bureaucracy, the way in which decisions are taken, that the meetings are extended until seven o'clock in the morning, that the Prime Minister of a country appears making a proposal to twenty-eight people and that they know it on the move. That's all very easy to criticize. I could make a list - if you give me some leaflets, I can fill them up - but honestly in life we must go to the greatest. There are things to criticize, things to improve, but the project is worth it, and the first one you have said is you when you spoke of the United States of Europe, a phrase from Monnet. I shall now reply to Mrs Surra, Member of the Republican Left of Catalonia. I thank you for your advice and even for your lessons. Life is a constant learning process in which you always have to try to be alert to the one who jumps to know more and more, because one does not lose anything with that. As for the refugees, he says to me, you don't know what you're talking about. Your Honor, we have a problem, because if the criterion applies to me alone, well, but if it applies to the other 349 Members of this House, who have not been refugees either, nobody here knows what they are talking about. You can only talk about refugees, and the others, if you like, we're leaving. [[Laughter]] It could be a little more generous. Something we've had to study everyone, and come here and tell me that I don't know what I'm talking about doesn't make sense. In any case, I very much appreciate your vital situation and I suppose you have had your difficulties and your complexities, but I really - indeed - am glad that you have found a safe and peaceful place in my country, which is called Spain. He doesn't know what I'm celebrating. [[Applauds]] It makes me want my country more because it shows that it is a host country. I'm not going to talk about grandparents, not even mine, knowing where mine was - well, I know that - and where were those of others in this House. [[Rumors]] Look to the future, because that's where we're going to be for the rest of our days. [[Applauds]] On the deal, you have made a global and absolute disqualification. It is impossible to build anything with an intervention like the one you had this morning in this House. Really, believe me that in life you always have to leave a certain margin to see where we can understand each other, you always have to think that others do something positive, even if they are as bad as I am, that I can sometimes think of something sensible. I know it's not very often, but sometimes it is, because otherwise, you leave no room for anything. Global and absolute disqualification. It is against the policy of agreements being made throughout Europe to solve these problems at source; it is against our relations with Morocco, Mauritania, Senegal and many other countries; it does not believe that Turkey is a safe country and says that human rights are not respected throughout Europe. I do respect you and I am not going to give you any advice or lessons because I am not qualified for it, but it is appropriate from time to time to turn around the actions of some because of the rectifications - that I know very well - you learn a lot. [[Applauds]] Now I'll answer Mr. Homs. It has been of infinite generosity to my person and my parliamentary group. I didn't expect anything else. Then I will talk to you about European policy because this topic should be documented. Look what you said: You don't paint anything in Europe, you're an extra, guest of stone. This is absolutely useless, especially because you have no argument to show that this is true, among other things because it is I who is in the European Councils, you are not the one who is in the European Councils. [[Laughter]] Pay attention to me, that I know what I do there and what the contributions are. Today I have referred only to some because if I had to refer to all of us we would never end. If there's one thing I'm going to talk about because you've put a special emphasis on it, it's the public deficit. I think this interests you and everyone, and we should be more interested. I am in favour of having the lowest possible public deficit, the lowest. It is good evidence that I, together with the then socialist Government, facilitated a reform of the Constitution - that of Article 135 - on this matter. I am therefore in favour of lowering the public deficit. I am in favour of doing so on a reasonable schedule, because if we bring it down in an unreasonably reasonable way we can sink growth, with which we would achieve the opposite effect, which is to increase the public deficit. All these statements that I have just made, I have now tried to put them into practice. As I said earlier, I signed the reform of Article 135, the tax treaty of the European Union, and I believe that the action we have taken in the government over these four years has moved in that direction. The first thing to say here is that the public deficit in the year 2015 in Spain fell, because, listening to some, it gives the feeling that it rose. No; in Spain the government deficit fell from 5.8 % to 5.16 %, i.e. almost 0.7 %. In 2011, which was when I came to the government, the government deficit was 9.13, today it is 5.16; we have dropped it 4 points, despite the fact that in two of the four budgetary years Spain was in recession, with the consequent fall in revenues. In the Central Administration of the State - even though I am responsible for what happens in all the Administrations, but I mean that of the State, where I am supposed to be easier to make decisions - the public deficit this year not only fell, but we met the goal and got a surplus on the goal, just as happened to the local corporations in Spain. Local corporations had a surplus on the target of 0.44; we of 0.22; and the autonomous communities of 0.96. Some of the Autonomous Communities have complied and others have failed. In any case, I am not going to criticize any of them; I think it makes no sense, what we must do among all of us is to follow the path of deficit reduction. I will not do it because in 2011 the deficit of the autonomous communities was 3.35 and today is 1.66, half. This is an important step forward because the autonomous communities had the same problems as the rest of the administrations with tax revenues. Now what we have to do is persevere. On the deficit, I want to make two more comments that I think are important. There's been talk of tax cuts. It is clear that the fall in taxes, especially the personal income tax, has amounted to €7 billion, which would be a 0.7 deficit; although this also leads to growth, there is a 0.7 deficit more. But I must also tell you that there are autonomous communities that have fulfilled the objective and that the Government of Spain has also fulfilled the objective. Those who met the target did so even though taxes have dropped. It is therefore not true that lowering taxes always leads to an increase in the deficit. That's not true. The second comment I want to make is the following. I am unmistakably impressed by the failure to meet the budget deficit target. I accept the criticism, but I would also like those who have made the criticism to tell their representatives in the various autonomous parliaments - in some of which they are supporting governments that have failed, and very much, the public deficit - to ask that government to comply with it and not to present motions that increase public spending, because that is what leads to a greater public deficit. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I am not a fan of the public deficit; the public deficit, like all macroeconomic figures, is not an objective in itself, it is an instrument at the service of the great objective: economic growth, job creation and the improvement of the well-being and wealth of citizens. [[The lady]] Frankly, we have corrected much of the macroeconomic imbalances: inflation in Spain is now below zero - when we arrived at the government it was above 3, which not only made people lose purchasing power, but also competitiveness to our companies, which means -; the foreign sector, which was in deficit at the time, is now in positive, which shows that Spanish competitiveness is improving, and public debt, which is very high, but, among other things, because we have had to pay off commercial debt, nothing less than 35 billion euros, which were not in any place, but in drawers of different administrations. And the most important thing is no longer that, the most important thing is that in Spain four years ago the growth was negative. In the last quarter of 2011 we were at less than 1.8 and in the last quarter of 2015, four years later, we grew by 3.5 %. Nor will we have done so badly as regards the public deficit and other accompaniments. But this is much more important and it is better understood if we see the employment figures I have here. Social security membership is growing in the last month, March, to 2.8%, and when we arrived at the government it was decreasing by three and a peak percent, and unemployment, which is falling at a rate of 8% per year according to data from the last month, when we arrived at the government was in a radically different situation: it was rising by 10% per year. It is therefore very good for us to be blamed for the public deficit, but, as always happens in life, a comprehensive, balanced and sensible assessment of the economic policy of the Government should be made. [[Applauds]] Mr Homs has said that foreign policy is a disaster. What is a disaster is that there are representatives of autonomous communities who speak ill of Spain in all those places where they get them to receive them, selling a project that is manifestly illegal and contrary to the Constitution and the rules that we have given among all. [[Applauds]] That is negative for our country. I shall now reply to Mr Esteban; I have already answered a few things. On the steel industry there is a paragraph, indeed, paragraph 13 of the conclusions of the European Council, which you probably already know. Previously Minister Soria, in February this year, sent a letter to the European Commissioner for Internal Market and Industry supporting the implementation of urgent measures to compensate unfair trade practices that could have negative consequences in a sector that is of utmost importance for employment and production in Spain. We then follow the situation in the sector closely, we support the adoption of the necessary measures and I therefore supported the adoption of paragraph 13 in the conclusions of the European Council. I have here the letter in case you have any interest in it being moved. He has made a statement on the issue that has occupied us most throughout this morning, which is the issue of refugees. He says the deal with Turkey is a patch. I'm not going into terminological discussions. I think that's what you can do today, honestly I do. I have been calling for this comprehensive immigration policy for a long time, I believe that steps are being taken in the right direction, but today we are in a truly dramatic situation, because it is dramatic that there are 2.5 million people in Turkey, it is dramatic what is happening in the Aegean, it is dramatic the situation in Greece and it is dramatic and regrettable the closure of borders by some countries of the European Union. Therefore, it is true what you say, it may be a patch, but I think it is a step in the right direction and in the times we live in we are not always looking for solutions ten, because normally in politics when it comes to governing, and generally in any facet of life, that does not exist. If you start from scratch, try to get three, six, seven first, and don't rush, because perfection in this life is very difficult to achieve. At least that's the experience we have some. I agree with the key: origin. I have already talked about this matter of Syria, of Pakistan. Are the decisions left in Turkish hands? No; some decisions are left to Greece and Turkey, and we are going to support both countries, but it is not about establishing a debate here with Turkey or seeing it as an enemy, not even as an adversary. It is about working together to solve the problem of millions and millions of people living in a dramatic situation because of what is happening in Syria, Pakistan, Afghanistan or so many countries in our world. And he talks about helping refugees. Before I explained, when I replied to Mr Domènech, what we intend to spend on the budgetary allocations in 2016. The European Union is going to transfer EUR 700 million - 300 this year - to Greece for all the attention to which you referred. He also talks about the deficit. Perhaps, as the Basque Government has fulfilled, you are very happy. I can't say the same thing, what we're going to do, things don't always come out the way one would have liked. And on the Brexit I think that already, having answered Mr Rivera, I have nothing more to add. And I'll get back to the Joint Group. Mr. Candela said we didn't... do I miss one? [[Rumors]] The intervention is necessarily long and extensive, but I do so in consideration and for your benefit. If only a spokesman had intervened, he would have spoken for five or ten minutes, but there are people who would be disturbed, and rightly so, that I would not answer him. I mean, if you want my interventions to be shorter, you know what to do. It's so easy. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mr. Candela has spoken of compliance with the congressional agreement. He holds a different thesis than mine. I will not repeat the arguments already used. It's also against everything, it's not very constructive. The Twenty-eight are a disaster and it also makes the approach that other speakers made about the autonomous communities and local corporations, who want to help, which I appreciate. Mr Garzón says that Europe is a terrible place; he will explain to us what his model is. Well, Europe is a terrible place where they live, animatedly on occasion, with greater difficulties in others, socialists, liberals, conservatives and even people with an ideology close to theirs, which then, when they are there, and we have a very clear example, they are going to realize what the reality of life is like. It's one thing to talk and good wishes and good intentions, which are important because without good wishes and good intentions you don't go anywhere, and another thing is to know how to turn those good wishes and good intentions into reality, because if you don't stay in anything and that, in the end, generates quite frustration. I insist, I do not agree with anything you have said, Mr Garzón, about the European Union. I think it is the geographical space of the best world, because it has freedom, it has democracy, it has human rights, it has a state of well-being, it has progress and people are cared for much better than anywhere else on the planet, infinitely better. Now, if you want to continue with those approaches, you have a perfect right to do so. [[Applauds]] Nor does the representative of Bildu have a very exciting concept of Europe. Besides, he wants the border to be opened to everyone. It is a very respectable position, but I am in deep disagreement with the opening of the border to the whole world, and I believe that everyone here is also in deep disagreement with the opening of the border to the whole world. I really don't know anyone who agrees to open the border to everyone. Imagine what could happen if that happened. Mr Alli, you have made reference to many of the issues that have been discussed this morning, the Syrian issue, the Eritrean issue. He has asked for the criterion of Acnur and Unicef to be taken into account, no doubt two associations that carry out a work worthy of praise, because they do not just think, that is the easy thing, because to think does anyone, but then it is better to work, to hang, to be constructive and to agree with everyone who wants to row in the same direction. I agree that the problems of origin at the end are the decisive ones, I have already repeated it on several occasions throughout this morning, and it is certainly worrying, probably the most worrying because it affects the soul and the feelings, see the images of children on television. Mr Martínez Oblanca has started his speech by saying something that is an enormous truth, that Spain's position is not contradictory to what we have done in these years. Of course it is not contradictory, what we defended the other day at the European Council is something very similar to what the governments that preceded us have defended, which, on the other hand, is reassuring. It would be tremendous if there was a radical change in a policy like this. Mrs Oramas has told us about the Canary Islands, about their land. She experienced the situation in 2006. I was in Arguineguin, south of the island of Gran Canaria and arrived a patera at that time. I was there spending a few days off and it's certainly impressive, shocking. That was then arranged through good agreements. I have recently been in Senegal to ratify those agreements which have served to avoid many misfortunes at that time and many loss of human life. I understand that you are well aware of the problem of immigration. There are many canaries in Cuba and Venezuela, and see how many Galicians there are in Cuba, Venezuela and Argentina. And in Uruguay, Mrs. Speaker of the Republican Left of Catalonia. This is the world. Sometimes they come and sometimes they go. The key is that we can do among all a world in which those who come and go will do it of their own accord and not by circumstances. [[Applauds]] I would like to thank the spokesman for the People's Group for his support and for his words. They're all very much on the line. It is a good thing that the Government, even if it is in office, has the support of 123 Members of Parliament. Less of a stone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's start the replica shift. First of all, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office, Mr Rajoy, I see you still have 123 seats, when they should be 122 because you have Mr Gómez de la Serna in the Joint Group. [[Applauds]] Your reasons will have to keep counting on that character. It is true that you have a complacent view of the European Union, of European construction. I, too, am calling for European integration, but that does not exempt us, Mr Rajoy, from having a critical view of the issues being raised by the European Council - other than the Community institutions such as the European Commission or the European Parliament - in relation to refugees, especially when Acnur, the United Nations, NGOs and people of great importance associated with refugee policy have been denouncing the European Council's policy in this area. You say that it is very difficult, but what is missing is the political will on the part of the Spanish Government. I repeat, in the area of resettlement there are 1,449 refugees waiting - that is the commitment of the Government of Spain - to be resettled in our country. You've met zero, there's none. There are only 18 relocations. This contrasts with the true will of many autonomous communities and municipalities that they want to materialize the solidarity expressed by many Spanish and Spanish in the squares of our cities over the past few months. Do not give many lessons on international solidarity because your Government, Mr Rajoy, has cut official development aid by 70% in the last parliamentary term and humanitarian aid by more than 80%. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] So it's not that it's a matter of difficulty, it's that it's a question of lack of political will. So much so that in safeguarding the individualised treatment of asylum policies, Frontex has called on Member States to send around 2,500 professionals to Greece to help the Greek Government deal with this individualised treatment. Do you know how many officials have sent Spain out of those 2,500 that Frontex has requested to the whole of the European Union? Only four, Mr. Rajoy, only four. This is the question, not the difficulty, but the lack of political will. That is why I reaffirm my commitment that Spain will become a host country as soon as that government of change materializes. Mr. Rajoy, you're not reliable, either in or out. He has talked about the public deficit and I have to remind him that in February you said publicly - the Minister of Finance also said - that the public deficit in 2015 had been 4.2%. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, you said 4.2%, there are your statements and you even told me in private. Today we are above 5% of gross domestic product. You, Mr Rajoy, have shown for the past four years that you are not good managers of the public. On the contrary, they have been neither efficient nor supportive in that economic policy. Social security. I warned you in the debate on the State General Budgets of the last parliamentary term that there was going to be a public social security deficit of 15 billion euros and you denied it. Today we have a social security deficit of 15 billion euros. In addition, unfortunately you inherited in 2011 a Social Security Reserve Fund of 70 billion euros and will leave a legacy of 30 billion euros. Unlike the previous government, which did not touch a cent of euro from the pension fund, you have only wasted it. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, I am not going to talk about public debt, with an increase of EUR 300 billion. I'm going to talk about the deficit of the autonomous communities. Mr Rajoy, Mr Montoro, you have tried to point out to the Autonomous Communities that they are responsible for the deviation of the public deficit. And I tell you one thing: coming from you, lessons from the fair because between 2011 and 2015 the 0.7% increase in the public deficit has occurred in the sum between the General Administration of the State and Social Security, while in the autonomous communities during these last four years of their legislature, Mr Rajoy, Mr Montoro, has decreased by 3.46% of the gross domestic product. Moreover, you have committed the indecency - the indecency - to say, through the minister of health in office, that you were not going to compute as expenditure and as deficit the treatment of the patients of Hepatitis C and you, right now, what you are saying is that there is a deviation from the public deficit as a result of which you compute that expenditure that you had committed that would not compute as such. So, Mr Rajoy, Mr Montoro, just lessons in economic policy. Its economic policy has been to increase taxes by more than 50 years, increase public debt and cut social spending over the past four years. I mean, this is like you tell a family to increase their income, lower their spending, and get more debt. What is the unknown of this equation, Mr. Montoro, Mr. Rajoy? [[The Minister for Finance and Public Administrations in office pronounces words that are not perceived]] Of course, it is the rescue of Bankia, Mr Montoro, a rescue that has cost the Spanish €46 billion. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Yes sir, yes sir. After knowing - and with this I conclude, Madam President - the deviation from the public deficit, which is above 5%; after reaffirming, as I say, Mr Rajoy, that you are not a trusted partner either within or outside these borders - as the European Commission has told you in these months, when you presented the State General Budget for this year - I will tell you that this delicate situation of public accounts reaffirms me - and so I ask the whole of Parliament's forces in this House - in which we put the government of change in place, because we cannot leave the necessary balance of public accounts in which you have cut social policies while taxing your dear colleagues Barcenas and Granados. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u46	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. For the Podemos Group, Mr Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, I cannot but commend the tone of your speech today. It's been a sober tone and I'd even say a nice tone. That is not bad in view of the rift that sometimes exists in the parliamentary seat, the problem is that you are not paid for being nice, Mr Rajoy, and there is a huge contrast between your tone and reality. The good tone is fine, but although the papers endure everything, even though the tone endures everything, the reality that millions of citizens see every day on their televisions is that there are Syrian refugees who are being treated like cattle. That is what all citizens are seeing and it is a shame, despite the good tone. The reality is that we have seen Turkish police shooting Syrian refugees and we do not have to go back to the battle of Lepanto, we simply have to see the reality. The reality, despite the good tone, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, is that in Spain there are only 18 refugees, when some of the municipalities of change have not tired of repeating to you that they have the infrastructures and the will necessary for our country to accommodate the refugees. [[Applauds]] Mr. Mariano Rajoy, you have spoken about Europe and its successes, you have spoken about per capita income and the welfare state; that problem is that that is exactly what you are destroying. The policies and policies of their European friends, to which they contribute, are to increase inequality in Europe and to make social cuts make those very social rights, which are the heritage of Europe's identity, either become wet or even worse, a memory of the past. That is why what is happening in Europe is happening, and that is why, Mr Mariano Rajoy, this House of Members does not look like the House of Members that was elected four years ago, precisely because you are responsible for destroying much of the foundations of Europe. I do not think it is to quote any radical to say that Caritas has pointed out that the European Union's agreement with Turkey is the scandalous colophon of the merchants' agreement. His tone has contrasted with that of his spokesman. - Rafa Hernando seemed rather John of Austria from this rostrum commanding the Spanish ships in the battle of Lepanto against the Turkish. It has begun its intervention by mixing the refugee issue with the fight against jihadist terrorism and by using it to tell us that we are entering that pact. Let me remind you that yesterday your spokesman in the Internal Commission praised the institutional loyalty and legal rigour of Podemos dealing with internal issues. Institutional loyalty to fight terrorism will always be yours. To cut freedoms and bomb countries that later produce refugees, not Mr Rajoy and Mr Hernando. [[Applauds]] Lessons on human rights, it is not that the law violates human rights in Spain. That is why, Mr Sánchez, agreements should be reached to effectively repeal the law that violates human rights. It was the OSCE that said that the assaults of police officers ordered by its Minister of the Interior affected human rights, and it was the European Court of Human Rights that sentenced Spain up to four times. There will be some things, Mr President-in-Office, that we can do better. Mr Rivera's speech has coincided in many respects with his. You have set the right tone and Mr. Rivera has done an exercise in ideological sister-in-law. The same goes for selling preference rather than intervening in a rostrum: crutches, common places, peregrulls and rancid topics. On this occasion Mr Rivera explained to us that he studied in Barcelona and Helsinki and that this served him to distinguish between migration policy and asylum policy. Of course!, and so it is justified that your political formation does not want to give the health card to those without papers. What we are discussing here today, Brother-in-law Rivera, is human rights. [[Applauds]] That's what we're talking about here. [[The Lord]] And human rights, Mr Rivera, do not distinguish between those who flee from poverty and those who flee from war. Brother-in-law dictates: the extreme right is wrong. Who ran for European elections with an extreme right-wing party called Freedom? You, Mr. Rivera. [[Applauds]] Brother-in-law dictates - I am finishing - that we must protect those who flee from war. You, Mr Rivera, were the one who most enthusiastically defended NATO's bombing of Syria following the Paris bombings. So, do not say that it is necessary to protect those who flee from war when precisely their irresponsibility in foreign policy leads him to align himself with Mr Aznar, that of the trio of the Azores. It is these policies that have caused many people to flee the war. Not everything is solved with sister-in-law, Mr. Rivera. Ladies and gentlemen, the papers stand for everything. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all able to fill ourselves with beautiful words, but there is a huge contrast between the papers and the words and the facts. That is why, Mr Sánchez, we will lend our hand to make a progressive government that is not based on good words or papers, but on facts and guarantees. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, three brief questions in these five minutes. First of all, with regard to Brexit, you have not told the truth in this rostrum. We ask you to come and explain about that European Council. You didn't ask for it. They didn't come. It is registered, it is in the register, there is a request from the parliamentary groups because you did not want to come to explain it even after that European Council. Furthermore, Mr Rajoy, a government in office has to pass through the House before making decisions on something as important as the possible departure from the United Kingdom from the European Union. He didn't come before or want to come after. And you spoke here today not because you want to, but because the groups in this House so ask. Because the Legislative Power, even if you think it's a lie, is not the same as the Executive Power. Second. With regard to Europe's strategy, you say that we agree on many things. I agree that I want to live, like you, in the United States of Europe or in the European Union. But I tell you one thing: with passive attitudes like those that you have maintained in some matters, we would still be in the Economic Community of Coal and Steel. We would still be there, because if Europe had not had leaders who, at one point, faced with a supposed unanimity, raised their hands and said: I do not agree, I think that we must move forward and go for more things in common, Europe would remain that, an economic community and not a political project. I do not disagree with you that we want to live in Europe and that in Europe we live better than in other places - that is, they are common places - the difference is what Europe wants and if we are willing to go to a European Council and say that in that we do not agree or take the floor and propose something different. If everyone is guided by unanimity... I am convinced that your leadership model is delighted with the unanimity model, because that allows you not to have to get wet, say anything or make decisions. Now, I think it is better that Spain, which is the fourth nation of Europe in economic and political terms, has an active position in the construction of this project. That is where we disagree; not in the current project, but in what we want to be or whether we want Europe to lose common policies. Third point. I would also like the Presidents and Prime Ministers to respect the resolutions of the European Parliament at the European Councils. When you meet at the European Council - you are domestic leaders, local leaders of different countries - you do not respond to the resolutions adopted by the European Parliament. I know that the European Council also legislates, but does not it also legislate the European Parliament? do we not want a future with a European Parliament that controls a future government of Europe and that countries lose leadership in the face of Community policy? do we want to go back to European nations that have nothing in common? do we want to go back to the early twentieth century or do we want a United States of Europe? On the other hand, Mr Rajoy, with regard to the deficit problem, it is not that more has been fired than thought - that too - the problem is that you went to elections and approved budgets before you touched. He did so by taking advantage of that majority to increase what is now a hole that future governments will have to solve. Therefore, it is an irresponsibility to hide or say that you will fulfill when you do not comply, but it is also an irresponsibility to leave an inheritance. You rightly complained about Mr Zapatero's legacy, because he left him with a politically and economically poisoned legacy. Please do not defend that leaving an inheritance to the future government is the opposite of what Mr Zapatero did. You have done the same: failing to meet the deficit, not doing the courageous democratic and political reforms that had to be done, and now we will have to make adjustments. I know that you prefer to raise the IRPF to the Spanish, I know that; I prefer to suppress the deputies or not to make tax amnesties. [[Applauds]] Another economic point in which you have missed the truth or hidden it, Mr Rajoy, is that the Social Security box is in the bones, it's shaking. The Social Security box with its mandate has been halved. There is less collection for contributions and that puts the future of pensions at risk. We must therefore reform the economic, productive and labour model in order to create quality employment, not just waste employment, because in the end we have the same contributors and we have less collection, so do not cheat; there is evidence that you have emptied the Social Security box - it is very important - you have managed to reduce it. With regard to human rights, we must comply with what we have signed. We have signed international conventions that oblige us to position ourselves, and I believe that in the future Spain deserves a Government that is committed to international conventions. Mr Rajoy, we agree that Europe is a place where we live well, but it is also a place where we want human rights to be defended and not outsourced. We agree that this Parliament must be held accountable for what a government is doing in office, and we want you to assume that mandate so that you have time. Finally, about what Mr Hernando was saying about how we sat down to talk to Mr Pablo Iglesias about that money, about the 7.2 million euros they received from the Chavista regime for the foundation where they taught, I tell you, Mr Hernando, that we also sit down with you who are accused of the Gürtel Señor Hernando case, vetoing people, as Mr Iglesias and you have done, we are not going to get anywhere. Spain has given us a mandate, we must try to form Government; if you, Mr. Iglesias or I blame ourselves for everything we do not share, here there will never be a way to form Government. Put it in his head. So let's lower the tone a little bit, and not talk so much about brother-in-laws, Mr. Iglesias, because maybe brother-in-law is putting friends, family and girlfriends in the places. [[Applauds]] In any case, Mr. Iglesias, I deeply respect that you defend the ideas that you defend - in fact, I think we all have to agree during this parliamentary term on important matters - but lessons from human rights, from friendship, from plugging or from sister-in-law, none. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u50	Thank you, Mr. Rivera. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Surra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u51	Mr Rajoy, you have not responded at all to what I have spoken, you have only tried to disqualify me without going into my arguments. I did not say that the Members here did not know what they were talking about, I said that you did not know what you were talking about. [[Applauds]] But that's what we're used to, you don't know what you're talking about when you talk about refugees, immigrants, unemployed people, pensions; in short, you're used to not knowing what you're talking about in all the things that are going on. As for him to boast of Spain and who is very happy about it because I am living here today, it seems to me that he did not hear or understand well what I said. I left Uruguay in 1972, I left Chile in 1973, I entered Belgium in 1974 and I finished in France in 1975. If I had come to Spain at that time, when there was a dictatorship that lasted from 1939 to 1979, I would have been imprisoned, I would have been repatriated to Uruguay and, at best, I would have been imprisoned in my country. I did not come to Spain to seek refuge; I turned, when the Uruguayan people managed to defeat the dictatorship in 1985, from France to Uruguay and thought to live there quietly until the end of my days, but here in Barcelona my grandson was born and I came to Barcelona to live my grandson. But, being in Barcelona, thanks to you I have adhered to independence; you have given me arguments to be in Catalan independence today and there is no social break, as you say. We live quietly in peace and what we want is a better country for our children and grandchildren, and we are all going to get it together. The only difference between Catalonia and Spain in the sense you mean is that the People's Party there is insignificant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Surra. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Homs has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen - I cannot resist the comment - it seems that we are closer to an electoral debate today than to what was on the agenda; this is the feeling that gives, among some arguments of great pride - right, Don Rafael Hernando? - and that which is also predicted as summits similar to a blue dog, which can be even more complicated than those held and told us by Mr Rajoy. Similarly, if Mr Rajoy joins tomorrow's summit - with that experience that he has told us and that I have obviously never been able to live, as he has reminded us - he finds the light in these circumstances in which some are inclined to stay. With regard to your answers, which I appreciate, I will make some very telegraphic comments, for the time I have. You have literally said - I have taken precise note, Mr Rajoy - that you were not aware of having breached the mandate of this House. Hey, does it ring a bell or doesn't it ring a bell? Because it seems that in the face of any accusation or finding of something that does not work, for example, the papers of Barcenas, you always answer us: I am not aware that this happened, that this happened, that this happened. The usual answer and I think it might have been a little bit more self-critical than what you have presented to us here today. I was wondering how I support my arguments about its weight in the European Union. It is that there are cabasses, which we say in Catalonia; not a few. I insist, for example, on the report published three years ago by the Elcano Foundation. It says: Spain is not well placed today to shape the future economic and monetary union or political union, and seems unable to lead almost any development of European foreign policy. I do not say this, says a report by the Elcano Foundation and, in my view, this is a living expression of the one who does not paint anything in the European context, or at least of the one who should paint according to his capacity, his size and his possibilities, as is also acknowledged in this report which I quoted. By the way, now that I see that Mr De Guindos is here, that has not answered me, because you had an agreement by which you had made many concessions of every kind and every order. From there this has not been achieved and I say this to symbolize and to specify to what extent you do not paint anything in the European context, at least in my way of view. As for the deficit, look, I sincerely ask you here what you claim for yourself, Mr Rajoy, which is moderation and prudence, because if in anything you have not acted in a moderate and prudent way it is precisely with the issue of deficit. And he's talking to someone who was in a government until recently, who has done, as you well know, remarkable efforts and something else in relation to the deficit. But if in Catalonia it has not been possible to meet the deficit targets, which, by the way, you were imposing, and by the way, apart from the Budget Stability Act that was adopted in this House, it has been because of responsibility for your decisions, not because of a lack of willingness to comply or because of a lack of possibilities to comply. Do a test sometime if you dare, let Catalonia collect taxes and see how the deficit and deficit targets, even those that are not fair, are met more and more. [[Applauds]] You will also see how there are also transfers of solidarity from Catalonia. So, look where the problem is: it's in your government, it's in your policies, it's in your decisions. I'm done, Mr. President. Do not be confused, Mr Rajoy, we, as you have accused me, do not speak ill of Spain; we do not speak ill of Spain when we go around the world, we simply speak of you, we speak of your Government, we speak of your policy. Of course, if from here someone comes to the conclusion that the things they do are not the right things, that they do not comply, that they are not reliable, it is not because of Spain or because of the consideration in which we have Spain, which is very high, but because you act exactly as you do, and we simply explain what you are, what you do and the commitments that you repeatedly fail to do. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u54	Thank you, Mr. Homs. I have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. I will be very brief, because the President-in-Office has not answered me extensively either. It has admitted to me some issues relating to the deficit and the economy, but I think it is important what it has said to me about the steel industry. We have no news of that letter and, therefore, I appreciate the gesture of offering to give it to us. I also say that we have asked for written information on how all these matters are going and have not yet received a reply, so we will be interested in receiving any further information on the matter as well. We do not know that letter and, therefore, forward, then deliver it to us. What has not made clear to me is whether you have contributed anything to the meeting on this issue and it seems that you have not. Well, he supported the writing that was in preparation for the Commission, but it doesn't look like he did. What I want to say to you is that in this matter you cannot send a letter - more or less in generic or more precise terms - and forget about it. France is not going to do it, it is going to be there every day talking about this issue, and that is what I am asking the Spanish Government to insist on over and over again on this issue. In this regard, if you want, need or understand that the cooperation of the Basque Government or my parliamentary group may be necessary, we will be delighted to help, to cooperate and to go hand in hand because I believe that this is an important matter and that it affects us all. With regard to refugees and Turkey, he said that it was about working together with Turkey to resolve the refugee problem. If that had been the case I can understand, I know that it is not a simple matter and that one of the parties involved is obviously Turkey because that is where the flow of refugees comes from. But they have not devoted themselves to working together to solve this problem that affects both, but have been brought about through matters that are in principle of the European Union, such as the granting of visas or the resumption of talks for Turkey's entry into the European Union. Surely, as I said, it is impossible to meet all the requirements - with all those missing - for the granting of visas by the end of this month, but you will tell me whether the Commission will have the courage to tell Turkey that it does not. No, we all know that it is not going to happen and that Europe is going to look elsewhere in its own rules. So, that was a problem. I must also refer to Mr Hernando. Don Rafael has expressly quoted me and I have not understood him. I want to ask you to see if you can specify more in your next speech, because you told me I'm from Bilbao, which is obvious - and I'm also from Athletic, because yes -... but look, Mr Rajoy has said something very important in his second speech that I think should be applied. He said literally: the topic should be documented. I'm saying it because I don't know exactly what he was accusing me of. I suppose that is what we in Bilbao are all about, but I believe that I have given data and I do not think that any can be denied: that responsibilities have been given to a third country, that Turkey is allowed to invade Syria, that Turkey can take refugees to Syria, that no safe routes have been created, that Greece does not have the capacity to manage what seems to be to be given to it, that we should do so from Greece and not send people to Turkey but jointly with European agencies. If this is from Bilbao... then yes, the Bilbaons like to say what we think but with objective data that we do not invent and believe can be done. Mr. Hernando is from Guadalajara, and with what I'm going to say now I don't want Mr. Echaniz to bother me - although he is from Valladolid he was councillor of Guadalajara City Council - neither Mrs. Miguel nor Mrs. Rodriguez nor Mrs. Valmaña, who are worthy representatives of Guadalajara. I have thought about this moment: I go to the Internet, which usually gives light, and I have seen on the page of the Autonomous University - I pass it later if you want - sayings of the Alcaria, and I have found one. This is as if I come here and without saying anything or making anything concrete - that is, without documenting the topic - I say: look, said of the Alcarria of some countrymen: 'For people cheating, Guadalajara, what they say at night nothing'. Well, it wouldn't have occurred to me, so please give me exactly what I was trying to criticize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u56	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has the floor to wind up the group's turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u57	Yes, Mr President, and without a precedent, I will speak only for allusions. Mr. Iglesias, I am not Don Juan of Austria nor are you Mother Teresa of Calcutta. I could have shown, when you had the opportunity to present to the Spanish the ministries I wanted to occupy, that all these social causes that you are so concerned about are sometimes those that should have led you to opt for the Ministries of Health, Social Affairs, Labour, perhaps Economics. However, they have not been their favorites, their favorites have been others: Interior, Defense, CNI, Television. Therefore, neither I am John of Austria nor you mother Teresa of Calcutta. I've noticed the nice little roll you have with Mr. Rivera, with whom I don't know if he's meeting tomorrow. I am sorry, Mr Rivera, that this bothers you, but it is that every time you come up to the rostrum you give us lessons from everything, even from the Rules of Procedure and how Parliament works. I thank you very much; I thank you for telling me and for showing me when to have to appear, what the Act establishing the Commission of the European Union says, but I regret to say that you are not right about this. The President has simply fulfilled his obligations, the Government has fulfilled his obligations and has appeared when he deems it appropriate. What I would simply ask is for you to give the same treatment that you give to us who are now your partners when you have talked about some issues of corruption. Look, corruption, really, they do know their partners in Andalusia, that they have the record of unemployment, corruption, cuts, higher taxes. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative signs.- Rumors]] They are the highest in Europe and you are already there, in that government. Therefore, the only thing I can criticize of you is the volubility it manifests when making some assertions and yet then comes here and defends other principles. Mr. Sanchez, I've heard you talk a lot about Bankia, and Bankia does know your lordship. You were at the general assembly, but it was also your Government that authorized Bankia's departure to the Stock Exchange; it was your Government that, through the National Securities Market Commission, allowed false data to be given to taxpayers; it was your Government that authorized through the Bank of Spain that operation, and it was your Government that allowed, by the way, some banks in this country to market, to cover other things, certain financial products such as the preferred ones, which have caused a lot of pain to many people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u58	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to the different approaches we have heard here from those who have just spoken. Firstly, because he was the first to intervene, I will answer Mr Sánchez's brilliant speech at the academic level - as all of you will have seen -. I will not discuss whether I have a complacent view of the European Union, but what I do say is that you see nothing good either in the European Union or in our country, and that is not good for someone with the responsibilities you have. He has once again spoken about a subject which I have already explained to the satisfaction of this speech, which shows an obvious imagination. I've been talking about resettlement, I've been talking about relocation, I've been talking about the autonomous communities. I have told you that this is a difficult procedure, that there have been no resettlements in the European Union - neither in Spain nor in the other countries - and that the relocation barely reaches a thousand people. We intended to do a pilot experience and could not do so because of the poor functioning of the hotspots and because those who had to comply with obligations did not do so. On the other hand, I have to say that the statement you made here in the House about Spain's contribution to Frontex is absolutely false. In 2015 Spain contributed 372 people, being the Member State that contributed the most. [[Rumors]] How can you stand in this House and say that we have contributed four people, when all the official figures and all the actual facts state exactly the opposite of what you have said? Your Honor, 372 people. The least you can do is come up with the lesson prepared, or if someone sends you a role below, tell them to send you the papers right, because if you don't run the risk of doing the ridiculous. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, at this point in my life I already accept everything, but lessons from the public deficit or the evolution of a country's economy cannot accept them. We have reduced the public deficit four points in four years, in two years with economic recession. When we arrived at the government the deviation was 30 billion euros. Spain was about to break, it was under the threat of a rescue from which we came out with enormous difficulties. There had been a widespread decline in all income. You'll have to agree with me that something has changed things. I have explained to you before, today's inflation is not yesterday's, nor that of the public deficit, nor the situation of the external sector. And what about economic growth? Today we are the largest country in the European Union, which grew the most last year, 3.5% in the last quarter of the annual rate. When I arrived in 2011 it was at least 1.8. You don't have anything to say about that? What about the unemployment situation? Which is the most paradigmatic case I'm saying. Clearly, things still have to improve. I have presented myself to the elections saying that I believe that in the next four years we have to create - and that can be done - in Spanish society two million jobs - and they are needed - but that is that when I arrived, employment was destroyed at the rate of 10% per annum and now employment was created at the rate of 8% per annum. You cannot make these statements with that joy. But how are you capable? I'm worried, but what I'd be most worried about would be to believe the statements you've made, that's what I'd be most worried about. But, well, I'm absolutely convinced that you don't believe it, so I don't have that problem anymore. [[Applauds]] Mr. Churches, you can give data, indeed. We've seen dramatic images on television. Normally on television - it's probably a law of life and it's inevitable - you don't see the best things, but I think things are getting better, that we now have a procedure. I think that the number of people who were coming to play Turkey's life to Greece is going to fall, and I think that we will soon start resettlements of people who are in Syria and who are going to come to the European Union with their corresponding right of asylum precisely because they have the right. I agree with what you said about resettlement and relocation. We've only relocated 18 people, but we've tried to relocate more. The first forecast was to bring in 50 people, but it was not possible, because this procedure is not easy and there we were not to blame for having brought in 50. I hope that this year things will improve and that we can present ourselves in a different way. I have also heard him talk about the municipalities of change and those of non-change and also of the autonomous communities, and I have already expressed my position on this earlier. There is one issue that is particularly interesting to me and you have brought it here today, which is that of social cuts in Spain and Europe. I do not have the European data here, but, curiously, speaking of the deficit, I have the data from Spain. In 2007, Spain's public spending was 420 billion and in 2016, an additional 68 billion. Of those, 50,000 are for social protection. There are items in the budget that are lower today than in 2007. For example, defence; public order is about hundreds of millions more; for example, economic affairs; for example, environmental protection; for example, a game called leisure and culture. However, the largest increase in Spain since 2007 is social protection; the public expenditure we spend on social protection in Spain is 293,372 million euros compared to 174 billion euros in total. 65% of the expenditure made by public administrations in Spain - and it makes sense, on the other hand, because there are the major basic public services, such as dependency, social services and pensions - is social expenditure. What I want to say is that at a time of extreme difficulty, at a time when we have experienced the worst economic crisis that our country has experienced in decades, at a time when collection has also fallen, the only departure that has risen significantly was that of social protection. Undoubtedly, if you are dedicated to looking for things that are wrong - as I used to say to another of the interveners - I could help you; no doubt, there are many. But it is also appropriate to be balanced when making the trial. That things can be done much better? Without a doubt, it is also important to have a spirit of improvement, but I, what I will always refuse to do is to have a trial - not for you, too, but for many others here and out of here - that Spain is little less than a fifth country. Because it's not, like I've been trying to prove here this morning. Mr Rivera is right that I did not come here to talk about Brexit, but I came here today and talked about it, and before, during the debate, as he pointed out earlier this morning, the Foreign Minister appeared. I disagree when he says that Spain has had a passive attitude. That is a very good statement, but it must be documented. I have fought for the banking union together with Italy, and we stopped in mid-2012 the first time a European Council. I am constantly making approaches to economic union. I think there's still a lot to do. We have worked to advance the energy union, capital for our country. I have asked for a European budget, I have asked for it in writing - what happens is that there are others who do not agree -; I have also asked for a European Finance Minister and I have asked for debt to be pooled, but there are many other countries that do not agree. You speak of the European Parliament. I think we have to go to political union, but this is not a process that can be done in a quarter of an hour; as you know, this process began many years ago. It has had milestones; probably the most important is the creation of the single currency, but there are still many countries - nine - that are not part of it. Therefore, I cannot share your assertion that we have not put forward initiatives; we have done so. In a situation of enormous difficulty - such as arriving, as happened in 2012, with a public deficit of 9%, with a widespread threat for us to accept a rescue that would have involved the liquidation of Spanish sovereignty, at least in economic matters - it was not easy to do all these things at the same time. In any case, the important thing is what we will be able to put forward in the future, and I certainly believe - I would be absolutely unable to say when it can be produced - that Europe has to make a significant advance and arrive at a formula of greater integration than it currently exists, but think that that is in the European genes themselves, because it started with six countries - at first the common policies were nothing - we are now twenty-eight and we will see how we continue in the future. You said I approved the budget out of time. It is a good thing that I thought of presenting the budget in this House, because you should see how we would be here if we didn't have it. [[Applauds]] As for the inheritance I will leave, with your permission I have to say that for the moment I have no interest in naming heir. It is true that it is not just up to me, but leaving a country - which was in economic recession and with negative growth - with the evolution that has taken place in job creation in recent years, I think it is positive data. Macroeconomic imbalances have been corrected, although there are some things in which we will have to be particularly careful in the coming years: we have to lower the level of public debt over GDP, we have to continue with the decline in the public deficit and we have to continue making reforms. But it is not fair for you to tell me that I have not made reforms or that my Government has not made reforms. It is true that we have not liquidated the seats, but it is that I am in favour of the seats - it does not make sense - that I was president of one of them and I know the positive aspects they have. That is EUR 6 billion of expenditure; we have saved much more with the reforms we have put in place in the administration than with that. In any case, some reforms have been made: the Budget Stability Act is a reform that is not bad; the labor reform - now it seems that they will change it -; we have also made the reform of the energy system - we had a tariff deficit, as you know, of 27 billion -; we have put in place the reform of the market unit; the Lomce - it seems that they also want to liquidate it -; we have started the reform of the Administration; we have made a reform of the Entrepreneurs Act; we have also made a tax reform - we will have to do another in the future - but you talk about taxes, of IRPF. I want to bring them down - we dropped them in 2015 - but in the pact you signed with those gentlemen do not come down. [[Laughter]] There's a little problem. Anyway, there are so many things in life that can be rectified that there is no reason for that to happen exactly the same thing. On the other hand, it has set some examples of vetoes that are very illustrative, but there is one that is fantastic. This gentleman doesn't want to talk to me, as you well know. That's a veto, but a veto of the big ones. I mean him, not you. To the representative of the Republican Left of Catalonia, I'm only going to say one thing. Believe me, I'm not trying to disqualify her. You know why? Because there's no need. [[Laughter]] As for Mr Homs, neither I nor anyone in my government will go to any chancellery to speak ill of you, never. If you speak ill of the Government of Spain is in your right, but I will never speak ill of you nor of course of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. We don't talk about papers better because it doesn't make any sense and I don't think we're going to get anything concrete. As for everything else, you talk about the deficit. I have not told you about the deficit of the autonomous communities. I said I don't blame him, I even said he's halved, some more than others. You could talk about the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, you could talk about who pays the suppliers, who pays the debt dues, the markets, how one can finance some administrations and others not... It's that there's something in life that's very easy and that's probably very fun, that's: I don't have the fault of anything and the fault always has the other. When you're in a government, you'll have something to blame, some responsibility. Otherwise, untie yourself, because if you're not to blame for anything we all end up having a problem. Therefore, I cannot share that curious procedure of not taking any responsibility and blaming everyone else. Mr. Esteban, as far as the steel industry is concerned, then I'll move it to you, I've got it here. He raised Turkey's issues, visas and enlargement. I believe that the issue of visas should be on the one hand, that of enlargement on the other, and this issue which is on the other hand different. In any case, some things should be said. Negotiations with Turkey will only be concluded when the Copenhagen criteria are met. You know that the European Council in Copenhagen in 1993 laid down criteria which were then completed precisely here in 1995. These include the requirement for stable institutions that guarantee democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and respect for and protection of minorities. Fifteen negotiating chapters have now been opened with Turkey. There is only one closed - what happens is that we have to close them all -, the chapter that closed already years ago, in the year 2006 - this negotiation is not from now, it is from now on - which was that of science and research. This semester the 33rd will be opened, which is about financial and budgetary provisions. Then there are more complicated ones, there are five or six, but the most important is the 23, Judicial power and fundamental rights, and the 24, freedom, security and justice. Now, there's a data. When these things are being negotiated and discussed, the other side can also be urged to work in the right direction. Therefore, this is a subject that is there. It is true that it is now intended to be given, in the terms I have just expressed, greater speed, but it is not easy, but very complex. Turkey would become the first country in the European Union in terms of the number of inhabitants and therefore in terms of the number of votes, and everyone sees it as they want to see it. The issue of visas is also not from now on, because I do not remember it now, but I believe that two or three years ago we talked about this again. You have to meet all the requirements and, as you know, this will take your time, but all the operations we're running take your time. It takes time to strengthen border control, the policy of Turkish visas with those of other countries, the readmission of third-country nationals and all the issues of resettlement, which are going to be the most complex, because it is about political refugees coming directly from Turkey or even from Syria itself. In the rest, about Bilbao and so on, we're not going to go into any more details. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. It concludes this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u61	We turn to the debate on the proposal made by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos, Esquerra Republicana, Catalán, Vasco y Mixto, for an approach of conflict of powers between the Congress of Deputies and the Government of the nation as a result of the invasion of the powers of the House produced by the decision of the Government not to submit to the function of control of the action of the Government, which was communicated by the Office of the Ministry of the Presidency of 10/03/2016. [[Democracy and Freedom]] [[EAJ-PNV]] For the defence of the proposal, Mr Hernando has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish we had never included this item on the agenda of this sitting, and not precisely for the time to be discussed. Today is the day of Parliament's dignity, because the majority of us are defending Parliament and democracy, and it is a bad day, I sincerely believe, for the government and for the People's Party. A conflict between constitutional bodies is not usual. There have been two since 1978, and possibly this will be the first to prosper. We boost this conflict of constitutional powers seven parliamentary groups that we represent ten parties, 225 deputies, 65% of the House, virtually all parties represented in this House that did not appear on the lists of the People's Party at the last elections. Ask yourself why the vast majority of the House has subscribed to this initiative. Why so diverse political parties and with so different ideologies have we agreed on this initiative. The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is because what unites us today is very important. What unites us all in this imaginary line that today separates both parts of the Chamber, what unites the majority is that we are defending the Congress of Deputies, that we are defending democracy and you are defending a government made up of members of the People's Party. We are defending the separation of powers, our work of representation and control. We are defending the essence of Parliament and you are defending that your party's ministers do not report to Parliament on their government actions. [[Applauds]] This conflict between constitutional bodies has been pushed by the Government through the incomparence, first of all, of the Minister of Defence, yesterday, of the Minister of Development and, tomorrow, of the Minister of the Interior. It is true that it was already announced to us on 10 March, through an office addressed to the President of the House in which he said that they were not going to come to the House because the Government in office could not submit to the control initiatives. The last three lines of that writing have no waste. They say: In the event of a discrepancy with the Government's view, I remember V.E. which would have the appropriate legal remedies to resolve it. End of date. Speaking of silver, it is the government that throws a challenger into Congress: we see each other in the courts. I would only have missed that of: you do not know who you are talking to, which is so typical of those who believe they are above the law or beyond good and evil. The Government's decision is supported by a note that is made by the Government itself and that, by the way, bears a letterhead but does not sign anyone. It is known that the Aranzadi brigade has not been able to sign as such. He says that the government cannot be controlled, with a report that has been made by the government: I like it, I eat it. Honestly, the author or intellectual authors of this peculiar theory have not valued its significance. The rebellion declared by the Government calls into question the foundation of the constitutional system itself that we gave ourselves thirty-eight years ago. We're not here for mere legal puncturing. No, it's not that. We are here because the issue underlying the Government's refusal to report and control is the breach of the law and the Constitution and the violation of the democratic functioning of the institutions and the exercise of all public power, which is based on accountability. It is not just the law, it is democracy itself that we intend to defend with this initiative. What we are talking about here today is the control of political power and the participation of representatives of sovereignty in that control. Two essential elements of representative democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy has been demonstrated throughout history as the ideal system to ensure the representation of citizens and to control political power, which the classics identified as avoiding tyranny. The common substrate of the evolution of democracy throughout history is that, in contrast to despotism, all political power is exercised by the delegation of its holder and sovereign, who is the people, and therefore must be able to be controlled by the people. In the words of Locke, any legitimate authority arises from the consent of the people, is exercised by delegation and is subject to restrictions. We represent the Spanish people here and, whether they like it or not, we are not in office. We have the right and obligation to control the Government in its functions, be they more or less limited. This need for any system of government to control the exercise of political power, and more specifically of the Executive, is inextricably linked to modern and contemporary parliamentaryism. As I said before, along with the idea of political control, the other concept of the essence of democracy is the participation of citizens through their representatives, us. The first article of our Constitution proclaims that national sovereignty resides in the people, from which all the powers of the State emanate. The first article of the title dedicated to the General Courts, article 66, states that the Courts represent the Spanish people and therefore the holder of sovereignty. In other words, in the representative democracy that we have in Spain, the subject who holds the representation of sovereignty is the General Courts and the powers attributed to the Courts are precisely because of that representative character and not because of any fiduciary relationship between the Government and the House. Therefore, the control of the Government's action is not based on the relationship of trust between the House and the Government, but on the representation that both Houses have of the people, which is the holder of sovereignty. That trust link which you constantly welcome - which no longer exists, it is true - does not give the Government the right to prevent control, because one of the guarantees of the principle of democratic representation is that governments are at the service of the governed and have an obligation to control them. When a member of the Government informs the Courts of any matter, he is doing so more than before the House which voted for his investiture or endorsed the investiture of the President, before the House which represents the citizens, because from them all the powers of the State emanate. When the Government refuses to appear and report, to be controlled, it is not undermining the rights of each of the Members present here, it is undermining the principle and concept of popular sovereignty, it is undermining the status of the Spanish and Spanish citizens, since by depriving us - their representatives - of the ability to control the Government on their behalf, it is depriving them of the exercise, through us, of their capacity to participate in the management and control of public affairs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that contempt also affects those who voted for them because, despite what they have said, parliamentary control is exercised by all groups and does so with respect to the Government and not with respect to a certain majority or minority. The representation of sovereignty in parliamentary chambers and the limitation of power are essential elements of the system and do not lapse because the Government is in office, but in any case they are subject to the control of those limited functions or those which could be extraordinarily exercised or could be exercised by the Government in office. In other words, democracy is not suspended because the Government is in office. When the Government protests that there is no precedent for the parliamentary control of a functioning Government following elections, it does not realize how much things and the situation have changed since the elections on 20 December. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, things have changed, and it is better to adapt quickly to the changes, to assume them and to act accordingly because, otherwise, in this process, in this new time, they are going to be more alone than one, as they are today. [[Applauds]] The absence of precedents in this kind of control cannot be the reason why this House does not want to control the Government because we would be setting a new precedent, a precedent that also repugnants the democratic system, and is that the Government refuses to appear and respond to the Chambers, which represent popular sovereignty. Nor is it acceptable for the Government to decide whether to appear or not; Mr Rajoy has done so today, the Foreign Minister did it the other day, but the Minister for Development does not want to, the Minister for the Interior neither and the Minister who is not going to want to. So, to the letter. And on top of that, yesterday they are justified by saying that they will come or not depending on what Mr Rajoy considers to be common sense. I do not know why it gives me that the common sense of the President does not coincide with the common sense of the citizens and not with the common sense of the majority of Members of this House. [[Applauds]] They don't understand anything. Control cannot depend on the decision of the Government. Has the government believed that this is a menu, in which it accepts dishes that it likes and rejects those that displease it? No, ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we find out. It is the government that responds to Parliament, not the other way around. It is therefore this Parliament that decides when, how and who comes from the government. The point is that this government never liked control and has shown it to us throughout the entire legislature. Mr Rajoy is the president of the government in democracy who has left more than 100 outstanding appearances. There is one constitutionalist who came to say that the most important task of the distinguished spokesman of the majority group was to avoid Tuesday after Tuesday the appearance of the President of the Government, and the truth is that he did so very effectively, also with an absolute majority. The minister responsible for relations with the Courts appeared once in four years in the Commission which was responsible for it and already, in the last year of the legislature, five ministers have not come to their respective committees on any occasion, but they no longer have the mockery of the absolute majority. However, they have taken one more step, based on the unbridled premise that once the absolute majority of the PP is extinguished, as there is no confidence, they do not have to report to the House that does not represent this government, so the government cannot respond to Congress. There's no such relationship of trust anymore. The thesis is, ladies and gentlemen, the next. The government says: without an absolute majority that represents me and defends me I do not come here for what can happen. [[Laughter]] It is aberrant, absurd and, in our view, clearly lacking legal and doctrinal support. In view of this attitude, the decision of the House I believe is the correct one, and is to propose this conflict of powers between the Congress of Deputies and the Government of the nation as a result of the invasion of the powers of the House produced by the decision of the Government not to appear - first, of the Minister of Defence; then, of the Minister of Development; tomorrow it will be of the Minister of the Interior - as we were previously announced in that office on 10 March. This conflict has to be brought before the Constitutional Court, but, obviously, first of all, the Government must be formally required to cease the improper assumption of powers and to submit itself to the control we ask for. To invite this Government to rectify in order to avoid the conflict of powers would only lead us to melancholy. This Government has repeatedly shown that it does not voluntarily rectify. It comes when there is no more remedy because it would be a scandal that did not come and Mr Rajoy has shown us today, but let us not be fooled, nor will you submit to the control questions nor will you allow a normal exercise of control on the part of the House, unless, suddenly, you or the President of the Government are attacked with common sense and surprise us. Improbable, but let's see. That is why I know that the best thing we can do is to choose as soon as possible a government that does what Mr Rajoy and his government, his ministers, so dislikes, is to submit to the control of the House with normality and to accept the rules of democracy also with normality. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. As no one has requested the use of the counter turn, we move on to the position-fixing turn, starting with the Joint Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are in a new time, and I am not referring to what has been said in baptizing the second transition, which, by the way, lacks all the dialogue and wisdom that the real transition has had. We are in a new time when almost surreal, unpublished and incredible things are happening in this House. That a government repeatedly refuses to appear before this House on the grounds that it is in office seems, at least, a joke of bad taste. The same expression says, it is in function, not on vacation, which literally means tasks that it is for an institution or entity or its organs or persons to perform. And as long as there is no new Government, the least that can be demanded of the present - as the law provides - is that it fulfils these functions, among which is to be subject to the control of this House and to account for the agreements that are made and that affect the citizenship of this country. A citizen who is already very tired of inaction, of looking elsewhere and of the lack of responsibility shown by this Government in office. My party, Coalition Canaria, understands that there is the aforementioned conflict of powers between the Congress of Deputies and the Government of the nation, and also believes that we cannot add more instability to the uncertain landscape in which we are more than a hundred days after a general election. Political and electoral interests must be very well separated from institutional management and action. That is the responsibility in a democratic state. The law is being violated and respect for the institution from which popular sovereignty emanates and in which the most important decisions of this country are made, for the deputies who make up it and for the millions of citizens who have wanted us to represent them is being disregarded. Let's keep our eyes open and not give any more unnecessary shows, which will have time to think about electoral key. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Salvador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. I was or was tempted to use my two minutes reproducing the arguments of the Andalusian Parliament's lawyer's report, which in its day, in a similar situation, said that Parliament's powers were limited to controlling the Andalusian Government, but I thought you would do so. It wasn't like that. We have already set our position on the Defence Commission and said a number of things at the time. One, that there are reasons to defend one thing and the other, but that being so we consider that in the balance the reasons for control weigh more. We do not think it has to be an institution of an uncontrolled government. And, two, we would have wished, I don't know how to say it, fair play: dialogue; negotiation; pact; a certain loyalty; seek in this situation of interinity, in good faith, a solution agreed. We do not think it is a drama to resort to the Constitutional Court, because in the end it is for that. We would have preferred that and that this debate should not be used for other things. And we also advocate and ask that in the future we avoid these problems by changing the standard to avoid these differences in criteria. We are not going to support this initiative because, frankly, it does not seem sincere to us. The Socialist Party defends here today a completely different approach from what it defended in the Andalusian Parliament. And if it is already surprising the position of the Socialist Party, let me tell you that it seems much more surprising to me, I would say amazing, the position of the nationalist parties signing this agreement, because I do not know if they have not read it, if Citizens and the Socialist Party have put a goal on them, if their nationalism really is to be removed and put, if they have renounced their nationalist principles and convictions or if they have suffered a truly remarkable process of mass conversion. I ask you to read it because up to four times we mention national sovereignty, its title, the Spanish people; we talk about the representation we have in this house as representatives of national sovereignty, whose title is the Spanish people. I'm hallucinating. I would like the spokesmen of the nationalist groups who have signed the background and considerations of this proposal to tell us what is going on here. In any case, if it is because of the control of the Government, welcome that change, but it gives me the feeling that neither makes this proposal voting and being honest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u67	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. Mrs. Enbeitia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my solidarity with Argia magazine and in particular with journalist Axier López, who today received a fine, one of the first on account of the law, because more than three months from the last elections it is sad that we are discussing the duties of the Spanish Government, while the Government in office continues to carry out all the misconceptions that it approved in the previous parliamentary term. [[Pronounce words in Basque]] Without a doubt, the Government has a duty to appear before Parliament to report on its activities always, because the Government in office also acts and on many occasions acts in hiding, as if it does not want to do so. Thus, the Spanish Government has participated in the European Union's agreement with Turkey to abandon thousands of people fleeing the war to their fate, but that has already been discussed a lot this morning. The Spanish Government also says that it does not have the confidence of Parliament, and it clings to this in order not to account for anything. Well, the Parliament of Gasteiz in its day passed a housing law that guarantees basic rights to Basque citizens. This law was passed with the confidence of the Basque social majority and the Government in office has resorted to it because, of course, the Government in office, which sometimes does not want to function, functions to appeal and repeal laws that have been democratically passed in other parliaments that do. For some things you need confidence, for others it seems that with self-confidence is more than enough. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had three months of constant dizziness: agreement to two, agreement to three, agreement to four... Seriously, citizens don't care who you agree with and who you don't. Do whatever you want, but do not forget that you represent a society and that there are problems that need urgent solutions. If they are not able to give urgent solutions to people, resign in bloc and, if not, assume their responsibilities. I'm done. Mr President, the other presidents were forgiven, but you, who are from Portugalete, I would like to ask you to call me Enbeita, who is my last name, instead of Enbeitia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Enbeita. Mr Garzón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have in this House the most fragmented Parliament since 1978; a heterogeneous, plural, diverse Parliament. In theory, it should be the practically exact reflection of what our society is, but unfortunately, it is given an unjust electoral law that distorts this result. Ultimately, however, even with this distortion, it does not cease to be a more or less true reflection of society itself, and this is where popular sovereignty resides, where it should reside with all its limitations; limitations that are of a structural nature and limitations that we have denounced on numerous occasions. But, ultimately, this is what there is, there is no organization or institution in which democratic legitimacy can reside better than in this one and, therefore, it is from here from where any political system is built. In the previous legislature, the People's Party clearly confused what the State and the institution of the Government were with that of Parliament and, in fact, continually legislated by a coup d'état and did not even allow its parliamentary group the opportunity to have debates in committees where it could amend the laws; it was something that it could do with its absolute majority, which distorted the meaning of Parliament but, let us say, allowed the numbers and that circumstance. It also gave up committees of inquiry and, ultimately, reduced this Parliament even further to a theatre of shadows, but what is inconceivable anyway is that in this situation, totally different from that of the previous legislature, the Government does not want to be held accountable, it does not lend itself to doing what essentially explains the democratic system of weights and counterweights. It seems to us to be a very serious anomaly that there is already for many months a government in office that is not accountable, especially politically concerned because it is the People's Party, which is not precisely the most transparent party in history, and less Europe. We are concerned politically, but also because if there were elections in our country we would be talking about a government in office that for more than ten months has not held Parliament accountable, a very serious democratic anomaly.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Mr Baldoví has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday, in the Committee on Development, it was again shown that this Government has, in our view, taken a wrong path. Beyond the legal reasons that may exist in one sense or another and that are already well explained in the document that we present seven groups in this House - seven groups of eight; two thirds of Members -, beyond the unusual of the situation, this is a legislature full of unusual situations - worth redundancy - and it is seen that we will have to learn to solve them. I would like to put this intervention in terms of common sense, in what the citizens perceive, in what the citizens want above whether this is a government in office or not, and it is clear that what the citizens want is that there is a government, so many people would like tomorrow to lower the tone, to lower the tone a lot, and to really seek the agreement. That's what you're looking for. As long as that happens or not, citizens want their representatives to work normally - for that they pay us - to do what they chose us for, and it is clear that part of our work is precisely that, the control of the government; a government that continues to make decisions even if it is in office, and the President's appearance here today is a good example. I will set an example because I think it can help us understand our approach. Some, the government too, accuse us of the Members that we have put forward this proposal to want to do electoralism, but on March 17, 2016, just two weeks ago, there was an official visit of the Minister of Development to Alicante. In the photo, in addition to the minister, are César Sánchez, president of the deputy for the People's Party; Isabel Bonig, president of the Valencian People's Party; José Ciscar, president of the People's Party of Alicante. Electoralism? No, of course, friendship. The minister in office makes the following announcements: tender for the doubling of the access to the airport of Alicante, railway access to the ports of Sagunto and Castellón, firm commitment of the government in recent years for the European Union to consider the Mediterranean corridor priority corridor of the trans-European basic network. You have to have the courage to say that. As the elected representative of the Valencian citizens - I am finishing, Mr President - and taking into account the importance of these infrastructures for the Valencian economy, with airports and their connections, Valencian ports that are a reference in total traffic of goods, or of the Mediterranean corridor for one of the most economically important macroregions in Europe - let us remember that a truck is difficult to get from Almeria to Berlin almost four days when it would take thirty-three hours by train, see if that infrastructure is important - we can understand our interest in the minister appearing in the Committee on Development and answering some of these questions and making some clarifications. Electoralism? No, responsibility with our constituents. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. This House is brought to this House for debate and vote a conflict of competences to be raised before the Constitutional Court for breach of the powers conferred on this House by the Constitution, and in particular an initiative is brought through the corresponding requirement of competence and subsequent processing in case the Government fails to respond or does not satisfactorily do so. This is in accordance with articles 73 et seq. of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. We are faced with a serious conflict between constitutional bodies that breaks down the constitutional structure of the State, breaks down the system of relations between constitutional bodies with their own powers and affects the plurality or complexity of the structure of constitutional powers, ultimately affects the division of powers. With the beginning of the procedures laid down in the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court to raise before the High Court the corresponding conflict of powers or powers, it is intended to restore the constitutional architecture of the relations between the constitutional powers, which the Government in office tries to subvert precisely by relying on its function. The Government in office maintains, in a genuine constitutional fraud, that the House cannot subject the Government in office to control initiatives in so far as there is no relationship of trust between the Government in office and the Congress of Deputies, ending the argument with a tail that can pass to the analysts of this House's shambles: We cannot and must not take action, that of appearing before control initiatives before this House, which does not belong to us as the Government in office. Such a government position by not subjecting itself to the control of this House is unacceptable politically, legally and democratically, and we are shocked by the circumvention of control by this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary control of the Government is the essence of the parliamentary system, it is Parliament that receives the direct democratic legitimation of the sovereign people, unlike the Government, which has derived legitimacy. The legitimacy of Congress to exercise its powers of control, according to article 66.2 of the Constitution, derives from the fact that it represents the sovereign people after being elected by direct, free and secret suffrage - article 66.1 - and not from the fact that it has previously invested the President of the Government. After the elections, and the Chambers, they have full powers, and what the Government cannot claim is to transform our parliamentary system into a presidential system in which Parliament's control over the Government is diluted. This is precisely the moment when the relationship of trust is broken by the absence of a new President of the Government, a time when, with greater reason, the control of the House over the Government cannot be called into question because it does not have its confidence. In the face of a fully constituted House, we are faced with a government in office with limited capacity for action, a circumstance that does not constitutionally empower it not to submit to the control of this House. Depending on the control function and its effectiveness on the updating of the relationship of trust through an investiture, it is, first of all, a limitation of the power of control of the House over the Government that violates the competences of the latter, according to article 62.2 of the Constitution, in relation to 109, 110 and 111. Article 66.1 states that the Courts represent the Spanish people and that they control the action of the Government; a control function that is articulated in requests for information, appearances, inquiries and questions; articles 109, 110 and 111 of the Constitution. But also, depending on the role of control and its effectiveness on the updating of the relationship of trust, there is, secondly, an unconstitutional limitation on the right of citizens to participate in public affairs through their representatives and on the right of initiative, fundamental rights recognized in article 23 of the same Constitution. The Chambers and the citizens are not in office once they have been formed; it is the Government that is in office. The absence of full government does not entail parallel limitation of the control function of the House. But, also, and thirdly, to make the monitoring function - as I said before - dependent on its effectiveness in updating the relationship of trust a limitation on the performance of public posts as provided for in article 23.2 of the Constitution, the core of the parliamentary representative function being affected, as expressed by the Constitutional Court in its judgment 57/2011. The fact that the Government is in office, in the absence of a new President of the Government, does not mean, in the end, that the fiduciary relationship between the Government and the House is broken up in a parliamentary system, without prejudice to the fact that its scope is affected or limited, since the Government has limited its sphere of activation and, therefore, the function of control will be co-extended with that area of limited governmental action. However, the control function of the House over the Government will not be removed because it is in office. It is unacceptable in a democratic parliamentary, political, democratic and legal system - as I said earlier - the existence of a government without political control on the part of those who hold the representation of sovereignty. As we said, the Chambers and the citizens are not in office. It is the Government in office that has limited its powers to the ordinary office and to urgent matters or for reasons of general interest. But this area of activities or powers remains under parliamentary control, without any constitutional modulation, as stated in article 66, in relation to 109, 110 and 111 above. Faced with all that said, the Government intends to circumvent the control of this House by claiming that it is in office and that, since there is no relationship of trust because it is not invested, it cannot be controlled by the Congress of Deputies but only by the courts. Well, the Government is interested in confusing the trust function with the control function. The government in office is a government to which certain powers are certainly barred, but it continues to maintain the internal and external leadership of the State, as evidenced by the appearance of the President of the Government in this House today. The Government is also in charge of the management of the Administration. This exercise extends the control function of this House, through interpellations, motions, questions and propositions, which are not a requirement of responsibility or a manifestation of the confidence of this House but are instruments for knowing, discussing and, where appropriate, urging the direction of the action of the Government, also that of a government in office, otherwise they would be a government and an administration without parliamentary control, in accordance with all of Articles 66.2 and 103 of the Constitution. In short, there are no periods exempt from control and no presidential moments. I'm closing up. The debate and vote on the presentation of a conflict of competences that we are dealing with here today aims to restore the constitutional architecture of the relations between powers or the separation of powers, which the Government in office intends to subvert by relying on that which it is in office. For us Montesquieu is not dead, even if you, the members of the government, claim it, at least while you are in office. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u75	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. Mr Xuclà has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an extremely exceptional conflict of powers between constitutional bodies, which should never have occurred. Once again, you, the Government, have created an artificial, preventable, absolutely inappropriate conflict. A conflict that demonstrates its concept, its poor concept of representative democracy and an option, its own, that denigrates the institutions. I am going to make a legal argument, and it seems to me very important that the majority group did not use the turn against to defend its views legally and politically, but I would also like to make some prior political considerations. The previous legislature has been presided over by a style of government: legalism without political smell, legalism without considering politics - and politics and law at the same time are the best way to channel conflicts - or, if you want, legalism with an elephant's political waist. Faced with various political challenges and problems, repeatedly the usual legal-political team, the Aranzadi brigade, has always answered us: This does not allow the law. And many times the usual legal-political team has been wrong, many times it did not have the truth and have always maintained an attitude that does not help to find the solution. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years they have never used the law as a tool to solve the challenges, problems and agreements that are needed. And so they are, three months after the elections, isolated, without remembering a maximum of political life: that the future of an absolute majority government, at best, is the relative majority, and that the future of an absolute majority government is to try to find the pact and the allies for governance in a relative majority scenario. You have preferred to use the fat book of fundamental laws as a wall of a government afraid to face dialogue and democratic control by a newly elected Parliament that meets all the conditions of a democratic Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, let's just go for a moment to a first class of constitutional law. Government Act, article 26.2 - beginning of the summons -: All acts and omissions - which also exist - of the Government are subject to political control by the General Courts. As the classic would say, end of the date. Article 26 of the Government Act provides, without amendment or exception, for parliamentary control. Let us go for a moment to article 66.2 of the Constitution: the General Courts exercise legislative power, approve budgets and exercise control over the action of the Government. Parliament exercises control on behalf of the citizens, of whom we have voted, in full consistency with the form we have adopted, which is the form of parliament and government - Article 1.3 of the Constitution. And this Parliament has important powers: the power of the investiture but it also has the legitimacy to demand political responsibility in extreme situations - see the case of the motion of confidence or the motion of censure - as well as the legitimacy to demand constant and uninterrupted political responsibility, with the only technical limit of the closing time of the records of the Congress of Deputies and the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue in the law class and it may be good to have recourse to a professor of constitutional law, Antonio Torres del Moral, author of a manual of constitutional law, with which I studied at the University of Girona Constitutional Law I and II. Professor Torres del Moral said: It cannot be understood that the absence of a relationship of trust between the Government in office and Parliament leads to an irresponsibility of that Government. End of date. In the Spanish institutional system no one is irresponsible. Only one institution is explicitly irresponsible; all others, including the relationship between us, are responsible for their actions. This Parliament has the responsibility to control the Government and the Government has the responsibility and the obligation to account to a Parliament that invests and has the legitimacy to control it. Let's go to another professor of constitutional law, Roberto Blanco, professor at the University of Santiago: The government is subject to the control of Parliament and this control must be ordinary, which is always done. Article expressly written in the light of this conflict that you have created. The concept of government without political control is not acceptable. It is a frontal shock to the concept of democracy and to the concept that you defend of government without political control, with a vacuum of control, with no permanent relationship with Parliament. Quite the reverse, ladies and gentlemen: now more than ever, being a government in office and in the material sphere of its powers and competences, the government is subject to a relationship of consultation and control with this Parliament. Do you remember that thirty-seven years ago: from the law to the law, through the law? Well, ladies and gentlemen, in these three months we are living, in a Parliament in full, democratically elected: from one government to another government, through Parliament. This Government in office must be very clear that, being a Government in office, the protagonist is more than ever a parliamentary seat; a parliamentary seat which normally exerts the momentum in plenary and in the Commission; and a parliamentary seat which has issued authorizations to the Government in several areas in recent months. The political decisions of the Government must be endorsed by this Parliament, which is in full power. This is clear in terms of international policy. We have just had a six-hour debate on the last two European Councils, which is the cause of a statement unanimously adopted in the Joint Commission of the European Union, creating a really relevant precedent in the parliamentary debate. But also the control of the ordinary administration, and here we should ask ourselves whether it has really been ordinary government management in these three months. Is the government's approval of ecological flows, by far unsustainable, at the mouth of the Ebro River an ordinary government administration? Is the public offer for the year 2016, calling 19,121 places, 62% more than the year 2015, an ordinary government administration? Is the remedy of unconstitutionality against the segregation of the municipality of Medinyà, in Girona, that you will find secondary matter but that to the citizens of Medinyà seems very relevant, is ordinary administration? Is the rejection of the request to the Generalitat on the incompatibility - I conclude, Mr President - of the State in the tests of evaluation of primary education by the Generalitat of Catalonia ordinary administration? Does not all these acts of a political nature of the Government require control and even a relationship of trust on the part of Parliament? Ladies and gentlemen, we have been formal, educated, even academic. Let me finish off a little more informally. I think that they have gone into an absolutely indescribable garden, and good proof of that is that not even the majority group has used the turn against to argue. Less than an hour ago the President of the Government from this rostrum advised the various parliamentary groups to rectify and said that in their vital experience to rectify it is a good practice. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you are still in time to come up to this rostrum, to acknowledge that it is normal for a government in office to be controlled by Parliament and to avoid this absolutely unheard-of conflict between institutions in our ordinary institutional life and that it says very little about its concept of institutions and democratic quality in this State. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Mr Tardà has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, one may even be outraged at the position of the People's Parliamentary Group, which claims that the government should not be subject to Parliament's control. The Catalan Republicans share this indignation, which is why we are signatories to this parliamentary initiative that we are now debating, but they will not deny me - let us not be hypocritical - that it was foreseeable, that it was expected. We Republicans have not been surprised at anything at all. In fact, it is part of the DNA in the political behavior of the People's Party, but attention, not only of the People's Party, as I will try to prove, but also of the Socialist Party. Faced with the problems one has to ask oneself where the most democratic solution lies, hence the most progressive one, the People's Party uses the wild of the legal, the wild of the regulatory. In fact, it is paid for strictly legal, strictly regulatory. Why? Because they know that on this stage they always have to win, it's obvious. Whoever has the power can force regulations. Whoever has the power can force legality. So they are placed on the stage that is most favorable to them. In fact, the right has always done the same historically. Consequently, the People's Party sends out everything stating that the Government does not have to appear because it is in office and because, moreover, it does not have the confidence of the parliamentary majority. Faced with this, we maintain that we are faced with an examination, we are faced with an assessment of the quality of democracy, in fact the quality of democratic institutions. We are passing, once again, the ITV of democratic institutions, because it is clear that the Government, even when it is in office, governs, makes decisions. We have seen this in the wake of the agreements signed between the European Union and Turkey. See if it governs that it ignored, at least they will agree with me that more than partially, of what was approved at parliamentary level, for not referring to what was approved in relation to the National Hydrological Plan. From here on, there are endless contradictions, because if a government is in office, if a government does not have the confidence of Parliament, then it must be submitted to the same institution. Otherwise, look at the perverse logic, because otherwise, in the end, one should give reason to those who tell themselves that they can do what they want, that they can do everything that interests them, from the partisan point of view. For example, let the People's Party say to itself: it is not going to be that by subjecting ourselves to parliamentary control we weaken ourselves politically in the face of the electoral campaign that will possibly begin in a few weeks' time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, one is submitted to Parliament by definition, not by interest, even if this interest is legitimate, from a party point of view. All this must be put on hold for the definition: one submits to Parliament because this is in the DNA of democratic behaviour, whether or not the support of the majority is obtained. In fact, its action is to consolidate a low-cost democracy, to which I shall refer at the end of this intervention. I referred earlier to the Socialist Party. I could say that from those dusts, which I'll talk about next, these muds come. The Catalan Republicans had to file an amparo application with the Constitutional Court when you had the majority in the Bureau in the VIII Legislature, because you did not allow us - now in 2016 this should cause some shame - to address questions to the Government if those questions were intended for Members of Parliament to know something about the finances of the Royal House. We were even forbidden to make non-legislative proposals that were intended - see - to debate in Parliament, to urge the Government, to present the budgetary settlement of the previous year relating to the Royal House that the same Parliament had approved. This is what you did. What was the argument? Same as theirs. You were subject to the rule, to the strictly legal, and you cared about democracy a cucumber. The same arguments as we, the Catalan Republicans, suffered and for which we even had to go to the European Court of Human Rights. In the next parliamentary term, the IX Legislature, this same Member had to file a complaint with the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights because the Congressional Bureau, mostly controlled by the Socialist Party, used the same arguments that the People's Party is now making. In fact, I refer to the example to tell you that from those dusts come these sludges. Certainly, you could say that there were still dusts before your muds. Good, but one day we'll have to end this because here we're playing with the quality of democracy. To us no surprise, we know the People's Party and we know you. You and you, the two of you, have always, always, acted by accepting the least democratic, the status quo, so as not to provoke a certain crisis in favour of democracy. I remind you that in the last parliamentary term you did something that had never been seen in any European Parliament, ever, which was to veto the Joint Group of the Committee on Official Secrets. This had not happened since 1977, in fact it has never happened, nor is it known that it has happened in any European Parliament, as the Joint Group did in the past parliamentary term. Another example, torturingly and using the Rules of Procedure, you left Amaiur without a parliamentary group. This was done by the People's Party with the same arguments used in the VIII and IX Legislatures by the Socialist Party; absolutely the same. Here what it is about is to recognize that it is a bad business to impoverish the quality of democracy knowing that you and you, both, will be defeated. In the same way that in the end we have opened up a gap - even if we have not yet achieved victory - in the finances and transparency of all the members of the Royal House. See if we've made any progress because in 2005 and 2006 they wouldn't let us ask the government any questions and prevent debates about the Royal House and now in 2016 we've made a lot of progress. In the end, what have you achieved? Delaying it, they have only managed to delay it, because always, always, always, democracy ends up winning. They put democracy in check, they consolidate a low-cost democracy, which is why it should not surprise them that what is happening now is happening. I inform you that in this low-cost democracy we already have almost 200 Catalan municipalities which have been opened a judicial file for even sedition because they have only ratified the resolution adopted mostly in the Parliament of Catalonia on 9 November, which, by the way and they are being scraped, tomorrow will be ratified in the Parliament of Catalonia. Hey. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u79	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. Mr Girauta has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in her letter to the President of the Congress on 16 March, the Vice-President of the Government welcomes almost the alleged loyalty of the Executive to this House because, in exceptional circumstances - she tells us - the Government is responding to requests for information. An example is the fact that a Secretary of State appears before a Commission before a European Council. Regardless of the fact that the European Councils are made up of presidents and prime ministers and that what should have been done if the President of the Government was to be appointed is that he would appear before the plenary in the same way as the Belgian Prime Minister did on successive occasions when his Government was in office for more than five hundred days, as he said, regardless of that, the substance is something else. The essential thing is that the General Courts control the action of the Government - article 66 of the Constitution -, that the Government responds in solidarity in its political management before Congress - article 108 of the Constitution -, that the Chambers and their commissions can claim the presence of the members of the Government - article 110 of the Constitution -, that all acts and omissions of the Government are subject to the political control of the General Courts - article 26 of the Government Act. These rules and the spirit that informs them are substantial. However, the Government does not consider itself under the control of this Congress. Hence their eventual appearances are presented to us as exceptional funny acts, signs of a close and transparent talent that would operate voluntarily when the Executive seems to give the conditions of urgency or exceptionality that advise it. But, first of all, the condition of exceptionality does not subjectively value it either a minister or a vice-president or a president of government, because, as the secretary-general of this house has observed in his report of 19 January, the Bureau can admit and order the processing of initiatives of control and information, questions, inquiries, appearances and request for reports. Of course, it should be aligned with the functions of a Government in its own situation, but it is the Bureau that can admit and order it. Controlling the Government does not depend on the Government's approach. It would be much more, Madam Vice President! — wherever he is — there would be more to be done if we gave good cause for his claim to an out-of-control executive, which is what this government has become. Because Spain is a democracy; I remind you that it governs the division of powers, which operates the system of controls and balances. Both accuse others of having killed Montesquieu and you have ended up leaving Montesquieu in office and, by the way, John Locke, the good Locke, who saw in the division of powers the guarantee that there would be no abuse of power and that he placed in the Legislative Power the supreme power in a strict sense. We uphold the principles of liberal democracy and the Constitution, as is natural, regardless of the colour of the Government in question. What is simply unacceptable is that the Government of Spain, a Government of Spain, this Government of Spain, is not accountable of any kind to a Parliament which is in full office. I don't know if they do it because they're defensive, covered up, even from the law; I don't know if they've taken the taste out of control; it doesn't matter. But if you trample on the basic principle of liberal democracy, which is the division of powers, if you forget that this House is not in office and that it is you who are in office, if you ignore the Aristotelian logic and interpret less power as less control, that is, you interpret less power as more power, less is more, unless you are followers of Mies van der Rohe, which is a logical aberration, and unless you disregard the general principles of law as the obvious of who can most, can at least, that is, if the Legislature can control a real government, you can well control them; unless you do all that, trample over the division of powers, forget that we are not in office, ignore logic and disregard law, you will leave us no alternative and we will have to maintain the approach of conflict of powers between constitutional organs of the State. They're in time to avoid it, or not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u81	Thank you, Mr. Girauta. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with what both medicine and popular wisdom would call a symptom: a surface fact that tells us that another more solid or structural fact is happening below. Coughing, for example, would be an isolated fact, but indicates that the body may have a deeper problem. In this case, the symptom before us is quite simple: this government, in fact, is avoiding the control of this House. The Executive is escaping the monitoring and monitoring of the Legislature. Nothing more and nothing less. This is a formal assault on the division of powers, as reflected in our Constitution, to which we must respect a little more and to which we should perhaps name a little less. A basic principle that seeks to avoid a very general law of politics, according to which all strength, in the absence of limits, tends to expand and eventually to become corrupt. Because unchecked power would easily slide into positions contrary to the pursuit of general interest and practices that would threaten pluralism, as civil society organisations and the media are now suspect in our country that these days, Minister of the Interior, denounce that the Government could be using everyone's institutions to harass the opposition. A real scandal for the rule of law! [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, this is not the first symptom, since we are talking about a government, such as that of the People's Party, which has accustomed us to press conferences through a plasma screen. And it is that you to transparency and accountability tend to resist. A government that gives press briefings without press leads to a democracy without democracy, to a low-profile democracy where every parliamentary or constitutional principle seems to kneel before this current trend of disregarding the production of parliamentary laws in favor of decrees. In other words, a deterioration in the basic functions of parliamentary life that ends in a hypertrophy of the executive, as the constitutionalist Rubio Llorente recalled when he pointed out that the proliferation of the decree-law as a form of government intervention in the political development of a country poses a serious risk to democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u83	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Why is this executive, Mr President-in-Office, legitimised to circumvent Parliament's control? Now more than ever, and precisely because the Government is in office, it is when it must strive to be more accountable to this House. The answer is simple, but the conclusion is more dangerous: this government is seen as legitimizing itself to bargain with the mechanisms of parliamentary democracy because it judges this Parliament as an obstacle. This Government is inspired, as others of dark memory, by that doctrine which considers that politics and democracy are good whenever they give way to financial calculation. That sovereignty belongs to the markets and not to the peoples. The same doctrine that gives way to our sovereignty and that is behind the spirit of Panama's roles. The one that says that the laws are above the ordinary people, but that even above the laws are the privileged ones, who, thanks to their power, can escape the control of the institutions, just as this Government intends to escape the control of the Legislature. The rules - you seem to understand - are only for those who do not have the strength or the money to skip them, and this is the real threat to our democracy. Antisystem is not the people who filled our squares, antisystem are the powerful without any control or accountability. [[Applauds]] You are accustomed to an absolute majority which has allowed you to mistreat many Spanish families but which will no longer return, which will not come back, you despise the obligation to be accountable and thereby undermine the democratic quality of our country, but also our country itself because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Spain is not better after a government which has been believed to be above this House. We have just seen the failure to meet the deficit targets and the distortion of figures. We have just learned that bank bailout to Bankia is going to cost twice as much as we said, and in addition that the bill is still unsure if they're going to give it back to us at some point. To a large extent we have been aware that we have the dubious honour of being competing down in inequality with the most punished countries in Europe, at the same time as climbing in the ranquinas of corruption. And what does that have to do with what we're discussing? None of these abuses, not one, would have been possible without the concentration of powers and opacity with which they governed us in the previous legislature. The way to have a fairer country is exactly the same as the way to have a more democratic and more balanced country of power. [[Applauds]] Therefore, today we propose symptomatic treatment to alleviate one of the problems of our democracy, because we believe - hold on to the chair to see what anti-system idea - that if the government is under democratic control it will work best. It is an idea, ladies and gentlemen, that shouted at our people on May 15, 2011. There were many and many of us sitting in this House today, and we do not forget that mandate: democratic regeneration, popular sovereignty, social justice and transparency. They are unavoidable commitments, but at the same time they are the only guarantee of economic prosperity and social well-being. Everything that we advance in balance and independence of powers, in popular participation and in transparency will be advancing in democracy. All that, on the contrary, we move towards the concentration of powers, the partisan use of the institutions that are of all and opacity, we will be going back to the oligarchy. Don't be mistaken, we're not asking you for a favor today. The President's appearance today is good news. To do it as if it were a personal grace, as something that I could decide at my own will, is not. I do not want to risk one of these games of words that are so much spread here - you know, that of if we are the very Spanish Spaniards - but it is that the idea that we have today is quite simple. What we are saying is that a President is a President, that a Government is a Government, even in office, and that a Parliament is a Parliament and must be respected. The Constitution, by regulating parliamentary control in Title V, does not distinguish between Government and Government in office when it states that the Executive must be controlled by the Legislature. And it does so precisely to safeguard the division of powers; a basic principle of parliamentaryism that has too often been manipulated and worn out in recent years. He said we didn't ask them for a favor, but they did their duty. The Government's obligation is to provide information to the Chambers, as reflected in article 109 of the Constitution; to appear before the Chambers, as recognized in article 110, and to answer questions and inquiries, as recognized in 111. These, ladies and gentlemen, are not principles subject to discretionary interpretation as to whether the Government is in office or not. Denying accountability is a whim of yours that could set a terrible precedent: that a government can be months without being controlled by Parliament. This, in fact, means breaking a principle governed by the Constitution, and it is done by someone who is paradoxically in office. However, neither Spain nor our democracy, ladies and gentlemen, are in place. The precedents, moreover, point in the opposite direction. On 17 February 1981, having resigned as President of the Government Don Adolfo Suárez, the opposition deputies did have the opportunity to challenge the Government in office. Thus, Mr Gutiérrez Mellado or the then Minister of the Interior, Mr Rosón Pérez, responded to this House, the seat of popular sovereignty. Your second excuse is Law 50/1997, which, in your view, would cover a minimum of government work, almost administrative. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u85	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u86	But is this the case? Is the Government exclusively making light or administrative decisions that do not require parliamentary control? In my view, this Government is making political decisions, and it is hardly negable. The Government is not merely dealing with public affairs on a regular basis. I am thinking, for example, of the extension of sixty more years to the questionable ENCE stationery in the Pontevedra region; I am thinking of the award of fifteen AVE trains, apparently extendable to so many others, or I am thinking of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on refugees, which you have decided to adopt unilaterally, as all groups have reminded you this morning, against the mandate of this House. No one can say without disrespecting people that we are talking about administrative or urgent decisions. These are political decisions that any executive has to account for in the House. To claim that the Government is in office and that therefore it does not have the confidence of this House to avoid being subject to control is as much as to want its actions to remain in a kind of political limbo, free from control, which is contrary to the essence of the parliamentary regime. Let me insist: precisely because the government is in office it has limited capacities and precisely because its confidence is prior to that of this House it is why you must fulfil your obligations. Where you see excuses not to face accountability, we see more and more reasons for balance of powers and democratic control. And then, what is the executive waiting for to be held accountable? What are you afraid of? What cannot be explained in this House? The President of the Government, still in office, was not directly elected to his post by roll-call vote, was elected in this House, and this House now demands his legitimate right to control the Government, all the more legitimate as the distribution of seats, which is the fruit of popular sovereignty, has now changed. I have finished, Mr President, and I do so by recalling that Spain has entrusted too much time with the recipes, the forms and the counter-reforms of the People's Party. Undoubtedly, the patience of our people has been worthy of study. Now, in this House, we no longer ask you to try something different, to try something new, something simple: trust in democracy and give yourself an opportunity to end your mandate with dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Mr Fernández Díaz, Minister for the Interior, asks for the floor]] Minister?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. It is under the protection of Article 71 and very briefly for a reference made by the honourable Member in relation to the Ministry of the Interior, the Police and some actions, which are public and notorious, of which the ministry is being accused and which, as far as I am concerned, I think they deserve, in the interests of the truth, a very brief reply. In thirty seconds I'm ready, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u89	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Errejón has certainly referred, in what he has said from the rostrum, to information that is being published these days. The Ministry of the Interior or its subordinate bodies, such as the Directorate-General of the Police or specialized units such as the UFEF, the Economic and Financial Crime Unit, are directly charged with being the cause of these leaks and to do so with political intent in the light of the political interests of the party that supports the Government in office today. [[Applauds.-Protests]] And I here, in the parliamentary seat - I have said this in the halls - strongly reject these statements; the disclaimers in the parliamentary seat. [[Protests]] I strongly regret that the Ministry of the Interior, the Directorate-General of the Police or the UDEF have never leaked anything. I am solemnly saying this in the parliamentary seat. There is no political police here; I don't know in other countries, in Spain, no. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u91	Thank you, Minister. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bermúdez de Castro has the floor. [[The rumors continue.-Mr. Iglesias Turrion: That's it.-Mr. Errejón Galván: That, tomorrow in the Commission]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u92	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of this debate? What is the political reason that has led them, twenty-five days after the deadline for elections to be called again, if they continue to block the situation, to try to turn April into a month of institutional conflict when our main task, I would say, is almost exclusive, should be to try to invest a new government? What does it make sense for the Parliament of the XI Legislature to seek to control politically the Government of the X Legislature, a Government which has ceased and which, precisely because it is in office, cannot do politics? Will it not be, what coincidence!, because the government in office is of the People's Party and is presided over by Mariano Rajoy? If that is not the reason, then why is it intended to exercise control beyond what is permitted by law, against all legal and parliamentary precedents, and for the sole purpose of opposing and wearing down the government trying to turn this House into a pre-campaign scenario? Why, ladies and gentlemen? Because that is the true intention underlying that initiative. [[Applauds]] And, before presenting it, some should have had a certain dose of prudence and rigor and at least a little consistency. And that's not for you, Mr. Errejón, because how are we going to ask for prudence? No wonder they want to change the precedents and rules of the game; that's what goes in their DNA. If you want to change the whole system, how come you don't want to change this? That is why we are not surprised; neither are we surprised nor do we share their arguments at all. It is surprising, however, that they claim the need for political control of a government in office which in Catalonia supported a government which maintained that nature for one hundred and two days without being subjected to any appearance or session in full. [[Applauds]] Yes, gentlemen. And then they give constitutional lessons in this rostrum. And don't tell me that no one asked because our group did, and for an extraordinary and important question: for Mr. Mas to explain whether the Government of the Generalitat in office was going to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court that affected him, and you objected to that. And do not tell me either, as they argued in the Board of Spokesmen - it is in the Minutes - that the case of Catalonia is not transferable to which we are debating today because in the Parliament of Catalonia there was no majority political will to seek control of the government in office. But what kind of legal argument is that, ladies and gentlemen? The law is the same for all and its application does not depend on the majority's criterion; on the contrary, the law is the safeguard of minorities over the majority. [[Applauds]] And as long as it doesn't change, the same for everyone, the same for everyone. [[Applauds]] That is the principle of legality. The same thing happened in Andalusia, and for eighty-one days since the election until Susana Díaz won the investiture, there was not a single appearance, nor a single control session; moreover, there was not even a single ordinary plenary, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] And there were none because the Bureau commissioned a report from the legal services, which you and you then supported. [[Reporting to the Socialist and Citizens' Parliamentary Groups]] And do you know what that legal services report concluded? That there was no point in exercising political control over a Government that was limited to the ordinary management of public affairs, page 6. [[Applauds]] And my question is: Why did what served the Parliament of Andalusia a few months ago with its support and its support not serve now for the Congress of Deputies? Why is it holding here an interpretation as distant as it is different from that held there? Is the law that applies in Andalusia different? [[Referring again to the above-mentioned groups]] No, ladies and gentlemen, because the Government of Andalusia Act of 2006 reproduces almost literally and mimetically the National Government Act. [[A Member of Parliament: God damn it!]] So, what's the difference? For the difference is what you are all thinking; the difference is that the Government in office of the Andalusian Board was socialist and President Susana Díaz, that is the difference. [[Applauds]] And then they come here to make speeches of regeneration and equal treatment. That's a lot of consistency, ladies and gentlemen. They also invoke in their writing a precedent - as Mr Errejón has also said - of 1981 of the UCD government, when the Rules of Procedure of this House, ladies and gentlemen, which is the following year, of 1982, were not even approved. But do not confuse, in that year there was no session of control of the use, because what at last was an extraordinary appearance of the minister of the interior in office. But since they invoke supposed precedents thirty-five years ago, I'm going to make it even easier for them. Can you tell me whether you know of only one case in which a President of the Government or a Socialist minister in office has appeared in this House for parliamentary control over the past thirty-five years? Can you tell me one case? Do not try because there are none, because the first and only time a government in office has appeared before this House since 1981 has been in this legislature and precisely with a popular government, and they want to take the government to the Constitutional Court! What a rigor and a piece of paper. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not share this initiative and believe that, as a general rule, a government in office cannot and should not be subject to the political responsibility of a House that has not given it confidence. This is because the Government in office derives the institutional principle of extension, of avoiding a vacuum of power and maintaining the life of the State, and was thus established in article 101 of our Constitution. However, the extension institute does not intend to allow the Government to continue acting as if it had not ceased. Quite the contrary, precisely because you are in office and as provided for in article 21 of the Government Act, which speaks of the Government in office and not the 26 which you continually invoke, you have limited powers to the ordinary law of public affairs, and you cannot develop any policy of an innovative nature. And you know why? Because the lack of parliamentary confidence deprives it of the indispensable requirement to be able to carry out these innovative policies. And if mere management activities lack political relevance, if the government in office cannot do politics, then, ladies and gentlemen, what do we intend to control? If the Government is overstepping its functions, what do we want these Courts to perform an arbitral function that the legal system reserves exclusively to the judiciary? Because if that's what we want, those of us who would eventually be overly limited in our functions would be us. That is why the assertion that the Government is uncontrolled is not supported, because it is not; what is very limited, because it is in office, but always subject to judicial control, ladies and gentlemen. Do not tell me that what is intended is not control but information, because to that the Government has never refused and have the best example this morning with the presence of the President of the Government in office. Nor do you tell me that it is only a matter of monitoring decisions that have been taken by the Government while they are in office, because here in this Bureau they have been called appearances to ask for explanations for past actions. It is the same as that new theory that the demand for control of the Government is not based on the previous relationship of trust and that, therefore, the only one that is now limited is the Government, but not this House, because it is born of popular sovereignty. All right, that's great. But how are we not limited? We're by law. Then why can we not, for example, present a motion of censure or process budgets? What do you mean, we're not conditioned? See if we are, that if we can't form government in twenty-five days, they will automatically dissolve us; see if we are conditioned! [[Applauds]] It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this House cannot carry out its functions in full without a government in integrity. Indeed, the same is true of the report by the Andalusian Parliament, page 12 ; more doses of coherence. [[Protests. - Rumors.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, instead of seeking an agreed and reasonable way out and a position of balance, they want to throw this House into an institutional conflict, and without waiting for the Constitutional Court to pronounce itself, they already announce that they intend to subject the Government to a session of questions of general control against any rule, any political logic, anything coming from and in addition against the report itself of the General Secretariat of this House, which said that control was only possible in an extraordinary, non-ordinary way, and in a singular and non-general way or by quotas, such as the control sessions on Wednesdays. By the way, why do we now have control sessions with the Government and not at the beginning of February? Why wasn't February a priority? Wouldn't it be because then Mr. Sanchez was going to try an investiture in March, would it? Are you sure you don't? For that, ladies and gentlemen, what more do you want me to say to you, if it is your actions that reveal your true intentions. [[Applauds]] I'm done. Everyone there with their responsibility, but I will tell you something: they can win this vote, but they are not assured of the reason and much less of the support of the Spaniards, who are perplexed by the continuous theatrical spectacle and the endless number of photos, of claims of chairs, of meetings, of contradictory versions and of comings and goings that they are giving to try to hide the only truth that is valid in democracy, which is the reality of the votes. As much as you try to disguise it, what the reality of the votes told us is that the People's Party won the elections again, and it did so at the will of the Spaniards, who did not want the change, nor, of course, that the person who lost the elections was president of the Government. That's why they don't have the bills now, because they didn't have the votes before. Everything else is left, ladies and gentlemen, everything else is smoke, only theater and smoke, and the sooner they understand it, the better for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. We are going to vote on the proposal made by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos, Esquerra Republicana, Catalan, Vasco and Mixto, for an approach of conflict of powers between the Congress of Deputies and the government of the nation. [[Democracy and Freedom]] [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 218 against, 113 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-06-CD160406.u95	The proposal for a conflict of powers approach, to be dealt with in accordance with article 73 of the Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October of the Constitutional Court, was approved. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was four and five minutes in the afternoon. http://www.congreso.es Calle Floridablanca, s/n. 28071 Madrid
