ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. Two previous issues. First of all, I would like to announce to you that today's accumulated votes will be about eight o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u2	Second question. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the inclusion as the last item on the agenda for tomorrow's sitting on Thursday, 28 April, of a new item on the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The inclusion of this item in the agenda was therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u3	It is now time to discuss first of all the proposal of the Catalan Parliamentary Group to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies for the creation of the register of interest groups or lobbies. [[Democracy and Freedom]] Mr Campuzano has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come up to the rostrum - and I think the whole House shares it - with a terribly strange feeling: we are going to discuss initiatives that we know will be exhausted next Monday and the feeling of melancholy can be important because of that of useless efforts. Faced with that, surely there is a society that looks at us, between angry and perplexed, and that does not understand or can understand how politics - the old, the new - has been bad and unable to reach agreements. As he likes to remind our spokesperson these days, Spain is different. In the European context, a situation like this has hardly been experienced in the last 40 or 50 years. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, all this contrasts with the reality - economic, social and political - which requires us to have answers and the capacity to agree to address these issues, including the fundamental question that we have been defending in this House since Democracy and Llibertat: the rights of Catalonia; the right of Catalonia to decide its future. These are issues that will certainly have to be addressed in the next parliamentary term and among which is the question of democratic regeneration. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we want to share with all of you today - the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of Congress for the creation of the register of interest groups or lobbies - is part of a proposal for democratic regeneration which has to do with the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which has to do with transparency and which has to do with the political participation of interest groups in the making of our laws and in the making of policies. It would be a shame if we did not address those issues in this legislature and, in particular, the issue of the reform of the Rules of Procedure. Because, what do we intend to do when we address this issue? Firstly, that we have a better-functioning Congress of Deputies; that we be more able to control the Government; that we be able to make non-legislative proposals not a simple rhetorical exercise that has no results at all; and that the legislative capacity, in technical terms, is much better. How many operators complain about the bad laws that come out of this Congress? We need to be able to make this a Congress in which we not only give more or less accurate speeches, but we are able to work, to have a website updated with accessible and manageable data by interest groups and public opinion. This reform that we propose to you from Democracy and Llibertat has to do with a Congress that works better, that is more transparent. We address the issue of the lobby or interest group from the conviction that transparency is necessary and society must know who we discuss political groups with, with whom we exchange views and collect proposals in defining our political positions, because we all do so normally, there is no bill that lands in this House where parliamentary groups do not feel we are discussing with interest groups the meaning of this initiative. What is at stake is that this is a transparent process to build trust in society before the institutions. It also has to do, ladies and gentlemen, with the right to participation; with the right of interest groups, citizens organized into interest groups, to participate in the political process, to participate in the definition of our laws. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an initiative that is not based on the idea that interest groups, lobbies, are bad, but on the conviction that we live in a plural, complex society, in which there are different interests, different ideals, different values, different ideas that are articulated through the parliamentary groups that we sit in this House, but also articulated through organized social groups, and those organized social groups are legitimate and their influence in the political process is lawful. Yesterday, the Democrácia i Llibertat Group defended in the Employment Committee an impetus to the relief contract, and we did so by defending the interests of pressure groups, of groups that defend very specific interests of the automotive sector, where, by the way - a good example - the coincidence between the employer, Anfac, and the trade unions is total. And we picked up that initiative from society and moved it to this House. Plural democracy is part of that. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when we propose the creation of a register of interest groups, what we want to sanction is the right to society's participation in the process of building policies, in the making of laws, as in fact has been done. And we recall that there we can rely on constitutional precepts, in particular in 9.2 and 23 of the Constitution, which enshrine these rights of participation. Our initiative is, in legislative terms, simple and therefore much better if we were in a real legislature. For example, the spokesman for this issue, Mr Bataller, from Compromís, gave us very careful and very correct considerations that if we could deal with the proposal we would certainly all take into account. Today, the Access platform, for information, has made public its position vis-à-vis that initiative and says that it values it positively, but that it is short. Obviously, it is an initiative that we should improve in a proper parliamentary procedure, but it is an initiative that basically makes three questions. Firstly, it creates the register and establishes its mandatory nature, a register in which all organizations and persons who intend to intervene in the legislative process and in the political process of this House should be registered; it is not a voluntary register. And it is a public record in the sense that the information contained in it and what is derived from it must be accessible to the public, in that line of transparency to generate confidence. Secondly, it is also a proposal that incorporates a strict code of conduct on the part of all interest groups registered in that register and that therefore establishes rules of a deontological nature that interest groups should assume in order to be able to register. And thirdly, it sets out a mandate on an issue that we believe is fundamental, which is the regulation of the legislative footprint; that is, the need for public opinion to know the origin of the amendments and the changes we introduce in the bills we are discussing in this House. In this proposal we have not dared to regulate in detail the traceability of the legislative footprint because it has its complexities; we refer it to a rule that should be developed by the Bureau of Congress on the operation of the lobby register, but we would be delighted if the forecast of the legislative footprint could be fully incorporated into the regulation. The traceability of our initiatives in their connection with the interests of society seems essential to us. The most advanced countries in our environment, such as the United States, the European Parliament and some European States, are moving in that direction. Thus, public registration, strict code of conduct and regulation of the legislative footprint. I would also say to them that it is a rather unoriginal initiative in the sense that it has been regulated in the European Parliament - which is perhaps the most paradigmatic example - in some European states - and it is increasingly the European states that are incorporated in that direction - and it has also been regulated in the Parliament of our country, in Catalonia. The Parliament approved its own register of interests some time ago and there is an interesting and, like everything else in life, certainly improveable experience. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Markets and Competition has also recently set up a register throughout the State. Therefore, we combine this initiative with dynamics that move in the most advanced countries and that we modestly want to incorporate into the scope of the Congress of Deputies. We would like this session not to have a melancholy character and for all groups to be able to face the debate on this proposal with a dialectic that does not serve to generate more noise, which causes disaffection to citizens, but rather the debate that we articulate - and which our group is trying to put forward with this type of initiative - allows us to move forward in a shared diagnosis of how we should address the reform of the Rules of Procedure of this House, how we can be able to establish the transparency that society demands with regard to interest groups and whether we agree that the representation of interest groups is an essential part of a democratic system. We would like the debate on this proposal to be a positive debate. Ladies and gentlemen, my will is not melancholy, despite the fact that, as I told you at the beginning of this speech, we Members of the Catalan Group have landed in this legislature convinced that the majorities that could be set up in this House could be useful in providing a democratic way out of the civic and democratic demand that Catalan society has put forward. [[Democracy and Freedom]] But the legislature dies, and one of the reasons for his death is the inability of the majority of this House to imagine, to address, to understand a democratic solution to the Catalan question. Ladies and gentlemen, in June we hope to return more strongly, and the strength that will continue to sound in this Chamber from our seats will insist that without a democratic solution to the Catalan question there is no political solution to the Spanish problem. We go in that direction, our commitment is this, actively participating in the policy being discussed in the State but being clear that the commitment we make to Catalan society is to defend our right to decide our future as a national community. Let us hope that today, at least in this discussion, they will be able to support us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u5	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. As no one has asked for a turn against, Mr Martínez has the floor in the first place in the position-setting round for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u6	Mr President, at the Forum, where we have transparency in public management as an inspiring principle, we see this regulatory reform initiative as an opportunity to deepen the control of the relationship of interest groups with legislators, an issue on which the vast majority of countries in our environment and the European representative institutions, to which thousands of organisations with these characteristics are recognised and registered, take advantage. [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, with a strong suspension, the assessment of the lobby, carried out by the Spanish chapter of Transparency International, placed us at the worst stage in terms of safeguards against undue influence and rules that promote an ethical lobby in European political systems. In the light of such a study, much work remains to be done in Spain and, therefore, there is no question of the accreditation of these groups in Congress as a legitimate formula for the representation of those economic and social sectors that try to assert their opinions, always in the general interest, with full respect for legality and with cleanliness. In practice, the Legislature is receptive to interest groups; in fact, not a few appearances of experts and specialists in different subjects are made precisely to expose questions or aspirations that allow deputies or senators to form an opinion on certain matters and finally decide their vote. However, progress must be made in transparency on the grounds of democratic regeneration, subjection to the scrutiny of society and in order to accompany the General Courts to the legislative advances that they themselves promoted with the adoption of the Law on Transparency and Good Government, which entered into force at the end of 2014. For the purpose of incorporating into the Rules of Procedure of the Lower House a regulation of the lobbies, it should be noted that in the last legislature the Plenary adopted an initiative that was not finally completed, which, before the impending dissolution of the Chamber, will also have this proposal of the Group Democrácia i Llibertat, which re-edits that agreement and reiterates the need to extend parliamentary transparency with a register of interest groups, its relationship with the deputies, the establishment of a code of conduct, as well as the rights of access to information and participation and the supervision of compliance with these rules. Therefore, together with our favourable vote, we also make it clear that the creation and regulation of a register of interest groups or lobbies in the Congress of Deputies is another subject that remains for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u9	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u10	Good afternoon. The record of lobbies put before us by the comrades of Democrácia and Llibertat is something to celebrate; it seems right to us. We understand that what is proposed here is a legally binding and binding registration, and that is very good, because in the preamble they refer precisely to the European Registry of 2011. I would like to say that it is a complete fiasco, that it is proving that the information contained in it is incomplete and that it is not much less all the information that is needed to know who is pressing. And that's what I'm going to do. [[Rumors]] Not only do we need to know who is pressing - and this is what I am threading with what they have commented on from the legislative footprint - we need to know what is being pressed and how much is being spent on it. Why? Because otherwise we can continue to receive information from Parliament that all interest groups, civil society organisations, are being taken into account when the only interests that end up being reflected and that end up becoming pressure groups that really work are those that have and continue to have privileged access to power because they themselves have greater power. And they sell us cat for hare saying that it takes into account the citizenry, when in reality they are the great financial and business oligarchies of this country... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u11	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u12	It seems that they do not have much interest in listening to it from the comrades of the People's Group. ... those reflected in these rules. That is why we understand that what has been left unenforced on the legislative trail is something that is really very much needed, because we do not want civil society organisations to continue to be confused with the interests of those who have the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez. Mr. Bataller.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I remember with affection the summers of my childhood, when time seemed suspended; without school, without obligations, with few rules. A time of games, of races, of baths in the sea; a time - as defined by the great contemporary Valencian poet Vicente Gallego - of light legs and joy in the body. Unfortunately, that time ended with the September rains and the return to school. And we became adults learning that we would never enjoy that idyllic state again because reality demands us day by day. In this dying legislature, I have seen some political leaders settle in that cloud of my childhood. Mr Rajoy - who has given himself so little in this House and who does not honor us with his presence today - has lived so happy in his immobility that I wonder if he will not want to become a permanent president in office. And Mr Sánchez - not present today - with so many runs forward, I do not know what he will do when the holidays are over which, with his escapism, this legislature has become. However, reality is imposed, people want to know, they want to participate, and some will have difficulty explaining why they got into trouble with a legislature that started with large doses of consensus on the urgent need for real changes in our society. And so we were shaping the vote after the vote, showing the existence of a new majority for this country, showing that it is possible to transfer that government to the Valencian government as a whole, which some despise sourly, possibly because it is a model incompatible with corruption and opacity. Compromís will vote in favour of the proposal for the creation in this Congress of a register of interest groups or lobbies. We would have liked a subsequent procedure in which we could introduce various amendments, which we have already communicated to the proposing group and which Mr Campuzano was kind enough to indicate, some amendments which we were introducing to improve the text and which are mainly technical in nature, but in some cases we also raised the need, for example, for a public agenda reflecting who, when and why a group of interest meets with a Member. We support this proposal because it is an obligation of transparency in line with the spirit of the Valencian Government, which has created a specific advice to fight for maximum transparency in public activity after twenty years of concealment, falsification, clientelism, which now bills us with empty arches and a ruined image that we are recovering with tireless effort, action after action, decision after decision, because we do act, we do decide. But don't trust those who are perhaps settled in Peter Pan's world, because the Valencian government as a formula of progress, from plurality and commitment to transparency, will soon be a reality in the state and some will have to definitely leave their blue summer and assume the demands of the people who are living in reality, among many other things, transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u15	Thank you, Mr. Bataller. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Campuzano, our group is going to vote in favour, but we are not going to do it very fanatically, of course not, because we sincerely believe that what they are proposing does not address the problems that are being tackled, it does not go to the very heart of the issue, and it can even hinder some things that work relatively well in the development of our legislative work. I'm gonna get to the point. I believe that with the substance, with greater transparency, and so on, we all agree, and in that sense, I insist, our vote will go. However, exactly with the regulation of lobbies I have many doubts about my experience in these legislatures. First, it is said that more and more are being adopted. Where does this system come from? This system does not arise - the regulation of the lobbies, even their own mechanisms - from a parliamentary system to the use but from a presidentialist system in the United States, where the political parties are not so ideological, each of the members of Parliament responds to very direct interests of voters and many times to those who have financed the campaign; we are talking about money in particular, and then I will return to this. Secondly, it talks to me about the European Parliament, but it is the same thing, apart from the fact that it is not working well, as has been pointed out before. They are very loose, very broad groups, in which discipline works for some things and in that way: they respond to national interests, to ideological interests that even within the same group can be faced, and you know your own experience - and ours - within the European parliamentary group with other groups in this House - what will I tell you! Therefore, it is not a Parliament like this, for use. In Europe, France and Germany, there is something in the regulation. By the way, Germany has one in the Bundestag but it is a kind of record without anything else that does not have a very large operation. Italy doesn't have it at state level. The only ones they have are Lithuania, Poland and recently Austria, but labour legislation has yet to prove effective. What is people's interest in regulating all this? What would the citizen ask of all this? I'd like to know what interests I stand behind. But are you interested in knowing if I'm meeting Amnesty International, for example? Well, I don't think much. Or another association that represents a cultural theme, etc., in which perhaps there is no profit? Do you really have a lot of interest? No, no, However, we should also include them among the pressure groups. What is interest related to? With the influence trade. Therefore, with corruption. So, with the money that might be behind it. Ah! So, what we have to focus on would rather be that, not something else. On the other hand, there has been talk here of putting it in the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, in Parliament. The real lobby - you and I know it - is not in Parliament, poor of us! What power do we have of influence, even the majority party, the Members themselves who defend the government? The lobby is in the Government and in handling itself within the Government's entrails. Moreover, I would say that not even at the level of ministers, but rather at other levels. That is what we have to face, and in any case a law to give transparency to all this. Here in Parliament, poor us!, what influence do we have? Among other things, the legislative impetus lies with the Government. How many proposals for legislation are approved? How many pass the procedure of consideration? Very few. And if there is an articulated majority of government, the disciplined government group will do what it tells it to do. The lobby is in the government, not so much here. That's part of it. On the other hand, it scares me a bit because there may also be vested interests. Any citizen who wants to locate me or talk to me or any member of my group has it very easy, you can get in touch. We are receiving calls from citizens, associations, companies, very varied calls. We want to register and it seems that we want those who are not in the register to be unable to deal with parliamentary groups. What are we going to do? Give a kind of boost to what they call consulting lobbying?, to those law firms specialized in selling: I get you the relationship with the corresponding deputy and I charge you? I don't want to promote that. Citizens can contact me directly, or my party. I don't want to encourage intermediaries to live by telling me what others could tell me directly. What are we gonna do? Obliging others, the so-called in house lobby, people who are within an association to give their name, etc.? There are groups, such as Amnesty International, for example, that you mentioned earlier, that may have people for parliamentary relations, but there may be smaller associations or groups that do not have them or that make a timely call. Are we gonna put them through the log? Honestly, I don't see it. What's my code of conduct going to be? Can't I meet or talk to anyone who isn't at the base of the record? Or maybe I can get together, but if I do it out of Congress? As you see, there are many doubts here, and I think it would be more important to have a code than a record in that sense, and above all to clarify the issue of what revenue there has been. Have there been any match donations? Have there been donations to foundations? Well, let's make them all public, everyone's, that we can portray each other and know what's going on. Perhaps that would lead to certain impulses or amendments. The base, I insist, remains in the government. The question is the lack of confidence that there can be a traffic of influences, and that with a mere record in the sense of: I have met with this, and... They're talking about the print. I still believe, from my experience in one group, that when you have explained the impression that all the amendments and activities of a political group in this House are driven by third parties, by interest groups in one direction or another. I still believe that we have parties with ideology, that think, that are able to think for themselves. Obviously they are with each other in society, but many of the decisions are not defending this or the other, but taking a political attitude to a problem, which is how it is reflected in the footprint. I think that exists in most cases, I say, I repeat, from experience. Therefore, there are many issues where, by wanting to regulate and give transparency to something, we can spoil a dynamic, I think quite fluid, that we Members have with society. Is it necessary to publish agendas? That could be a complementary issue, although it would not assure us of anything either. But, well, whether I've met or not, I don't think it would also be a commitment from everyone, because we're not going to have a police officer following us to check that that agenda we're publishing is real. That could be a complementary thing and a further point that could perhaps help citizens to see the work that is beyond sitting here in the seats. Frankly, neither the lobbying system nor the lobbying system, as strictly legally conceived, fits into a parliamentary system like ours, less into groups with parliamentary discipline like ours and less into parties as ideological as this. In short, if we have to regulate the lobby, I think it's okay, let's rule it out, let's tell the government that there's the bottom line, not here. [[Rumors]] But we will have to start with the head, not with this because you and I here can throw away what we want, but then we already know what we have: what we can convince in these oratories that normally clash with the discipline of the parliamentary groups that are at the government's command. [[Addressing Mr. Campuzano i Canadés]] Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u17	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u18	Very late, ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin with one observation: the Spanish Government has made it clear how the private and particular interest outweighs the public interest and the general interest. Only in this way can the surrealist imposed on the sun be explained. This is the only way to explain why we are paying the most expensive light in Europe while the electricity companies have the greatest profits on the continent and that they have generated a debt of 30 billion euros to the state, to pay for the citizens, while the companies have earned more than 45 billion in the last ten years. Only thus is explained an unnecessary and ruinous project Castor or the Madrid radial highways, both participated by such - I don't know if it sounds to them - Florentino Pérez and that they have generated an expenditure to the citizens of more than 5 billion euros and more than 10 billion euros respectively. This alone explains an unorbited military expenditure that has generated more than 30 billion euros to buy an absolutely unnecessary weaponry. I would like to remind you of the words of the Secretary of State for Defence, Mr. Constantino Mendez, in 2010, which perfectly expressed the situation; he said: We should never have acquired systems that we were not going to use for conflict situations that did not exist and, worse, with funds that we did not have either then or now. In short, ladies and gentlemen, if these expenses did not meet the need, the general interest, what were they responding to, what were they responding to? For they were responding - I will tell you very clearly - to the interest of certain companies, companies that have direct access to the government, either via Moncloa or via Bernabéu stage. But, then, the key question we should ask ourselves is: how does the government prioritize particular interest over and above the general interest? How is private interest prioritized in the public interest? How do you do it? The answer, from our point of view, is, uniquely and exclusively, in envelopes. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in the envelopes, in the B, B accounts of Bárcenas; in the revolving doors of the former presidents of the government and of former ministers in the electrics or as the rotating door of Pedro Morenés who, when he is not approving large arms projects as secretary of state or minister of defense, is working as advisor to the large companies that benefit from these contracts. [[Applauds]] In short, in Spain there is structural corruption, corruption already ins-ti-tu-ci-na-li-zada and, what is even worse, is to a large extent the culprit of the debt and the culprit of the cuts. Therefore, regulating the influence of lobbies on political life is a real democratic necessity and so Republican Left demanded it in the form of an amendment to the Law on Transparency and Good Government. Again, the People's Party rejected this democratic progress. How curious that the party that most responds to the interests of the big lobbies would refuse to regulate them! How curious! However, the regulation of lobbies must go far beyond its parliamentary register, far beyond the proposed reform that is likely to be adopted today. The regulation of lobbies should be an opportunity to open up the normalized and daily access of social organizations to parliamentary activity, and to that end it is also necessary to make available to social organizations the timely and timely resources for parliamentary assistance, so that these organizations can influence political life and do so effectively, as well as the large lobbies also have the capacity to hire legal or political law firms to report and to draw up legislative proposals. A parliament must put the appropriate tools in the hands of civil society so that they can also convey their own legislative proposals. I'm done. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation of lobbies must not only and exclusively serve to try to have a record of their access to parliamentary groups, which also, but not only to that, but must be, and is very important, a tool to stimulate parliamentary policy and ultimately to promote participatory democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u19	Mr Salvador has the floor for Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, since it is a question of changing the Rules of Procedure of the House, it would also not be wrong to include any measure against the political absenteeism of certain Members of Parliament which I do not know why they are not here today, precisely when we are closing this brief parliamentary term. On the other hand, I want to say that the 2013 Eurobarometer said that 77% of Spaniards understand that corruption is part of the country's business, 84% of people think that bribery and connections are crucial to access public services, and 91% of entrepreneurs also think that there is a too direct relationship between money and politics. Our country has been spoiled by the seams of trust, those seams of trust that have allowed corruption to occur in virtually all institutions. We have seen that honourable people representing Governments have had to be arrested, have had to be made available to the courts and from there leave their office and public office. We have seen how virtually all State institutions have been polluted and, therefore, one of the fundamental objectives at this next stage must be to restore confidence in the political word and regain credibility also in politicians. Those who have been affected by multiple cases of corruption also have to make a decision: whether to fight corruption decisively and face it in their ranks or try to put the fan to spread it to everyone and make us partners. It is a decision that those who are being told, surely know who I mean. At the Madrid Assembly, El Mundo published on November 20, the regulation of the lobby is a healthy initiative of institutional transparency. The initiative to regulate the lobby, contained in the investment pact for the Madrid Community between the People's Party and Citizens, is a good example of the healthy effects for democratic regeneration that Albert Rivera's formation is achieving with his agreements. The creation of a register of interest groups in the House, without looking at what already exists in the Brussels Parliament, was a good initiative. We agree with the initiative that is being put forward here in order to be able to make such a reform, precisely of the Rules of Procedure of the House, and to be able to include lobbies with their regulations, but it has to be much better, as the rapporteur of the proposal has said. There are steps that can be taken to deepen this. It is also essential that this affects not only the Congress of Deputies and the Senate, which affects not only the legislative portion, but also the executive portion, the Government of the nation. All the autonomous communities have to have their respective lobbies registered, just as Citizens promoted it to be done in the Community of Madrid. It is fundamental to regulate the lobby. APRI, the Association of Institutional Relations Professionals, is the first to lobby to try to regulate it. If we regulate the lobby we will increase the tools for their control, increase transparency, decrease corruption and increase the benefits of those people who have less access to parliamentary groups and those citizen platforms that need to lobby. This participation, which is guaranteed in articles 9 and 23.1 of the Constitution, which state that citizens will have the right to participate directly in public affairs affecting them, is another way of regulating it, of giving them entry and of making them compete on equal terms with large companies. Citizens, therefore, believe that we must promote a culture of lobbying. But what's not lobbying? Lobby is not receiving 42 million out of 100 million euros of anonymous grants. Lobby is not receiving 3 % commissions to be able to award public policies. Lobby is not to give up the political space of your group in the European Parliament so that someone who is not registered, such as Arnaldo Otegi, defends ETA prisoners and asks for their release. [[Applauds]] That's not lobbying and that's why we have to regulate it. Transparency International, in a study of 19 countries, placed Spain at the 18th position. He said we only had 21 points out of 100 possible, but if we analyze this study of Transparency International we realize that they are using three items. Firstly, transparency, where we are exclusively given 10%. Secondly, that of integrity, where - we are not so bad - they give us 35%. And thirdly, equal access, which brings us 17%. But if we look at the breakdown, we realize that if we improve the registration and disclosure of information by lobbyists, the monitoring of the sanctions registration or the legislative footprint, where we have 0%, we will improve in transparency. If we improve the code of conduct for lobbyists, self-regulation of the code of ethics, we will increase in integrity and increase our score. And if we facilitate the composition of expert groups in bodies, we will also increase equal access. We will therefore be improving policy, our ability to ensure that we are all on an equal footing, to facilitate greater participation, to have greater transparency, to eradicate corruption and to address a long-standing problem. We do not agree with those who say that regulating lobbies is scary, that it doesn't make much sense, that you have to take many precautions. What has to be feared is how many people, after their political life, eventually become part of large boards of directors of large multinationals or become top executives of many companies. That is what has to scare us to see what kind of legislation has been passed in the previous moments. And I do not agree that this is a plenary in which there is longing and nostalgia. No, this is a plenary of full strength, in which we ratified those who understood that Parliament had to be respected until the last day, that this bill had to enter and be treated with sufficient rigour, that absenteeism was not at all justified and that parliamentary policy had to be faced until the last day because the citizens who pay us the salary, those who have put us in this Chamber, are demanding it from us. There are only two culprits at this time from our point of view of not having reached that agreement that was necessary and peremptory. On the one hand, those of absenteeism, those who distribute the fan, those who do not have any interest since the first day this legislature walks, the same one that said no to his majesty the king, the same one who has not said anything positive all this time and yet does not want anyone to question the place in any way because surely he has done much to deserve it. On the other hand, those who had been in the election campaign since the first day and who made impossible proposals that knew no one could accept. They too are now launched into their campaign; they both started it on Sunday. But Citizens will work during these two months with great effort and effort to improve the results, to be more influential and, above all, so that the Spaniards do not have to endure that there is another legislature with a result like this one. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u21	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elizo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that at the moment any effort by transparency mechanisms in the decision-making process is of the utmost importance. The involvement of interest groups is increasingly evident in legislative results and even in the formation of governments. We are all able to appreciate their influence in regulations that are completely distorted towards the interest of pressure groups, when not completely absurd and contrary to the general interest and development of our country. Remember, for example, the current regulation of this legislative sprawl known as the sun tax, which, in order to favor the electric oligopoly, seeks to limit the use and development of solar energy in Spain. All this while in northern Europe all public administrations are trying to boost and support this source of energy. The Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States continues to be forged in the darkest of the institutions on both sides of the Atlantic, and 92% of the meetings that the committee held under strict closed doors were with corporate pressure corporations. It could be that a regulation of interest groups helps to normalise the transparent presence of those sectors legitimately affected by legislative action, although it is also true that, as we know, in Spain the influence has been carried out by procedures that we could call more direct. Who needs lobbies when they have rotating doors that guarantee that politics is only the intermediate step for a golden retreat on a board of directors? Who needs lobbies when they can buy a defamation campaign in the courts? [[Applauds]] In Spain everything is too related. One of the things that is showing Panama's so-called roles is that here the regulation of revolving doors or tax havens should come before the regulation of interest groups. In any case, we can only be in favour of any regulation that contains, as is the case with this legislative proposal, the compulsory registration, its transparency and the establishment of a code of ethics. But also bear in mind that the great powers and their agencies, the great economic gurus, should not be the only ones invited to participate in legislative action. It is therefore also necessary to establish mechanisms for the active participation of citizens and civil society in the decision-making process. The legitimacy of influence groups should not be because of their character as groups of factual power as we are used to, but because they are affected by legislation, so that all interests - also those of the majority - can be heard in a transparent, public and regulated manner. After all, we must not be naive. The desire to influence public decisions on the part of individuals or groups is somewhat consistent with public life. However, access to political decision-making centres must be guaranteed to all citizens and not only to those who can have the financial resources to go to the professional formulas of the major lobbying agencies. We come from governments that have exchanged the political decision for economic and media support, where some parties cannot enter the Government unless they can see what was being done there. There are not enough paper destroyers to hide the presence of the major agencies and boards of directors in the legislative initiatives of the ministries. Who can be surprised that your government doesn't want to appear? They say it's because he's in office and, indeed, rule in office is what they've actually been doing in recent years. Its primaries are made on the boards of directors and if you now want to stop doing those functions do not be surprised that there is another party supposedly new that wants to continue them. [[Applauds]] As the cartoonist Miguel Brieva said, we do not want a Parliament with politicians that is the mobile part of an immobile system. We must remember that in the Constitution there is hardly any real and effective mechanism for controlling citizen participation other than that of political parties. In the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, it is essential to encourage political participation of citizens who are not limited to voting every certain time, but to regulate to allow access to groups of stakeholders and affected by the legislation. We advocate not only to reduce the number of signatures needed for popular legislative initiative, but once these have been achieved it must be debated by the plenary of this House, such as the participation of its promoters, instead of being thrown into the backseat of Congress as has been usual so far. It is necessary to raise the debate of the participation of lobbies in Congress as a modern democratic expression to the ground that naturally absorbs it, that is, that of the citizen participation both individual and collective in the daily action of the State, to open the debate of participatory democracy as necessary complement to the representative one. A law of citizen participation is therefore necessary that recognizes participation as a right and makes available to individuals, social groups and legitimate business interests mechanisms that guarantee the greatest possible permeability of the law of the public authorities and of decision-making, responsibility and, most importantly, of the impact analyses of legislative action and, in short, control of public management. A democratic regulation of interest groups from the point of view of the participation of all legitimate interests can end up being an interesting tool against the other lobbyism, that opaque lobbyism, so well known to all; the one that is done on the stage of the stadiums, on the rotating doors that lead to the boards of directors, which fills the envelopes that end in Panama. Therefore, the approach of opening a register of interest groups and lobbies as part of the necessary reform of Parliament's Rules of Procedure can be the start of a splendid anti-corruption tool. It is necessary to seize the opportunity to make a real regulation of these lobbies as a fundamental part of a law of citizen participation which regulates the functioning of these interest groups, not only from a State perspective, but also from a Community perspective, defining to what extent state regulation must have an impact on a better defence of public and private self-interest, of large groups and of citizens in the area of European Union decision-making. As is well known, the registration of European Union interest groups remains voluntary and, as such, needs to be reformed. As long as the lobbies are not obliged to register and the voluntary nature of the register is maintained, the citizens will remain deprived of a precise image of the activity of the lobbies in Brussels; an area in itself deprived of most democratic controls and perhaps more and more decisive in the lives of the people. As the Alliance for the Transparency of Lobbyism and Ethical Regulation reminds us, there seems to be an inverse relationship between the real importance of the lobby and its willingness to register in a transparent manner in the community register. I'm done. Today we vote in favour of taking into consideration the legislative proposal to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies for the creation of the register of interest groups or lobbies with the view put in their effective configuration as a tool of transparency. The citizens of this country are tired of democratic cosmetics and paper transparency, but we also vote in favour of the view placed on their democratic configuration, as a space for participation, where the interest of the people can be found above the great powers. Regulation, transparency and participation can be great tools to compensate for the actions of those who do not run for election, but end up deciding what citizens' representatives legislate or even who governs them. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, what a doubt it is that if it were not for the pressure groups, those who remove and put governments, they would most likely already be ruling with us in a real government of change. [[Applauds]] What is doubtful is that what prevented Mr Sánchez from forming a genuine government of change, a government that banishes the policies of the PP, has been the pressures that have been exerted on his party, pressures from which you, unfortunately for most Spaniards, have not been able to get out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Elizo. Mrs Lozano has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs de Podemos, as you are barely sitting on the table and running up, does not give you time to tell us what pressures have been exerted on the Socialist Group. If they lasted a little longer at the negotiating table, they might have told us and we would all have known. I agree, Mr Campuzano, with the feeling of melancholy, that today is a sad day for Spanish parliamentarianism. Of course, it would make me very strange not to mention the anomaly of this session that we might call pre-mortem. When the word failure is today in the headlines of all the newspapers, we all have to feel that collective failure. However, I can also say that each and every member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has a very clear conscience. We are aware that we have done our job well, that we have tried everything we could try to do and that we have opened up a way of doing politics that we believe is what citizens are demanding at the moment, that is the policy of dialogue, of cooperation, of helping to generate these dynamics of collaboration and, above all, of stopping looking at our navel and working to solve the most serious problems that Spanish people have. I think I have understood from the first day that this new parliamentary configuration is a sum of impotence would have been far more fruitful for all. It's a sum of impotence because no one won the election, no matter how hard some people get. [[A Member of Parliament: Ah!, right?]] The spokesman for the German Government, who on the same night on 20 December said that he did not know who to congratulate in Spain. - The Germans say, that in other things you follow them with great rigor. And it is a sum of impotence also of a political nature because this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, is divided in half, in two, there is neither a majority of the left nor a majority of the right, no matter how much some try to include under the label of the left a party such as the PNV - surely your voters in Neguri disagreed, Mr Esteban - or a party such as the one proposing this initiative, which in the previous legislature voted in favour of tax amnesty with the People's Party. In any case, we're not sharing the blame. The Spaniards are smart enough to share them and the facts have become very clear and very visible. However, it is necessary to note that we are living at a serious time. Contrary to what some of the speakers have said, today the House suffers more weakness than at many times in our recent history, and the worst is that it is a self-inflicted weakness, a weakness caused from within. On the one hand, for those who have refused to speak - and that which comes to a House, to a Parliament, whose etymological significance comes to speak, which indicates that what we come here to speak to - and, on the other hand, for those who have also denied this House the most elementary work of any Parliament in a democracy, which is to control the government. I come to this, Mr Campuzano, because even though this initiative is going to fall, it is worth talking about and not talking about a regulation in the most bureaucratic sense of the term - that word regulation that poets would never use - but thinking that when we talk about the regulation we talk about the rule of democracy, not of course the one but one of the essential ones. It is very pertinent to propose a reform of the Rules of Procedure, which is of course related to democratic regeneration; however, the ambition of your speech is not in line with the ambition of your initiative, Mr Campuzano. We are very short on his approach, which is strictly restricted to a parliamentary register of lobbies, which might seem to be that we want to put the bandage where the wound is not, as one of the spokespersons has said. It is essential to regulate the lobby where decisions are made, and given the dysfunctions that exist in this House, and that we agree that they weaken it with respect to the Executive Power, if we put the control of the lobbyists here, but we do not change anything from the rest of the functioning of Congress and the decisions are still made entirely in the ministries, we will have done nothing. We could even deceive citizens by filling our discourse with grandiose words such as transparency, fair access to the sources of power, etc., when in reality everything would continue to happen in the ministries. There are many bad practices that would not end this initiative; practices that, by the way, are not referred to in it, such as the capture of the regulator, conflicts of interest, equal treatment and access to power centres. We think that bringing the record exclusively here could amount to wanting to camouflage the real weight of the lobbies in the ministry, without doing anything else of all the reform that we believe needs to be done in these Courts. In that reform, I say to you that we will vote in favour, because if this were dealt with we would put all this as amendments, and with those amendments we would make a Congress as we want, which we would like: a Congress in which, instead of ritual debates, there would be a lively dialectic, creative exchanges with which we would be able to attract citizens to the national political conversation; a Congress which would be a much stronger, much more independent institution, where the exercise of control over the Government would be a real accountability and not part of a predictable ritual; in which there would be spontaneous questions in the session of control over the Government; in which the times of the parliamentary groups would be more balanced with those of the Government; in which it would be easier to create commissions of inquiry and, of course, in which, never, a government that refused to submit to parliamentary control could continue to call itself a democratic government. A strong Congress would need to have its own study service; it would need to be much more transparent; it would need to have an open Parliament plan and citizen participation; it would need to make the information much more understandable; it would also need to interact much better with the European institutions. Precisely because we believe in representative democracy, we believe in all these reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, I will surprise you; some of the speakers have mentioned these demands for transparency, but all these measures that I have just said with regard to the reform of the Rules of Procedure and the reform of Congress have already been voted in this House. The vote was taken when Mr Sánchez's investiture was voted on, and many of those who have just spoken have voted against these measures, because all these measures were in the agreement with Citizens and would now be under way if you had wanted to. [[Applauds]] It's not going to be like that, though. This legislature will soon end and an interesting political proposal, such as that made by Democracy and Freedom, will end up in the graveyard of the fallen initiatives. Unfortunately - I finish, ladies and gentlemen - the real hopes of change, of doing politics in another way and of doing politics in a way that does not suit all of us as tactics are buried in that cemetery this week. The hopes of collaboration and dialogue and the hope of many people to re-trust politics and to be deluded by politics are buried. And instead of all that, there is a political wound that I hope is properly attributed to blame and responsibility. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Lozano. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u26	Good afternoon and thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was telling the spokesman for Democracy and Freedom that he had a strange feeling when he came up to this rostrum; that Spain was different. I have it too, Your Honor. In the rest of Europe, it usually governs the party that wins the elections. In this country, unfortunately, no. That's what makes us different from the rest of the countries, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] I thank the members of Democracy and Freedom for the initiative, which is undoubtedly full of experience, I have no doubt. And I am announcing the vote in favour of the People's Group because we agree with the substance and we could agree with the approach, with many of the things they have said. I want to make a point to Citizens and Podemos: there was a policy before you came to Parliament, here initiatives have been taken - I see that you feel -. The philosophy of the government in the previous legislature was precisely to advance in transparency and was made, ladies and gentlemen... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u28	I understand that the truths sometimes bother, but the realities are objective because in this House the Law regulating the high office of the General Administration of the State was passed - you were not - that hardens the way to perform the public office, and the Law on Transparency of Access to Information and Good Governance was passed; it is a law that has cost only forty years, and it has been a government of the People's Party that has brought it to this House. And it is an important law, ladies and gentlemen, because for the first time we regulate access to citizens' information and active advertising to which administrations are subject. For the first time, we have access to information from institutions that were not possible before, such as the Royal House, the Court of Auditors, the Banco de España, companies that so far did not provide information. But the most important thing in the handling of this law was the extended hand of the Government, the extended hand of the People's Parliamentary Group; a law which incorporated many amendments from the PNV Group, the CiU Group and, above all, the Socialist Group. Mrs Lozano, you have obviously not told them, but you have made a great deal of progress on that law, a law which, by the way, came from a preliminary draft submitted by the Socialist Group in which the lobbies were not regulated at all. These lobbies had disappeared from that preliminary draft law, as they had disappeared from the bill that Mrs Batet defended in this House at the beginning of this legislature. In neither case were the lobbies regulated. I insist, despite having incorporated many amendments, and in that doctrine which has been installed in this parliamentary term which is already over, which is the doctrine of 'no is no' and 'I defend my own and above the general interest, anything', the Socialist Group did not support that law. I share the fundamental approach that the proponent party has taken, because at the end of what we are talking about is to regulate groups of people with interests that also participate in political life and it is better to know who they represent, what they want, who they meet with and what they achieve and, above all, this must be done in terms of normality and democratic dialogue. In the end, when it is necessary to choose between the general interest and the interest of the groups, the general interest must always prevail. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, what I have not just understood here is the ease of some political groups to distinguish between good and bad. If you have answered, you will have seen that both Podemos and the United Left and some other political formation pose the initiative between good and bad, and of course, with the ease you have - mention has already been made of this issue - to distinguish between good and bad, how is it possible that from the United Left or from Podemos you would give wings to the terrorist Otegi?, how is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that yesterday he would be allowed to intervene in the House in Brussels? In the end you will have to ask if Otegi is good or bad, ladies and gentlemen; you will have to ask if you are whitening or not whitening all of ETA's bloody past. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must ask you whether you are with the victims or with the executioners, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] That is what you have to answer in this House; I am not going to answer it. I like - you know - the Spanish chorus. I keep that saying, "Tell me who you're with and I'll tell you who you are." Because I have no doubt that the Spaniards of this are not going to forget. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. I want to tell you something: this legislature is already history and this initiative - I say to the proposer - remains here. Certainly, we can reflect on how to improve democracy, in addition, without initiatives; simply with common sense. I will give you a few thoughts between now and 26 June; above all, I will give them to the Socialist Party. Mrs. Lozano said that the PSOE has the awareness of having done things right, and I leave her some thoughts. The first reflection to improve democracy is that it usually governs who wins the elections. The second reflection is that you have to have humility enough, when you have lost the elections, to sit with those who have won them, dialogue and try to take a country forward. [[Applauds]] The third reflection that I leave to the Socialist Party is that we must put the interests of this country, the interests of this House, and the personal and political interests, which are certainly legitimate, but we must have that generosity and greatness. The fourth reflection I want to leave to the Socialist Party is that governing at any price is not good. These Frankenstein coalitions that you have encouraged, sponsored, induced, to get the People's Party out of the institutions' governments are not on the right track. It is not a good partner, ladies and gentlemen, who promises the dawn of history, the sky on earth, and when he arrives at the institutions we already know what is happening; we are seeing in these days how absolute truths are dictated, how they begin to break finances and, above all, how people are tried to deal with what some call people and I like to call citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, improving democracy is defending the interests of this country and recognizing that Spain is a great democracy. We have been in the G-20 for more than ten years, we are part of the select club of democracies, so these speeches that are made about that there is no democracy here, about that democracy is imperfect or about that it is a failed state, should lead some to reflect on which partners they choose or who they reach. Finally, and before the President tells me that time is up, I want to say something more to the proponents, to the Democracy and Freedom Group: to improve democracy, what they should have done is not go up to this rostrum to defend this initiative, and I will explain why. Its approach is completely rupturist and independenceist, not to marry the Spanish Constitution, so it is very difficult to understand how they say they want to change institutions when what they want is to destroy the State. Believe me, that's complicated to understand. Ladies and gentlemen, I have another thought: if any party in this House - I am referring to the Socialist Party - thought that ridding the Spaniards of the People's Party would be a reward for the services provided, I believe that what they are going to receive is a public signal for their responsibility for having activated the biggest process of institutional degradation that this House has known. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u29	Thank you, Mr. Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u30	We now turn to the second item on the agenda, concerning the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Basque Parliamentary Group, amending Law 9/1968 of 5 April on official secrets. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the presentation of this initiative, Mr Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today he told the press the spokesman of the People's Party, Mr Rafael Hernando, with his usual salter, that this seemed like the Titanic orchestra playing as if nothing had happened while the boat sank. We present a bill here, but I assure you that we have every intention of saving ourselves from this shipwreck, we will embark on the next package that comes out and we will play the music... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u33	...and, as this is going to be the same music that you're going to hear today, so you're going to get your ears done, because we're going back on the next boat. It must be said clearly, from the outset, that in this area of official secrets Spain is not homologable to its environment because of the way European legislation is in other countries, it is not homologable with regard to the international treaties and provisions it has signed, and it is not homologable that a democracy is still based on a law adopted at the Francoist era, although it had a slight pre-constitutional touch. This already warns that something has to be working wrong, when this law has not yet been amended. And in that sense - as time goes by - there can be a violation of fundamental rights because of the lack of transparency and the denial of the right to information. I insist, we are talking about a 1968 law, partially amended on 7 October 1978, but nothing more for the lifting of the veil with regard to classified matters, allowing in its case the knowledge by the Courts. Nothing else was changed. And then this has not come to an end, as it should have happened. We find situations like there is a very important group of historians who take their hands to the head and say how it is possible that the Ministry of Defence refuses to declassify 10,000 documents from 1936 to 1968, which theoretically were already ready for declassification. But this, which was apparently to happen in May 2012, did not come into effect. Or ask how it is possible that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has declared reserved or secreted virtually all of its documentation, including the historical funds in its archive. We are talking about documents from the 15th to the 20th centuries. - Not even Spain was yet, it would belong to some concrete crown. Well, there are still documents of those that are regarded as secrets. This shows the level of this law and the need to modify it. Many historians have protested, but also many citizens, about the lack of access to documents and the impossibility of knowing what happened. How is it possible that on 15 October 2010 an agreement of the Council of Ministers, unpublished - of 2010 I am talking and therefore of the previous government, not of the PP but of the previous one even - was adopted, in which an extensive relationship was made of issues that cannot be public and that affect practically all documents relating to Spanish diplomatic relations? It is simply unacceptable, and even more so than this agreement was public. When ministers are asked what happens to this now in office, they say that there is actually not much content problem, and that they have no staff to declassify. And the answer we have to give to them is that it is no longer a question of having a person in the ministries who compares documents with documents and values the desirability or not of taking them out, that modern legislations - which can be approved in Europe, but also in the United States - set a time limit for the veil to be lifted and for the public to know what has happened. In fact, Spain is failing to comply with international instruments it has signed in the field of archival and documentation: recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on European archival communication policy or the Council of Europe's own Convention on Access to Public Documents. But it's okay here. We propose to amend this law, it must be amended. In our proposal, which is open to possible modifications by other groups, there is a clear premise, and that there has to be a temporary ceiling, a time when documents are automatically declassified. I insist, many of the documents of the Civil War and later remain hidden without being able to access them not only researchers but also the general public. I'll tell you about the Transition! Exactly the same thing. We have tried not to go to smaller tops, as in other countries, but to put something that could be more acceptable with some groups that might have reservations. In Spain, the law in force has a double classification and in that we did not want to enter; in other countries there are three or even four classifications of documents. In the Spanish case there is the reserved matter and the secret matter; that is how we have left it. Notice, in the United States, recently, it was changed to twenty years - until recently it was twenty-five - to make the documents public; in a country like the United States, which has very complex international relations. It is true that they have a very special category that they have to justify, but obviously in international matters the things that the United States does - excuse me - are not comparable to those that it does Spain; there are some documents that can be exempted, but they are scarce, counted, the vast majority declassify themselves to twenty years. In the case of the United Kingdom it is thirty years, and it is being talked about lowering it to twenty. In Spain, it is to be hoped that the Council of Ministers will consider declassifying the documents so that they can be made accessible. This can't be like this. What we are proposing is this: in the case of reserved subjects, ten years; and in the case of secret subjects, twenty-five years, which can be extended by the Council of Ministers for another ten years, that is, a total of thirty-five years, but this extension must be exceptional and of course must be justified, it is not appropriate to remain at the whim of the relevant Council of Ministers. The reasons must be given. And if the deadline passes, there is automatic cancellation of your secret. If a document is provided in a session of the General Courts, either the Congress or the Senate, in a session that is not secret, it is logical that automatic declassification and free access occur. Of course, we could also say that there are secret meetings here, but we may have to improve our functioning in the House because it is true that there is a Committee of Official Secrets but, frankly, neither I nor the predecessors of my group whom I have asked have ever seen classified secret documents. The information that is given in that Commission, without revealing anything - I never give press conferences, canutages or talk to journalists after those meetings -, I assure you that it is nothing of the other world, no official secret is revealed. Anything that looks like a film from another European country or from the United States is nothing like what happens in Spain's Official Secrets Commission. Therefore, we do have a task there; perhaps create a climate of confidence so that documents that are still classified can be seen there. In any case, if it occurs in a non-secret session, declassification should be automatic. In short, what we propose is that we adapt to the times, that we comply with the international commitments, that we be consistent with the transparency that we all say we defend, that in the country we can speak with normality of issues that seem still taboo today, having passed thirty-five years ago, and that citizens and researchers can learn about what really happened or some unknown details, some recent, but others that also give us news until the eighteenth century. Thank you very much, Mr President. We will continue to play the same music in the next Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u34	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. There's no turn against it. The Joint Group will also not intervene in the setting of positions. Therefore, Mr Xuclà, for the Catalan Parliamentary Group, has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this slimming legislature because of the lack of agreement between the political groups - even some of them have said that it was impossible to have a parliamentary arithmetic with legitimately elected citizens, this set of twenty-six so-called sovereignists - this afternoon of plenary session, the real reformist agenda is the one that our group proposes, a regulation of the lobby and interest groups, and the real reformist agenda this afternoon also marks the Basque Group with the indispensable need to amend the Official Secrets Act, the Francoist law of 1968, and the need to harmonize Spanish legislation with the agreement on access to information of the Council of Europe; agreement signed by Spain. With this, if we talk about reforms, about wanting to change things, about wanting to modernize what you have repeatedly proclaimed during these three months, consider our proposed vocation of transformation, of increasing the transparency of the State, of increasing the democratic health of the Spanish State. Ladies and gentlemen, opportunities have existed in the past. The People's Party Government has always been the flag of a law, the Transparency Act of 2013, where there is no doubt that the Official Secrets Act would have to be amended in order to be able to access secrets from the end of the Middle Ages and more than 10,000 documents that are still classified from 1936 to 1968. That opportunity was not taken advantage of and the absolute majority of the People's Party rejected repeated amendments tabled by some groups, including my parliamentary group. As it was a missed opportunity in the first legislature of President Zapatero, during the processing of the Historical Memory Law, to face the declassification of these documents that is still considered, after so many years, that they cannot see the light. We rely on the recommendations of Amnesty International and those agencies that have worked more on historical memory. You know that from fifty years old a document is already historical and that from fifty years old an object is already an antiquity; instead, we are talking about more than 10,000 documents that the technicians of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have considered perfectly ready to be declassified, and the three armies - Air, Land and Navy - have left ready to decalize information about the period 1936 to 1968 on deserters, banished, documents on the activity of censorship and material related to the former battalions, of work on concentration camps; a list that also includes documents relating to the activity of Spanish espionage at the dictatorship stage, plans of response to foreign invasions and information on Spanish policy during the Protectorate of Morocco or on the transfer of military material by the United States. Minister Chacón, when she was Minister of Defence in office, said yes to this declassification but basically endorsed the responsibility to Minister Morenes and this, on May 26, 2012, said that under no argument during her term as Minister of Defence would face the declassification of these documents. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we should look around to see what is happening in consolidated democracies and we will see how the regulatory framework, the Spanish regulatory framework, faces urgent reform. In Sweden there has been legislation since 1776 and it is considered impossible for a file to be completely classified, in any case they may be parts, specific sentences or specific paragraphs that violate the privacy of individuals. In the United States there is a principle of systematic declassification of documents after a maximum of twenty-five years and, in some security cases, an extraordinary period that can be extended to fifty years. In the United Kingdom, legislation provides for a maximum period of classification of reserved documents of 30 years, and at this very moment in the British Parliament there is a very lively debate to reduce this period of 30 to 20 years. Two British laws, the Public Registry Act and the Freedom of Information Act, regulate access to information in the United Kingdom. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this situation, what is the alternative? As Mr Esteban rightly pointed out, the alternative is a pre-democratic law, a clearly Francoist law, only reformed to incorporate the reserved funds but at a pre-constitutional stage and, since then, no reform, no democratic regeneration package has contemplated something appropriate, which is that the documents of the sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth centuries and this pack of 10,000 documents that the technicians of the Ministry of Defence say are ready to see the light can see it and not with arguments such as those of the Minister of Defence, which literally said that the dissemination of certain information could harm our country's diplomatic relations and harm third parties. Sometimes one wonders which third parties; if third parties from very close third countries. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, what is possible in other advanced democracies, which is to know the reality of the past, should also be possible here. Mr Esteban was commenting on me before the beginning of the session that thirty-five years of the coup d'état have now been completed - you are looking at twenty-five years plus ten years of extension - and I think that it would be time to know some documents about what happened on 23 February 1981; not only to teach visitors the same remains of the coup d'état - I think they were recently reconstructed in the last restoration - but to go to the depth, to the historical truth. Transparency Act 2013 without facing the revision of the Official Secrets Act; Historical Memory Act of the former socialist government without facing the declassification of documents. There is a manifesto of more than 3,000 researchers and historians from different Spanish universities who claim the need to know this truth in order to study our past in depth, in order to shed light on our past. We certainly think it is a good initiative and there is even a majority to take account of it, and I hope that the few months of this short term will have served to take account of some initiatives, but also to shape the foundations of a democratic system updated and that some taboos of the past will no longer be so from the next term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u36	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, keep an image, any citizen of the former German Democratic Republic, after a week of falling the Berlin Wall, could go to any Stasi police station and ask for any file, even if he was not involved in that file as a legal person. Compare. Or, for example, remember that in 2008 the Swiss State made a law late, very late, for a dozen of the 800 Swiss citizens who, violating Swiss laws, joined the international brigades and after a few years, when they returned, were repressed and imprisoned by the Swiss State; in 2008 Switzerland repaired the honours of these citizens. Compare. Compare all this with the Spanish State. Here we are still living not in opacity, but in Francoist darkness, because the law is certainly of 1968. By the way, do you know who signed the law's regulations? Carrero Blanco, who is in the sky. The law was then amended, but the law is pre-constitutional. Even Aznar, in 1996, tried to calendar the times and reach fifty years, but failed. The factual powers, which are children - I repeat - of the darkness, were then present and are present now. The declassification was attempted with all the ministers, with Eduardo Serra, with Narcís Serra, with Bono and when Carme Chacón arrived, a hope was opened; in fact, he undertook to declassify 10,000 documents. He did not do so and in 2011, when everything was already pointing out that the legislature was over and that the socialists had it wrong to win, we pressed Mr. Magariños, then director of the patrimony in all that affected the military documentation, and he came to tell us that there was no time, that the others would already do it, believing that the others were the members of the Socialist Party who would win the elections, but no, won the People's Party, with which we are where we were. In the meantime we have tried it many times; we tried it during the processing of the Historical Memory Act and we did not get it, we had asked that the archival policy of the Spanish State be approved to the rest of the States and we did not get it. It is true that in the end the Law of Historical Memory, a law that the Republicans do not validate and do not vote favorably, referred to putting all the documentation at the service of the citizenry, but all this generically since, in the end, what prevails is the capacity that the public authorities have, not the Council of Ministers. That is why we agree with this parliamentary initiative of the Basque Group, why is it only up to the Council of Ministers to decide whether a matter is classified or not? Here there are other powers, which are the ones who end up deciding what to declassify and what not. I'll give you an example, the guerrillas' case. Some 5,000 anti-fascists, anti-Franchists, many of them laureated by the French Republic because they fought in the resistance, who entered Leclerc in Paris and then continued to fight to end the fascist dictatorship. Not only have we never managed to get the Spanish Government, whether it was the Socialist Party or the People's Party, to recognize them legally, economically and institutionally - we have never done so - but still today the documentation - to compare with Switzerland and the German Republic - is reserved. Do you believe that as far as these anti-fascist guerrillas, who fought with weapons legitimately to overthrow the fascist dictatorship, laureates - I repeat - for all democracies, can be so shameless that still today... By the way, there are eight left and they will have to endure to read their names, because the last time we defended the guerrillas from this rostrum for the fourth time there were eighteen left and we had the honor, to your shame, to read their names. For today they will have to endure to read the names of the eight guerrillas, all of them of very advanced age, who still live, although, unfortunately, they will die soon. Do you know that you still can't access the documentation because you don't want the Civil Guard? And because all the documentation, which is in Ávila, that they pledged to declassify has not declassified it. It's true that there are resistances. There have been very important charges from the Civil Guard Corps that have said that guerrillas could not be recognized because there was a clash of weapons. Unfortunately, it is very possible; in fact, there were casualties in the Civil Guard and guerrilla forces. By the way, Spanish democracy has not had the shame of recognizing them as members of the non-regular forces of the Spanish Republican Army. Its names are: Camilo de Dios, Consuelo Rodríguez, Antonio Martínez and Francisco Martínez López, all of them from the guerrilla group of León and Galicia; Esperanza Martínez García and Angelina Martínez García, from the guerrilla group of Levante and Aragón; Nicanor Rozada, from the guerrilla group of Asturias; and Manuel de Cos, from the guerrilla group of Cantabria. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and the Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]] It is an honour for these people today to receive the warm applause of the deputies of this Congress. Remember that today we cannot allow the Army's information funds, all located in Avila's Military General Archive, to have not been declassified. That's where the guerrilla documentation is. Serve the example of guerrillas and let us extend it to so many citizens of the current Spanish state who deserve to end once and for all this darkness, the daughter of Francoism. Gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the People's Party, take the train of history once and for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u38	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a country is strong and prosperous when its institutions are strong and when citizens believe in and respect them. Respect for the law and the institutions emanating from it is a necessary condition for the day-to-day functioning of that common project, which is a nation. But it must also be recognized that this respect in democracy must be earned. Today, it is not enough to invoke inherited legitimacy, because public opinion demands not only that the institutions carry out their functions reasonably, but exemplary. When he does not find it, there is the disaffection and the just indignation that, unfortunately, can be the foreword of populism. One of the ways in which the institutions and the Government of a country gain the confidence and respect of its citizens is through the responsible exercise of transparency in their actions. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group is not going to fall into naivety or demagogy to claim that secrecy never has a place in government action or administration. However, such spaces of opacity, which are sometimes essential to safeguard the security or interests of the State, can never be used as an excuse to deprive citizens of democratic control over institutions that ultimately belong to them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce to you that my group will vote in favour of the proposal for a law brought to us today by the Basque Parliamentary Group on official secrets. The group and the party I represent in this rostrum are sincerely committed to the principle of transparency in institutions and also in politics, as has been recognized by Transparency International in giving us the highest score in its annual evaluation of all Spanish political parties. We do not think, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Group, that they could have some partisan or localist or tactical intention to promote this concrete initiative at this time, with so many pressing issues and the greatest social concern in our country, and that they have the frivolous intention to compete with populists and abertzales in their field. By the way, I make a point to point out that the above-mentioned respect for the law and the institutions, also the European ones, is wrong to sympathize with whitening a terrorist such as Arnaldo Otegi, who shows no regrets, and to allow him to walk around them to become an ETA lobbyist. [[Applauds]] We are confident that the same principle of respect for and demand for the law will guide the institutions of the State today, which will motivate our affirmative vote in the debate on this initiative. This is an objectively obsolete and pre-constitutional law of 1968, but we must make an update in a calm way to achieve proper regulation on such a sensitive issue. If we compare other similar laws in our environment, we will find that Italy used in 2007 to jointly regulate the issue of official secrets while creating an information system for State security that was previously regulated in a 1977 law. We therefore take the opportunity to reform our legislation, but we note the need to revise the proposed initiative. As an example, we need to address the timing and form of declassification of information. The United Kingdom declassifies its documents after 30 years. Switzerland does not classify any document, as we mentioned earlier, but only the data included in it, and each type of information is given a specific expiry, up to a maximum of seventy years for information on the health of persons or their safety. In the United States, national archives and document management are responsible for disclosing secret documents every 50 years, not every 25 years, Mr Esteban. It is also necessary to assess with caution the way in which the Chambers have access to official secrets and the possibility of declassification of information; this issue must be addressed in line with a reform of the Rules of Procedure in order to give concrete expression to the regulation contained in the Presidency resolution of 11 May 2004. It is also necessary to analyse in detail the recognition of the Council of Ministers as the only body that can classify certain information. Similarly, we find it appropriate to recognize the possibility of judicial review of decisions on the classification of documents, a doctrine assumed by our Supreme Court in its judgment on the documents of the Cesid, judgement of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court of 4 April 1977, which in the United States had already been affirmed in the famous case The United States versus Richard Nixon. Ladies and gentlemen, as I told you at the beginning of this speech, we in Citizens understand that institutions can only function properly when citizens see them as legitimate and worthy of respect. To this end, those of us who are present in them, whether from the Government or from a seat, we must set an example, we must be a mirror in which citizens want to recognize themselves and not shield ourselves in due respect in order to act with impunity or contempt for democratic guarantees. Unfortunately, our country has a long history of disrespect and institutional loyalty, which is often manifested by both extremes of the ideological spectrum. The constitutional period that we started in 1978 has been, in general terms, an exception, but the tendencies of each other seem to arise at certain times, such as the current one, in which the citizens have given us a clear mandate of agreement, of renouncing the maximum positions, of negotiation and of consensus precisely when our action as representatives of the will expressed in the ballot box is subject to particular vigilance by the public opinion that demanded to end the uncertainty and resume the full institutional functioning of the country, which demanded, ladies and gentlemen, that we do our work. On the one hand, we have those who promote total transparency, although what we observe is rather the permanent spectacle. But it is difficult for them to apply the story to themselves, to the extent that they are able to get away from public information or, even stranger in them, from television for a week because of internal problems that they intend to keep secret. Just see the countries where they have counseled and which inspire them to understand the philosophy that we might expect in their use of official secrecy. In Venezuela, the current legislation allows any public information to be declared confidential without any provision for declassification. But if it is to fear the damage of populism to the institutions, what about those who present themselves as their defenders and pervert them daily by occupying them and using them at their will, because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, it is very difficult to present themselves as guarantors of order and respect for legality in the institutions when you yourselves despise them as active and passive almost every day. Today we vote for a bill on official secrets, but you put the legitimacy of the institutions at risk every day in the light of the day and without any secret about their actions. It is very unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen, to present themselves as guarantors of legality when the Government in office has declared itself in rebellion and has refused to submit to the control of this legitimately and democratically constituted House. I remind you that it is a House that emanates from the will and votes of the Spaniards of 20 December, and it is enough to look at their bench and see the clamorous absences to understand the respect that these votes deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no secret that the government has decided on its own and that there is no risk of being subject to any control. Nor is it any secret that when his majesty the king commissioned Mr. Rajoy to attempt the formation of a government, his candidate, ladies and gentlemen, said no to the king and all the Spaniards. And it is no secret that since then he has been hiding waiting for an election that will finally come out to all the very expensive Spaniards, in money and at the expense of the institutions, but to which Mr Rajoy trusts his political survival. This is no secret either, ladies and gentlemen. And if we talk about secrets, let us also remember that citizens learn before certain unrecognizable secrets - of, fortunately, now ex-government members - by the investigations of the press that by the impartial action of the Ministry of Finance. If Mr Rajoy and Mr Montoro depended, Mr Soria would continue to be a minister today, while millions of Spaniards fulfilled their fiscal obligations. Perhaps Mr Rajoy and Mr Montoro believe that protecting Mr Soria's secrets is protecting the state, but I am afraid that most citizens do not share that view. Because neither is it any secret, ladies and gentlemen, the partisan use they have made of the institutions. Mr Montoro, without going any further, seems to believe that the Ministry of Finance is his particular courtship and that, instead of using his resources for the public interest, he can put them at the service of his party, his boss or himself, and cast suspicion on his opponents and political colleagues rather than impartially investigate. Precisely to avoid inconvenient investigations by members of your party, you are able to use at your will institutions such as the Senate and the figure of the hanging, further contributing to undermining your prestige. All of that, ladies and gentlemen, is entrepreneurship, but it's no secret. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. A century ago, a conservative politician, Antonio Maura, asked the politicians for light and stenographers. Light to put an end to politics in the shadows and stenographers so that the parliamentary debate would be public and transparent. In the 21st century, the conservative party of this House seems to be not up to its illustrious predecessor. We, from the political centre, want a policy without shadows and institutions that are strong and recognized by the citizens, and that is why we will vote in favour of this bill. But we also ask the rest of the parties to contribute to the prestige of these institutions or, at least, not to insult them on a daily basis. They have cost the effort and pain of many Spaniards throughout our history. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u40	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u41	Good evening. Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. We are here to talk about one of the most important issues that the Congress of Deputies has dealt with in the short term, transparency, and more in detail, what the treatment of state secrets will receive in the coming years. We are here to begin the process of reforming an improper law of a state that claims to be democratic; a state that denies the right to know our history and that brings us back to dark times in this country. We are here to reform a law that does not deserve the days we live in plagued with fears, and we will courageously vote in favour of amending this law of official secrets. Hobbes said that man lived in permanent war with man and that that is why the state, the Leviathan, should be afraid; fear and I were born twins, Hobbes relates referring to the state. We see a lot of Hobbesian thought in this House. We felt it before we got to it, but now that we've spent several months with you, we're totally convinced. Some of you still believe that fear is the one who will keep order. They do not realize that the paradigm has changed and that the order will now be brought by democracy, participation, transparency, accountability, the Government's relationship with popular sovereignty. I will refer briefly to the law - which has already been mentioned in this Congress - that we are trying to reform, although some certainly know it well. This is a law that smells like naphthaline. It is a Francoist law, but not in the metaphorical sense of the term, but in the literal sense. As mentioned above, it is Law 9/1968 and in its first line it does not refer to the Constitution, but rather to the fundamental laws; yes, those where the Law of Succession to the Head of State or the Law of Principles of the National Movement was located and which, in its explanatory statement, refers to the political control of the National Council of the Movement, not of the Congress of Deputies or of the Senate, but of the National Council of the Movement. The only reform of the law took place months before the Constitution was adopted. It seems that its editors were in a hurry to regulate State secrets and to leave it all tied and well bound before there was a constitutional change that could lead to social change and political change; before the constituent incorporated articles - as I recall - such as article 20, which states that the right to freely communicate and receive information is recognized and protected, or article 105 on the right of citizens to access administrative records and records, except as regards the security and defence of the State - the article points out - but at no time does it create an eternal clause of secrecy, but its scope is limited, has to affect the security and defence of the State now, not fifty years ago. And it's not just a pre-constitutional law, but it's probably also a unconstitutional law. In some of the few accidental opportunities that the Constitutional Court has had to refer to the Official Secrets Act, such as Judgment 31/2014 or Judgment 111/2011 - by the way, with regard to Rafael Vera and Luis Roldán - it has done so in an effort to ensure that fundamental rights are not violated by the extensive application of the law. But in other cases, such as Judgment 118/1998, on an application for amparo lodged by 67 members of this Congress, the Court had to abide by the letter of the Official Secrets Act and take the view that, according to the literal wording of the text, there might be restrictions on the access of parliamentarians in matters classified as reserved. The reform of the law is therefore essential to facilitate democratic control. But perhaps if the Constitutional Court were to carry out a detailed study on the constitutionality of the law, it would declare many of its unconstitutional precepts, when it came into conflict with constitutionally protected rights such as article 20 or article 105, to which we have already referred. And what does the controversial law currently say? That not only does the Government have the capacity to declare a reserved matter, but that the Board of Chiefs of Staff can also do so! An organ that no longer exists, ladies and gentlemen! That decision made sense when we lived in an authoritarian regime and there were things to hide; things we now want and need to know. Today, the decision as to whether or not a document is declassified is taken by the same body that declared it secret. Therefore, the secret character is kept forever until someone understands that a particular document cannot continue to be classified and asks for its opening. On rare occasions, access to it is done arbitrarily, taking refuge in this pre-constitutional, and probably unconstitutional law, which would make Hobbes himself blush, and which has little similarity to our environment. Some cases have been mentioned here, but it is worth repeating the American case, where through the first amendment of the Constitution a right to know has been created jurisprudentially. Imagine, a right to know! Within a maximum of twenty years any American citizen may know any secret or confidential document. Reference has also been made to German legislation, which understands that no State act that violates a constitutionally protected right can be concealed. Why deny the knowledge of history? What are you afraid of? We're not afraid of anything. We lost many things; among them, we lost fear and, therefore, we have here, ladies and gentlemen, because we lost fear. [[Applauds]] When this Parliament asked the Government to declassify documents from 1931 to 1978, the Minister of Defence, absent here, denied this request by alluding to the fact that it was not considered a priority and that the technical and personal means necessary to carry out - and I quote textually - such a difficult task were not available. We are talking about hundreds of documents that sleep in dark archives such as that of Simancas or the Headquarters of the Defence Staff or the Military General Archive of Madrid. There are thousands of names, acts committed during Francoism and already in the democratic regime to which no one can access. Knowledge of these documents could give us a lot of light about who we were, who we are and who we want to be, because to build our history many researchers have to access foreign archives like the British, as they find no way to get to our classified documents. Because it is not about papers, the papers are dead matter; it is about people, names, families, men and women, poets, poets shot during the Civil War and whose bodies were never found; it is about people who want to know more about what happened at the time, if there were torture, if there were ill-treatment, if there were extrajudicial executions and who were behind those decisions. Therefore, yes to reform so that secret documents can be declassified, we owe it to history, to the truth, to those families, to that country and to its people, because, let us remember, never again a country without its people. [[Applauds]] Cicero said that not knowing what has happened before us is like being incessantly children, that is, living in naivety, and surely many of you don't like the recent history of this country or at least don't want to remember it; they prefer to live or live in naivety of what we hear from some of the outreach books or some television programs. We not only want to remember it, but we want to know it better. That is the difference between those of the old paradigm, who deny access to information to forget, and those of the new paradigm, who understand that without that knowledge it is impossible to make firm progress. One cannot forget what has not been known, and in this House there are many politicians of the old paradigm. Those of us who have come new to this Parliament have done so from a new paradigm, and where some wanted obscurantism, we want light and stenographers; where some wanted secrecy, we want transparency, democratic control. We want to know the past, what we are building today. No more secrets, no more reserved papers, no more ignorance of our past. We demand knowledge of history as a way of creating public debate and growing up as a people. We may not like what we get to know, but we'll have to live with it and do it to great honor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u42	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Rallo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. It will be the last session of this short legislature, but it is my first time; it is the first time I have come up to this rostrum and I have to confess that it is an exciting honour to intervene here, at the headquarters of the representation of the sovereignty of the Spanish people. At the same time, in view of the imminent dissolution of this House, I cannot fail to share with your ladies and gentlemen the feeling of frustration and impotence that generates the impossibility of us undertaking the enormous task of social, political and institutional reconstruction that the Spanish had entrusted to us. I'm sure it's a shared feeling for many of you. The Basque Group's initiative, which we are discussing now, is a good example. I am already in favour of the Socialist Group taking this bill into consideration. It could not be otherwise, because the Socialists have been supporting all the initiatives that during the last legislature have advocated the reform of the Official Secrets Act. It is a law - as has already been said repeatedly - pre-constitutional - of 1968, recalled the deputy Martínez Dalmau - whose preamble even still evokes the Fundamental Laws, the Spanish Courts, the National Council of the Movement. In addition, it is an old law, as old as its development regulations still today, in the era of encryption of information, obliges the custody of the secret material by means of a safe or archive cabinet equipped with disk combination locks. However, it is a politically and constitutionally sensitive law, which was subject to the necessary but minimal modifications for its sufficient adaptation to the constitutional framework in the near future in 1978; a law which, following the 1978 reform and the adoption of successive resolutions of the Presidency of this House, has enabled access to and parliamentary control of classified information; a law which, among other shortcomings and limitations, has neither avoided the jurisdictional conflicts that remain in our memory nor prevented government obstruction of access to thousands of classified documents relating to the Civil War. It is therefore not surprising that successive governments of democracy have expressed their willingness to reform it and have even developed various projects. It is less understandable, however, that the Government of the People's Party, at a very recent date and with all boldness, has opposed not only the declassification of documents from the Civil War, but also the reform of the law itself. Just a year ago, the People's Party rejected a similar initiative in the Senate, opposing the recent adoption of the Transparency Act, a law on minimum transparency, a law on minimum transparency, a law with countless matters excluded from public access, a law on transparency that must be amended to allow effective access to information and to give the Transparency Council a true status of independence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group welcomes this happy initiative by the Basque Group. We share the opportunity of debate and the spirit that encourages this law. [[The lady]] Not in vain, the agreement for a reformist and progress government that supported the investiture debate of our candidate envisaged this explicit commitment. They will easily verify the coincidence of our commitment with the initiative of the proposing group; in particular, with the need to reside exclusively in the Government the power to classify documents and with the inescapable desirability of setting appropriate time limits for the maintenance of secrecy. However, the will of the Socialist Group goes further. We want a new law on official secrets; a new general law whose initiative - perhaps agreed by the proposing group - should reside in the Government; a law on secrets of general scope that is not limited to the object of the current law, but covers also cases provided for in other laws; a law that precisely defines classified matters. We postulate a regulation of official secrets that will continue to allow parliamentary access in the terms provided for in parliamentary regulations - the Rules of this House - and a law that of course also provides for sanctions when it is breached. We do not frustrate the importance for the security and defence of the State of the requirement of an updated, rigorous and guaranteed law of official secrets, but at the same time we also have no doubt that the contemporary State admits a modern regulation - as the comparative law illustrates - perfectly compatible with the highest levels of transparency and public access to official documentation originally classified. How difficult it is to imagine that documents classified almost 80 years ago can today affect the security and defence of the State. Just as it is difficult to imagine that, in the absence of deadlines, there are declassification protocols on an ex officio basis. On the contrary, it is easier to imagine that, in the absence of precise rules, public spheres are led by an administrative inertia that prefers opacity to openness and confuses discretion with arbitrariness. How many lessons we should have learned from that story of heroes and villains that is and remains the Snowden case. Ladies and gentlemen, contemporary democracies and the solidity of the architecture of the rule of law can afford to regulate the secrets that the archana imperii resides in the strict dimension that belongs to them in an advanced democratic society. But, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Basque Group, these good intentions are not going to materialise in what is left of the legislature. It's obvious. This bill will be taken into consideration today, it is clear, but it will decline exactly within a week. And it will be so despite the very high relevance that some parliamentary formations in this House seem to give to classified information. At least that is what his desire to govern our defense, our security and our intelligence services suggests. Like this, so many other initiatives presented and approved in this House will not prosper. Citizens will continue to be frustrated by their desire for change. There are Members in this House who will have to be accountable to the citizens for preventing this political change, for allowing the continuity of a president and a government in office that continues to embarrass the Spaniards and for preventing the start of a process of constitutional reform and a programme of democratic regeneration that regains the dignity of our institutions. There are Members in this House who will have to be accountable to the citizens for also allowing us to return to elections without reform of the electoral law, in which many Spaniards who reside abroad will continue to have serious difficulties in voting; in which many political parties will continue to present candidates for the Presidency of the Government without primaries; in which voters will not be able to express their preference for candidates for deputies, and in which Mr Rajoy - if he is a candidate - will continue to flee the electoral debates and send substitutes. There are Members in this House who will have to be held accountable to the citizens for aborting the start of an effective anti-corruption government program, because there will be no more police, judicial or legal means to tackle this insurmountable scourge, because the parliamentary dissolution of the Chambers will prevent the Supreme Court from requiring Senator Rita Barberá's petition for many months, thanks to the shelter provided to it by the People's Party in the Senate's Permanent Deputies. But, yes, perhaps during this time we see Mr Rajoy testifying for the Gürtel case, as demanded by his former majority endorsement Mr Ricardo Costa. I'm done, Madam President. There are Members in this House who are going to have to explain a lot to the citizens. It is becoming increasingly evident that the political and personal project of some eras and is to assault the heavens. It is easy to sense that assault on the heavens is as herculean as it is ethereal. Dreaming of earthly paradise needs its time and it seems that those who aspire to this assault have plenty of time. Unfortunately, the Spaniards don't have enough time. We Socialists have never lacked the capacity for illusion and passion to imagine a better future, but we are not here just to dream about it, we are here to build it, to transform reality and make it more just, not from chatter and television sets, but from the Official State Bulletin, which is from where the needs and aspirations of citizens are really met. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Rallo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Barreda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Saleroso, Mr Esteban, we will have to say in view of your references to our spokesman. I must announce that we will not support your proposal. We are not opposed to a possible reform of the Official Secrets Act, but it does not seem that the way to deal with this debate is patching up, is much more patching up than reforming, which is what has brought us to debate today at the last moment of the legislature. We share that the basic rule in relation to the ordinary activity of a democratic State is advertising, which is guaranteed in article 9 of the Constitution and is key to establishing a culture of transparency. Today, following the impetus of the Government of the People's Party, Spain has the Law 19/2013 on Transparency, Access to Public Information and Good Governance, which advances and deepens the obligations of active advertising by public administrations. Therefore, this is the principle and what we are discussing today is the exception, the subjects that may be removed from the general principle of publicity under articles 8.1, 104.1 and 105(b) of the Constitution, i.e. those that affect the security and defence of the State. In any case, Mr Esteban, you will have seen that you have not been very successful in the approach of the debate, I want to say that most of the speakers have used the debate for other things. Some had little to say about the substance of the matter or little to repair and had devoted themselves to the pre-campaign. We will have to be accountable to the citizens, it is true, as the spokesman for the Socialist Group said, some group - perhaps its own - more than others, by the way, but the truth is that we had to discuss this issue today. From Citizens, instead of discussing official secrets, we have been asked to respect democracy. It calls for respect for democracy the same group that recently intended to place at the head of the Government of Spain perhaps some relative of Mr Rivera, instead of the one who had won the elections, who was Mr Rajoy; or it asked for respect from the institutions those who in the last few days have known how they handle the funds of their municipal groups for other uses or how they ask for duplicate bills in their electoral campaigns: every example talking about respect for democracy and respect for the institutions. [[Applauds]] Of course, others have come here to talk about official secrets; perhaps transparency could speak to us by taking an example of the ayatollah theocracy, perhaps publicity could speak to us by taking an example of that Venezuelan administration in the light of candles, but the truth is that today they would have had to start by explaining to us the shame that made us pass to all the Spaniards walking to Otegi through the European Parliament in the last few hours. [[Applauds]] In any case, I am going to talk about the substance of the debate, the substance of the matter, above all with respect for the proposer, and I will certainly remember that the exception to the principle of transparency is what Mr Esteban brought today. The Transparency Act specifically provides for this exception, including the Public Sector Information Reuse Act and the Common Administrative Procedure Act 39/2015, which will enter into force shortly on 2 October. Our position on this subject is clear. We do not think it appropriate to address a partial reform or a patchwork of the Official Secrets Act. It is a regulated matter, with sufficient importance and transcendence to stop patching. The logical thing is to approach the law as a whole, to which we are prepared, with its corresponding regulatory development; a reform in line with international treaties regulating the exchange and protection of classified information and which is consistent with the different sectoral regulations involved; a reform, therefore, Mr Esteban, without gates and without back doors intended to distort the scope and application of the law. In this, in gateways and back doors, you will recognize that your proposal abounds and much. You have wanted to innovate and simplify. This is not a matter to which your group has devoted much attention in recent legislatures, but now it seems that they have wanted to go beyond any previous proposal and, above all, to move away from the line of previous parliamentary agreements, as we will see. Recently, in March, Podemos put forward an initiative that referred to a period of between twenty-five and thirty years for the declassification of historical documents; thirty years that could be extended was La Izquierda Plural's proposal in the last legislature and thirty years that could be extended to fifty years that of the Entesa Group in the Senate. Others, such as Convergence and Union, did not set a deadline, by the way. I do not know what they said before, but the truth is that they did not set a deadline in the proposal they made in 2013. Today the PNV proposes twenty-five years and automatic declassification with few exceptions. We believe that, far from maintaining the coherence of the system, its proposal could disrupt the regime of constitutional matters removed from the principles of publicity. As I say, you propose automatic declassification, but there are subjects to which access would not be possible, despite the fact that your qualification has been cancelled. This is provided for by the rules I have said before, including the Transparency Act, when other values come into play. It happens here and it happens in other countries. There's been talk of the United States. For in the United States there are also notable exceptions to the general rule that we all know. There are issues, Mr Esteban, which cannot have an expiry date, which should only be declassified when the classification body considers it appropriate. Consider the location of munitions or arsenals, the operation of weapons or equipment, on ships or aircraft with long periods of service, for example. That is, automatic declassification sounds good, is good to simplify, but it turns out that reality is more complex, has more nuances and therefore we see more opportune, rather than automatic expiry, to establish the mandatory review after a deadline, that is, to analyse in each case the implications for national security and defence and then decide on the requalification or declassification of documentation. It is more complex, even prolific, Mr Esteban, but it is in keeping with the most immediate background in this House, which may have been ignored. This was agreed in the Commission in 2014 on a proposal from the Plural Left, who had sex with the Socialist Group and the People's Group, to make an inventory, analysis and selection of documents classified prior to 1968, which could be declassified by the Council of Ministers, all before public access. That was the agreement in 2014 and we believe that doing so remains more logical, as logical as it was two years ago, and would avoid other inconsistencies in your proposal, for example, automatically declassifying secret or reserved documents and not doing so with confidential or limited dissemination documents, which also exist for example in defence or industry, even if the PNV has preferred to avoid this debate. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo utters words that are not perceived]] You didn't quote him, I heard him, you didn't quote him. You, with your proposal, would do what would be to declassify documents with the highest degree of protection automatically, while you would keep out of advertising documents with lower protection. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo: Lee, read]] I've heard everything, Mr. Esteban. In any case, that said, simple proposals do not allow for complex realities and regulations to be addressed. That is why we prefer a reform of the law as a whole and not a patching of the law. We also have a major discrepancy in another back door of your proposal, an element that allows draining, subtracting classified subjects under the Official Secrets Act. I am referring to the automatic declassification of the classified subjects to which Congress or the Senate acceded in non-secret session. It would be the Chambers themselves who, through the Rules of Procedure, would have the possibility of violating that protection offered by the classification of the matter. It is therefore a barely veiled form, let us make it clear, of declassification that would open the possibility of disclosure to the public without other considerations. We believe that, in any case, access to any classified information by Congress or the Senate should always be in secret session. This is the case with sensitive information for national security and defence. The wrong thing, the shocking thing would be that institutions other than the decision to classify a subject could propitiate its declassification without other considerations. We do not agree that the call for an open session is sufficient to declassify a subject, without assessing risks, international obligations, confidentiality needs or so many aspects that are taken into account before classification. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, the easy way, the thick stroke, the brush to the norm without contemplating the whole of the regulation has undesirable effects. Of this same defect also suffers - and I finish - the deletion they propose from Article 10.3. This section provides that the classified materials bear an annotation, which contains both this circumstance and the qualification of secrets reserved according to the agreed degree of protection, but what the PNV proposes is simply the deletion. They haven't argued, they haven't talked about it. We understand that keeping it in no way harms and that it avoids disclosure by pure and simple ignorance. It is a common practice in most European countries, also in the armies of the Atlantic Alliance and, of course, it is always possible to add the declassification note once it has been produced. It is more complex, I insist, but it is also more in line with the complex reality we are dealing with. For all these reasons, without opposing the reform of the whole law, we will oppose the consideration of the patch proposal put forward today by the PNV. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Barreda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u47	We move on to the third item on the agenda, on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the repeal of the 2010 and 2012 labour reforms that affect and modify the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Bescansa has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u48	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The imminent dissolution of the Courts may turn this plenary into a lintel of those historical moments in which everything solid fades into the air; soon we will know. The absence of a government of change and progress has ephemeralized the processing of law 25, of citizen rescue, has left in the drawer the halting of the calendar of non-application of the Lomce and, ultimately, has spent all the work we have done since January 13th. I do not think I am wrong if I say that in the last four months all the people we are here have spent a lot of time analysing the political situation in our country and proposing, as far as possible, possible solutions from our place. I am not going to start this speech with a debate about who was to blame for us being like this now. I believe that people have more than enough elements of judgment to draw their own conclusions, but for a few weeks now, every time I think about the political situation in my country, I have been assaulted by a story, a masterpiece of cinema that, in my opinion, describes very well what has happened in recent months. And as everything we're doing today within a week will disappear, let me tell you this story this spring afternoon. In this story, a group of bourgeois is invited to a dinner at a mansion after attending the opera. After dinner, servants and cooks feel very uncomfortable and have a lot of desire to leave the mansion and run away. However, the guests, suddenly, are not able to leave the room, although apparently there is nothing to hold them there, and, as the days go by, the food begins to scarce, the hosts and the guests begin to sicken, the garbage accumulates, they have nowhere to sleep. From that moment on - which may look like 11:59 p.m. on May 2 - the label and the good manners of guests and hosts jump through the air and start acting like wild beasts. Finally, after many weeks, the guests realize that to leave the mansion they only have to do one thing: open the door. [[Rumors]] Many of you will already have realized that I am talking about that masterpiece by Luis Buñuel entitled The Exterminator Angel. Socialist comrades and comrades who militate in the defense of the rights of the workers of our country, to get out of the House of Citizens you only have to do one thing: open the door. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] To get out of the citizens' house you only have to open the door, and on the other side we will be waiting for you to form the government of progress and change that our country needs. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived.-Applause]] On the other hand, we will be waiting for you to form the government of change and progress that our country needs, a government that guarantees that people have a decent job, the right of people to pay overtime, a government that guarantees that working conditions can be collectively negotiated, a government that guarantees fair compensation when you are fired, a government that guarantees you that you have an indefinite contract when your work is indefinite and that you do not have to be autonomous if your work is not autonomous, in short, a government that guarantees people's right to have a decent job and not be afraid to be without it. Each of us has his or her reasons for being here. People with their vote put us into institutions, into Congress, and they have told us many times what we have to do. Personally I have made mine one of those things that throughout the campaign since we started We can't stop people on the street saying: Derog labor reform. When you arrive, repeal the labor reform. [[Applauds]] Repeal the reform of the PP and repeal the reform of the PSOE. Derogation from the labor reforms that have left us without rights. [[Applauds]] Interestingly, the authors of the labour reforms, that of the PP and that of the PSOE, insisted that legally shielding the right to fire - eye, that I say the right to fire, even if it seems in its sound to something else - was the best tool to create employment. Never has such a crude fallacy dressed as a paradox turned out to be so cruel and so false. The working conditions in Spain are very harsh, among the hardest of the countries in our environment, and since the implementation of the labour reforms, that of the PSOE and that of the PP, have only made it worse. Between 2008 and 2013, 1,300,000 indefinite jobs and 1,400,000 temporary jobs were destroyed, but when the number of jobs increased by half a million in 2015, Social Security offered the worst outcome of its history or one of the worst. How can that happen? This is because recruitment in Spain is precarious and temporary, because there are more people working does not mean that there is more income in Social Security. 92% of the contracts signed in 2015 were temporary. In Spain it is hired for a short time, a lot of work and a bad bill. Between 2010 and 2014, real wages in Spain fell by 4%. 34% of workers receive a wage equivalent to the minimum inter-professional wage and 50% earn less than EUR 900. Extra hours are worked in all sectors, but they are not paid. The reports of the Workers' Committees, yes, of the Workers' Committees, say that 56% of the overtime in this country is not paid. Labour reforms, those of the PP and those of the PSOE, de facto liberalized the dismissal, reduced the days of compensation and broadened the cases in order to carry it out. They reduced the ability of people to collectively negotiate the conditions of their work, petrified the temporality and guaranteed everyone who wants to hire that they can do it and undo it whenever and under the conditions they want. Labour reforms in Spain have been and continue to be the cause of many very serious personal and family tragedies. In short, the labor reforms in Spain, which you promoted and which you promoted have been a disgrace to the people. [[Notes the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] We can be born to change this state of affairs, for that reason we came here, to recover our rights, to end labor fraud, also tax fraud, also with money launderers, so that never again are we approved in Spain rules that so cruelly and violently curtail the rights of the people who work and for all that, socialist comrades and comrades, you will find us as soon as you make that decision, that of opening the door. On the other hand, we will be waiting for you to set up a government of progress and change. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs Bescansa. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u50	Mrs Bescansa has today raised her initiative, which is very much addressed to the Socialist Group, with a sense that we were witnessing a struggle for the hegemony of the left-wing camp, legitimate in partisan terms, but which perhaps does not allow us to have an in-depth discussion on the issue they raise. Moreover, if they reduce their position on the labour market situation to a slogan - abrogating labour reform - they are not telling us anything, because if this legislature had gone through and the House were to pay attention to them and let us derogate from the labour reforms approved from 2010 until 2016, beyond the legal problems that might exist, we would conclude, in your opinion, that the existing regulatory framework before 2010 was a paradise. You, Mrs. Bescansa, know that's not true, right? The 2010 framework did not prevent thousands of businesses from closing down and millions of people from losing their jobs. And if you say that what was before neither, we will never know if the model of labor relations that you defend is the model of 1980, perhaps so; nor do I believe. Nor do I think that what was before 1980, of the last century, is his model. The fundamental question, which we cannot solve much less in this afternoon's debate - it is not a debate exclusively of the Spanish State, although in the Spanish State it has its own characteristics - is how we make compatible the tuitive role of labour law, fundamental and essential to ensuring the safety of workers, with the ability of our companies to compete in the global economy. It is the great debate that is currently taking place in all the countries in our environment. Our intuition, without knowing what is the alternative that Podemos poses to us, as they tell us, is that it is difficult for countries in Europe to succeed in combining high social protection and a capacity to be integrated into the global economies successfully respond to the Podemos model. We have that conviction. We may be wrong, and the day we get to know Podemos' alternative in terms of employment, we may be able to discuss it further. We know that we have a structural unemployment problem. How can the Spanish state have 18% unemployment in full economic growth? We have an economy that, when it grows, is able to create jobs, but when it goes into recession it destroys it massively, and we have had at least until 2010 a system of labour relations that did not give companies alternatives to dismissal and many companies, due to the costs of dismissal, especially small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises, were forced to close. It is true - perhaps here we could have a point of coincidence with you - that if in 2010, 2014 and 2015 a policy of improving the competitive position of the Spanish economy has made sense through wage adjustments, which was the centre of labour reforms and which deserved criticism for unfairness, today we also know that economic recovery cannot be supported by a model based on competition through wages. Democracy and Llibertat strongly defends the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage as an element to correct this situation, but at the same time we are convinced that we need a framework of flexible labour relations. You quoted the Workers' Commissions. In the labour reforms of the 1990s, Labour Commissions assumed that the cost of dismissal was a factor that prevented recruitment indefinitely. Do you or do you not share this idea? Or do they share the idea that making redundancy more expensive facilitates indefinite hiring? I do not think that for the small entrepreneurs to whom you sometimes refer or for micro-entrepreneurs that is the answer. The proposal we have put forward to you from Democrácia i Llibertat is to reach a broad agreement on this matter with the social partners, to reach a new social pact that will enable us to achieve these two main objectives: a system of labour relations that guarantees security in the 21st century, not with the ideas of the 20th century, and that makes it possible for the economic fabric to compete in the global economy. I hope in the coming times we can discuss fewer slogans and more laws and concrete policies. Today we cannot support them in this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Faba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Undoubtedly, data on unemployment and job insecurity in Spain are alarming, as they have been for decades with governments of both signs. Let us remember: 18% average unemployment with socialist governments and with popular governments. This is the problem that mainly concerns all Spaniards. The promotion of employment and better regulation of the labour relations framework must therefore be and must be a priority for citizens. The initiative that this afternoon we discussed and that brings us the Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea proposes not only to repeal the 2012 labor reform, the work of the People's Party, but also the previous reform of 2010 due to the Socialist Party. Of course, in Citizens we do not need their lordships from Podemos and confluences to explain to us that both models of work, that of the People's Party and that of the Socialist Party, have failed, that they have been failing for decades and that they both translate into an identical figure of unemployment, 18%, and of precariousness as well. In Citizens we know it perfectly well - there is no need for them to come to remember it - and that is why we do not settle with failure, but we propose a change in the framework of the labour market, one that allows to reduce unemployment with a more dynamic economy, one that at the same time offers equal protection for all workers and the possibility of preserving their rights throughout their professional career, even if they change jobs, with measures such as the reduction of the number of contracts and the fight against dual employment, measures such as the Austrian fund or backpack that allows to accumulate rights in a personal account of the worker, measures to promote labour stability such as the bonus-malus system that rewards or penalizes companies according to their abuse of the temporality and rotation of workers, and a very particular emphasis on efficient and well-funded active employment policies, all of which attests to the centrality that employment has for us and measures, by the way, that Citizens have managed to recover themselves in the agreement of reforms signed with the Socialist Party and that they will not be able to put into practice immediatly and impersonally intransgicism. Faced with these proposals and this constructive spirit that I believe my group has shown at all times, what we are here today is a propaganda initiative that merely seeks to repeal the last two labour reforms without proposing any alternative model, or a single realistic idea on how to improve our disastrous labour market. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it should also be pointed out that the repeal of the above-mentioned existing rules would not have the effect of reviving the previous regulation, and that is essentially so because the consolidated text of the current Workers' Statute is no longer the one that those rules amended, but now governs the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute Act adopted in October 2015. In short, what is presented to us today is an initiative of dubious technical foundation, which does not solve a single problem of which we have all the Spaniards and which also highlights a total lack of ideas and capacity to face the challenges that are presented today in our labour market. The proposed derogation would not in any way achieve the growth of employment levels in Spain. Nor can we see how the ladies and gentlemen of the Group think that their abrogation will improve the situation of the millions of precarious jobs, given that the percentage of garbage contracts in Spain has been stabilized for decades around a third; I repeat, the same failed model that PSOE and PP have shared before and after 2010 and 2012. Therefore, and since in Citizens we believe that our political action should serve the real needs of the Spaniards and not the mere ideological or propagandistic posture, we do not contemplate the mere repeal or return to any previous system. Who knows, perhaps your Lordships of Podemos feel nostalgia for the Francoist Out of Labor. [[Protests.-Applause.]] We are looking at defining a new framework for labour relations; a new framework which has as its fundamental objectives the fight against precariousness and unemployment - especially long-term unemployment - and the impetus of active employment policies. To this end, we propose to promote a negotiation process between the main social partners, culminating within one year with the adoption of a new Workers' Statute, a new statute that regains its original nature: a charter of guarantees of labour rights. In this respect, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has formulated its amendment, an amendment which reflects the substance of the reform agreement signed at the time with the Socialist Party and which we hope will be endorsed by the Podemos Parliamentary Group and by the other groups in the House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Faba. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Rodríguez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Bescansa, neither the First of May this year, nor tomorrow, 28 April, which is the day we claim health and safety at work, will be a government that repeals any labour reform, neither of 2010 nor of 2012, which is what we all want to repeal. There will be no such government because, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, you say you are from the left, but I begin to doubt that you are, because my grandfather and many people of the left really do not understand that a party of the left will allow the People's Party to rule. [[Applauds]] You have lost a historic opportunity for our country to have a government of change and progress; a government that put the welfare and happiness of citizens before the enrichment of a few; a government that radically changed the policies of suffering - because they are policies of suffering - that these four years the People's Party has imposed on workers and citizens in general; a government that pursues work with rights and not precariousness; a government that supports collective bargaining and wage increases, not wage devaluation and authoritarianism in the company; a government that ultimately realizes the clauses of the social and democratic state of law that is still our country, and does not trivialize unscrupulously, as the People's Party has done, the social rights that our Constitution still recognizes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists do want - I say it loud and clear: yes - to repeal the labour standards which have meant a cut in workers' rights. [[The lady]] It was the Socialists, Mrs Bescansa, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, who first proposed to the citizen to recover a basic agreement between workers and employers to draw up a workers' statute - that was our first proposal - that it should be a charter not of lost rights but of the rights won by the workers of our country. [[Applauds]] Should we repeal it? Yeah, the rules that have cut rights, all right. But I want to tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Socialist Party and the People's Party have never been the same in our employment policies or in many other things and our labour reforms have never been the same. The Socialists do not eliminate the administrative authorization in collective redundancies, which has made employers today able to fire at their will. Socialists didn't do it, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialists do not eliminate the compensation for dismissal from processing wages, which has reduced and facilitated the dismissal of thousands of workers from our country, up to 5 million workers from our country. Socialists didn't do it, ladies and gentlemen. Socialists do not eliminate the ultraactivity of collective agreements, as the People's Party has done with the support of Democrácia i Llibertat, which has led to the legal limbo of more than 3 million workers, which has plunged into legal insecurity, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, thousands of entrepreneurs in our country and which has led to the forced and unjust retirement of some magistrate of the Social Chamber of the Supreme Court. No; we did not do so by the socialists, nor did we write down the absolute and unbridled priority of the collective agreement in the company, which is being used today to lower the wages of the workers, including those of the housekeepers, who were in this House the other day. We didn't do it by the socialists, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Nor do the Socialists invent - the People's Party does - a false indefinite contract, which is indeed a one-year temporary contract, where dismissal is free and without any compensation, as you have just told us, and to denounce the People's Party, the International Labour Organisation and the European Committee on Social Rights. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us repeal, yes, when we have government, and I hope that from the left, the rules that are harmful to workers' rights, but we will not accept that you say that we are all the same and that all labour reforms are the same, because they are not, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos-En Comú Pode-En Marea. They're not. [[Applauds]] And, yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we must repeal its labour reform for many very powerful reasons. The first is because it was imposed on the workers and entrepreneurs of our country. It is the first time in the history of our democracy that a government has legislated against a social dialogue agreement. We must repeal its labour reform, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, for the millions of workers who today suffer from precarious contracts that last, when more, fifty-three days and, at least, three days. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have not created as much employment as you say. The declines in unemployment are due, rather, to disappointment, to job losses, and the contracts signed, up to 17 million precarious contracts last year, are due to the distribution of the little work that exists. They have multiplied as if they were bread and fish a contract...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u55	Mrs. Rodriguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u56	I'm finishing up, Your Honor. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u58	They have multiplied, as if they were bread and fish, an eight-hour contract by two four-hour contracts and four two-hour contracts. Its reform must be repealed by the more than 2.5 million poor workers in our country. Its reform must be repealed by the thousands of young workers who are out of their country today. Its reform must be repealed for the thousands of older than 50 years who have no hope of returning to work. Its reform must be repealed by the thousands of women who earn 24 per cent less than their male counterparts. But, above all, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we must repeal its reform because they have turned decent and rights-based work into little less than a privilege, a utopia or a dream.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u59	Mrs. Rodriguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u60	Your Honor, I'm done. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, because working is a right and not a utopia, we must repeal, yes, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, the labour reform of the People's Party. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. Mr Quevedo, first of all, on the question of fixing positions for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. The first thing we have to say from New Canarias is that if there is one issue on which it is worth bringing a non-legislative proposal to this House, it is precisely this, the need to recover labour rights, to recover decent employment, etc. We absolutely agree, because I come from a land, which is the Canary Islands, which is at an unemployment rate of 27% and with absolutely unacceptable poverty indicators. That is why we have fought hard against the backsliding of labour rights that constituted the set of decisions of the previous legislature. Many people in this House fought with all the energy that they were able, but with little success, to prevent a setback in the unprecedented labour rights in the recent Spanish democratic history. Now, once we have listened to Mrs Bescansa and read the non-law proposal carefully, the first question is: And why do you bring this non-law proposal? What's the point? If the intention is really to try to generate a consensus here so that - although it will go to file 13 all that is decided in this melancholy session that we are holding today - it remains there as a value to be defended by all in the future, then we should have made a greater effort in the drafting of the GNP. It is a non-legislative proposal that suffers from very important technical deficiencies, as has already been pointed out. If what is really intended is to repeal the Workers' Statute and go to a new one, then it was necessary to have done so in another way. If what is intended is to put the finger in the eye of the whole House, then no attempt is being made to reach an agreement; no attempt is being made to do otherwise. [[Applauds]] For that reason, what we are asking ourselves is: Isn't it trying to do an electoral pre-campaign essay on a matter of this gravity? If so, I have to tell you that we find that absolutely inconvenient. We don't think so. This seems wrong to the new Canary Islands because the issue is so important and so important that if it really is intended to change things, at least it is necessary to write it precisely. As I would like to think that we are not in a pre-campaign act, but that we are really trying to leave a non-legislative proposal to guide the left-wing government out of the next elections, if that is what is being done, then the amendments that have been made by the various groups must be read carefully. In particular, I have here that of the Socialist Group, which I believe is an absolutely consumable amendment because it has enough generic and enough concrete to allow us all to work. If what it is about is to take advantage of this last and melancholy session to start the electoral campaign, then, really, I think you should have done it with another less serious matter than the one you are really trying to address. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u63	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. Mrs. Beitialarrangoidia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u64	Thank you. Sweep on, good afternoon. The different labour reforms implemented in recent years by PP and PSOE have meant further progress in the same direction, now under the pretext of the crisis. That of the PSOE allowed CEOE, UGT and Workers' Commissions to decide in Madrid all the agreements, leaving the territorial ones without effect; clear commitment for the stateization and loss of decision-making power of the territories. The PP's, the most aggressive, has led to a total imbalance in labour relations, prioritizing the company agreement and not collective agreements. This has provided greater flexibility for the employer, who has more instruments to achieve greater benefits at the cost of reducing wage costs and, therefore, at the cost of greater precariousness and poverty. In addition to weakening the value of collective bargaining, they have not created employment and have brought about an increase in temporary or part-time contracts, so widespread in the case of young people and women, who are most suffering the consequences of the harmful policies being implemented. And it is that through labour reforms the benefit of economic growth is accumulating in a few hands, while poverty is spreading among more and more people, also among those who have jobs. These are the consequences of policies of austerity, labour reforms and bank rescue, which leave the working class without protection and without future because it is not really committed to productive investment, which has been reduced to a minimum, nor is it committed to a real industrial policy, and resources for research and development are limited. Neither is it committed to the productive fabric that guarantees the wealth of the future, nor is the resources allocated to the most needy people. Investment in active policies has fallen by 30% and since the start of the crisis the unemployment coverage rate has fallen to its lowest level; the percentage of unemployed who do not receive any subsidies has doubled, reaching 45%. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, they will not be the same, but the reforms are complementary, and we and we support the need to repeal all of them - imposed labour reforms - and to carry out policies that are genuinely committed to the creation of quality jobs, with indefinite contracts, fixed hours, wages established by collective agreements, full-time jobs and that partial ones are used only at the worker's request and not by obligation, in addition to the division of labour, the reduction of retirement age, the elimination of recruitment subsidies, which only favour employers, and the elimination of overtime. All these measures and a commitment determined to strengthen the productive fabric are the only ways to reverse the current situation which, because of labour reforms, I insist, has meant unemployment, precariousness and poverty. And for this - I conclude with this -, of course, from Euskal Herria we demand respect for the territorial agreements agreed with the majority unions and the unequivocal bet on a Basque framework of labour relations to implement our own policies according to our own capacities and not according to the limits that the State imposes on us at every moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u65	Thank you, honourable Member. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Gentlemen of Podemos, I have to warn you that the PNL you are presenting seems to us to be seeking above all a headline, a propagandistic effect as before the next election campaign, and that, I'm sorry, but it's not our talent. We, as the Basque Group, cannot participate in that game. Our activity along this one, but from the eleven legislatures that have passed since the Constitution, has been based on honest work, a work that has always had the same tone: the analysis and evaluation of legislative proposals, their criticism and, if necessary, the suggestion of alternatives. That is why we would like to point out that, in carrying out this work, the Basque Group voted against all those laws whose repeal we are now asking for. I therefore find it opportune to do some sort of introspection as to the reasons why our representative expressed his opposition to those legislative initiatives. I'm gonna tell him. What Mr. Olabarría said was almost premonitoring. He pointed out at that time in front of Royal Decree-Law 10/2010 and 35/2010 - more or less and very briefly - that it was going to increase the number of temporary contracts that would be chained by several workers for one post. That it believed contrary to the essential content of the contract to decausal the dismissal and the modification of conditions. Facilitating dismissal without objective causes and reducing it would result in a reduction in staffing. That it considered it a mistake to combat precariousness with contracts that encouraged it, such as employment promotion or training, that would cover up ordinary jobs. In addition, it stated that the possibility of discontinuing the conventions was an attack on the line of flotation of collective bargaining, and therefore on article 37 of the Constitution, as well as on the possibility of having a Basque framework of labour relations. And with respect to Royal Decree-Law 3/2012, he said more or less similar things. More than creating, it destroyed employment, since the prospect of creating employment could not be linked to the collection of low wages and unfavourable conditions, and it recalled that the employment contract was born under two circumstances: protecting the dignity of the worker and ensuring that remuneration would be a decent means of living, so the elimination of its signagmatic character meant its denaturization, especially when its interpretation was left to one of the parties. As can be seen, that analysis was almost premonitoring, and ours today and now is aimed at making the proposals that we believe are appropriate in order to modify those labour reforms, which we believe were defective. In that regard, we would like to warn against certain errors that we would support at the time, but already in a forthcoming legislature and once we have come up with new proposals. We want to warn of the misuse of the legislative technique, which is a substitute in many cases for the collective agreement, because we understand that labour relations are based on the collaboration between the legislator and the social partners. On the contrary, the intrusion of one into the field of the other, or the intrusion of the other into the field of the one - and worth the redundancy - is absolutely inconvenient. In that regard, we believe that there has been no loyal collaboration either between the legislator or between the social partners. We believe that it is necessary to correct many of the perverse effects - as we have described them - of labour reform, but above all to seek an empowerment of the labour contract and an empowerment of collective bargaining as such. We understand the need for a new status of workers and affirm that labour relations must be based above all on collective bargaining. We do not think it right to undermine the effectiveness of the conventions or to subject their outcome to the will of one of the parties. We believe it is inconvenient to restrict the ultra-activity of the agreements or to limit their effectiveness, and we also believe it is inconvenient to reduce the possibility of granting validity to the territorial frameworks, to the Basque framework of labour relations, and to the agents who can intervene there. Another perverse effect against which we are also going to position ourselves is that of the reduction of labour costs, understood as a devaluation of wages; that is, a devaluation of the value of the employment contract. As we have said, we believe that it is appropriate to empower the employment contract, to provide it with content, to provide it with legal certainty and, therefore, to causate the dismissal and to objectify its compensation. We believe that these objectives are possible, but that they cannot be converted into perverse grounds for devaluation of the contract. It is undeniable that there has been a greater number of contracts, as well as that they are of poorer quality, so it is important that this proliferation is not associated as a method of promoting employment. It seems proven that many of these contracts hide a method of precarious labour relations, rather than facilitating job creation, to enable companies that might start or have some kind of difficulty. And this leads us to a final reflection - something about which almost all the members of the House have expressed themselves at one time or another in their favour - that we need to enhance control activities.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u67	Mr. Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u68	I'll be right out. We are referring to the Labour Inspectorate, which all have agreed to qualify as the best control tool of any kind of abuse. The debate on social security has also been mixed and must be mixed, especially the lack of income associated with social security. And I don't want to stop mentioning one last point. In this activity, and above all in active employment policies, we have always stated and reiterate that other bodies, such as the autonomous communities, are not only an active part but an active part. We demand compliance with the Statute of Autonomy, articles 10 and 12, and therefore - and in accordance with 149 of the Constitution - we demand that they facilitate the transfer of competences not only in the area of active policies but also in the implementation of social security legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u69	Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. For the Republican Left Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u70	President, ladies and gentlemen, forgive me but I continue to be shocked after the proclamation of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. The truth is that listening to the PSOE talking about trade union, civil, labor rights, talking about socialism and the left, it's almost like listening to Jack the Ripper talking about anatomy. It's kind of funny. [[Protests]] Don't get nervous, I just started. We will, of course, support the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea initiative, as it cannot be otherwise, and we will do so in a somewhat special way. We came here to be the voice of hundreds, thousands, to be resonance box. Today, in the face of one of the biggest scams to the working class of this country, the people of this country, in the face of the labor reforms of the PP and the PSOE - which apparently take very badly on what TV sets but then take very well in the offices -, we want this atril and these microphones to be people's more than ever. I don't speak today, they speak today. These are their testimonies, and these are their questions. These are the people they betrayed. I hope you have some answers for them. Enric, fifty-three years, security assistant: I charge 700 euros working 168 hours a month and I pay a mortgage of 500. Enric, gentlemen of the PP and the PSOE, has a question for you: Every month I have to choose between paying for the light or eating, could you live with 200 euros a month? Daniel, fifty-six years old, gas station employee: Work, through an ETT, from 10 a.m. to 7 a.m., including alternate weekends, for 600 euros per month. Daniel, gentlemen of the PP and the PSOE, has a question for you: When did you decide that slavery in this country was legal again? [[Applauds]] Roger, 20 years old, student: Every day I see myself and my most fucked up friends, without illusion or winning despite effort, without reward or work and with sorry wages. We know that none of us can exercise what we are studying. Roger has a question for you too. What solution have they given and give to youth, why do they encourage us to emigrate? If so patriotic, why do they condemn us to perpetual precariousness? Alba, thirty-four years old, waitress: I work between fifty and sixty hours a week and only 20. I'm having a party, when I get two by agreement. I work all the holidays and I don't get paid as it's established and I don't get paid back. And - he says - if you complain, if you report it, you get fired. In Labor Inspection, leaving your data is supposed to go to the queue of unemployment. Alba has a question for you: If you care so much about legality to prevent a referendum, why do you systematically fail to comply with it in terms of work? Why is there no one to protect the worker from reprisals? Why is there so much defenselessness? Christian, twenty-five years, worker: I've been wandering around companies with temporary contracts for more than five years without the possibility of being fixed on any, even knowing that nowadays that doesn't guarantee anything. Christian, gentlemen of the PSOE and the PP, has a question for you: How can you say that your labor reforms have diminished temporality if the figures indicate otherwise? How do you have the little shame of saying so in the face of so much suffering? Josep, forty-five years old, trolleyman: I've been looking for a decent job for years, in which they don't ask me for an engineer's title and three different languages so I can carry in a warehouse a retractable cart for three euros an hour; I'm surviving thanks to black hats. Josep, gentlemen of PP and PSOE, has another question for you: I have no accounts in Switzerland and Panama. No one will give me a hug if they catch me defrauding, but I do have dignity. At what point did you decide that my dignity was worth less than yours? [[Applauds]] Victor, fifty-one years old, industrial engineer: I lost my job and only found something commercial 100 kilometers from my house - that's what I had -; I've been charging the same for six years with continuous delays. Victor, gentlemen of the PSOE and the PP, has a question for you: We are your people. Aren't you ashamed of yourself when you see our situation? Laugh, laugh. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the Spain we have; this is your country. The best people...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u71	Mr. Rufián, excuse me for a second.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u72	I'm done right away, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u73	Yeah, but I haven't seen anyone laugh. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u74	I'll be right there. This is your country: the best people, putting coffees, and the worst, opening opaque accounts; a strong state with the weak and weak with the strong. What you have heard, ladies and gentlemen, is what really breaks a country and not an urn. The worst of all is that this plenary is absolutely useless. You, those who for three months called us Catalans, useless, who described what was happening in Catalonia as chaos and drama, and it was the negotiation of an absolutely exceptional government, have failed. In a state where the PP wins elections, the left is the Spanish Socialist Workers Party - which is neither socialist nor worker - and the change is Citizens, which everyone knows perfectly well what they are - the Democratic Party, but actually the Spanish National Front - the problem is not us, the Catalans. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u75	Mr. Rufián, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u76	Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u77	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Echaniz.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we are not only going to debate the repeal of an essential instrument, which is useful for Spanish society; today we are discussing the past or the future, we are discussing futility or effectiveness, we are finally discussing sectarianism or open and dynamic society. Because all the developed countries, ladies and gentlemen, know perfectly well that the Spanish labour market has been a huge anomaly for many years. Unacceptable structural unemployment - the triple that in the European Union -, duality, job volatility, lack of flexibility and competitiveness have been endemic and permanent features of the poor historical functioning of our labour market, an obsolete market, designed for before globalisation and with legislation loaded with rigidity that has always pushed workers to adjust by firing them, rather than turning dismissal into an undesirable route and subject only to the last possible option. This is well known by the Socialist Party, which, in view of the need to change the reality because it went up from 9% to 24%, with its terrible effect on inequality, on poverty or on social welfare, never wanted to assume the political cost of the necessary reforms, advanced the elections and even left the country without general State budgets throughout 2012. That is why the People's Party had important social support, because the Spaniards remembered well the 5 million jobs created until 2004, because that made the People's Party government, the government of Mariano Rajoy, not a second in courageously reforming our labour standards to create jobs and to recover our economy. That is why all these balanced and responsible reforms of this legislature in recruitment, collective bargaining, active employment policies, passive policies, flexibility, youth employment, productivity or employability. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain has fulfilled and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, these results, which are surprising throughout the European Union when we have rowed with the same international scene as the rest of the countries, have made it possible to stop the bleeding of unemployment and turn it around: where there were 26% unemployment now there are six points less; where 3.5 million jobs have been destroyed, there are now one million more workers in our country; where 177,000 companies have been destroyed, 256,000 companies have been created today; where 571,000 self-employed businesses have now raised their blinds more than 100,000. [[Applauds]] If these reforms had not been made, Spain would have one million fewer jobs today; if the Socialist Party in Zapatero's time, in 2008, had made these reforms, the unemployed would not have fallen by 2 million at that time. No institute of economic studies questions this: we grow, we create jobs, above all indefinite, 4.7 million indefinite contracts since 2011, those of young people growing to 11%, 85% of the whole European Union, six new jobs for every pensioner in our country, and we generate sustainability and stability for our welfare state. That with our reforms, with our social and labour policies, which have been able to stimulate the offer of employment, many Spaniards have regained their project of life, their family tranquillity, their illusions and their dreams is a pride for all those who formed the People's Party, for all our voters who gave us their majority, their support and who asked us on 20 December to continue this task. [[Applauds]] It's been our obsession and we've left our skin on it. We have not forgotten a single day of them all, not a single day throughout the entire legislature, and we will not forget either in the future until we get back all the jobs that destroyed the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the left one by one. [[Applauds]] This has given full meaning to our political activity, to our public service to the Spaniards, because no one has left more jobs in Spain at the beginning than the People's Party. This is, and not another thing, a Government of progress, a Government that creates employment, a Government that creates opportunities, a Government that creates a better society in our country. Employment is a sign of identity of the People's Party and of no one else in this whole House. No one has committed to creating 2 million new jobs in the next four years, no one at all. Moreover, it is discouraging to read the electoral programmes of all the political forces in this House except the People's Party. Only the People's Party has committed to 20 million jobs by 2020, no one else. [[Laughter]] Only the People's Party has been the only guarantee they have had, that they have and that the Spaniards will have in creating jobs in the last thirty-eight years of our democracy. The People's Party is the only one capable of doing so, and the Spanish know it very well. That is why I was saying at first that today's debate is not just a debate on labour market instruments. It is a debate essentially of past or future, of futility or effectiveness, of destroying or building, between persevering on the road with what has shown the world to be useful or to return to the walks, returning to 3.5 million unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen, much remains to be done - but without losing track, because it has been very difficult to get there so far - maintaining the momentum of sensible reforms and effective reforms and maintaining political stability as well, which are precisely the two business cards that the People's Party has always offered to the Spaniards. I have a question for all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Today, with your vote, Spain will see if you are looking for a 2020 with 20 million Spaniards working or if you want to go back to 6 million unemployed. The People's Party, of course, is going to be in this once again, as always, with the Spanish. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u79	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. Mrs Bescansa, have you accepted any of the amendments that have been tabled to your proposal?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u80	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u81	The vote is therefore taken on its own terms. [[Consent]] Okay. Thank you, Mrs. Bescansa. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the Early Liberation of Political Press in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. [[File number 162/000031]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u82	We shall therefore turn to the next item: a non-law proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group on the prompt release of political prisoners in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Martínez-Maillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u83	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I wanted to welcome the representatives of Venezuelan society, of different Venezuelan political parties incorporated in the Bureau of Democratic Unity, civil associations and the father of Leopoldo López who also accompanies us here in the rostrum. Thank you for your presence. [[Prolonged applause from ladies and gentlemen, some of them standing by looking at the guest gallery]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative is in addition to the more than sixty initiatives promoted by the Group of the European People's Party over the past ten years in the same direction both in Congress and in the Senate, because the struggle for freedom and democracy is above any political symbol. Human rights have no frontiers and no understanding of ideology, and that is why a Spanish right-wing deputy today calls for freedom for Venezuela's political prisoners, whatever their ideology; whatever their ideology. [[Applauds]] Leopoldo López has been in Ramo Verde's military prison for more than eight hundred days, deprived of the greatest human right after life that is freedom; condemned, as he says, for unjust justice. And, like him, many other Venezuelan opposition leaders such as Antonio Ledezma, María Corina Machado, Daniel Ceballos and many others; young people, students, workers, teachers, housewives, activists who committed a slight crime that is manifesting themselves in defense of the freedom and fundamental rights of people on the streets of Venezuela; that was their crime. [[Applauds]] From here I would also like to express our deep admiration for those heroes and also for their families and many of those women, such as Mitzy Capriles, Lilian Tintori, Patricia Gutiérrez, brave and strong women who are fighting from outside for their husbands and for freedom and rights in Venezuela. [[Applauds]] People who are suffering in the first person the cruelty and repression of the Chávez and Maduro regime, not only because they are imprisoned through an unjust sentence but because of the lack of guarantees and impartiality of an unjust justice and because of the vile treatment and abuses they are receiving. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to listen to this shocking testimony: Today I went to visit Leopoldo in Ramo Verde's military prison, they took off my underwear again, by orders of Colonel Vitoria; they threatened to take off my visit if I did not. The colonel again threatened Leopoldo by telling him that if his family continued to denounce his inhuman treatment, they would take action against him. These are not my words, these are the words of Lilian Tintori who published it exactly two weeks ago on an international social network. The accusatory evidence that has been presented against Leopoldo is false and his trial has been a real farce, and I do not say so, says the prosecutor who has had to flee to the United States because he is under pressure from the regime during the trial. Ladies and gentlemen, after all this I have just told you, there is no doubt on the part of anyone that there is no freedom, no respect for democracy, no respect for human rights, but there are three major crises in Venezuela. A political crisis that causes opponents to be imprisoned or disabled, an economic crisis that turns into a humanitarian and also social crisis, mainly because the productive fabric has been destroyed and there are queues in supermarkets, light cuts and inflation that is expected for the coming year of 720 % and a security crisis that also makes the numbers frightening deaths, more than 28,000 killed a year, 98% of them unpunished, war figures that have caused Venezuela to be the second most insecure and dangerous country in the world. And this has also required the support of the international community, virtually all NGOs at the international level, as well as important institutions such as the European Parliament or the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights or the UN, has described the arrest of Leopoldo López and other political prisoners as arbitrary. Ladies and gentlemen, chavismo, like all populisms, uses the moments of crisis and distrust of the citizens, takes advantage of the system so that through democratic channels it can reach power and, from the power, destroy the pillars of the rule of law. [[Applauds]] That is why populism is reprehensible, that is why in Venezuela it has ended up with private property and expropriates land and industries, yes, yes, it expropriates land and industries - I say again - which has led precisely to one of the causes of the destitution that Venezuela suffers. [[Rumors]] In Venezuela, the media has been mouthed, a journalist has been pointed out, and the media has been closed as in Venezuela. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] In Venezuela, the judicial system and the prosecution are not independent. In the past 15 years, what a coincidence, not a single court has issued a ruling against the Government. The National Electoral Council of the regime has been copied, the Supreme Court of Venezuela has also annulled the Amnesty and Reconciliation Act, approved precisely by the National Assembly and, of course, an external enemy is needed in all populism and the enemy Spain has been invented. Spain is the enemy now and whenever Maduro attacks the Government of Spain, its president, Mariano Rajoy, before Aznar or Felipe González, he is attacking Spain, democrats, the rule of law and fundamental rights, he is attacking Spain and democracy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the unfortunate thing is that we have to defend this proposal in the middle of the 21st century. And we've been watching your murky attitudes. What's going on? That freedoms are only worth here and not worth on the other side of the Atlantic? What's going on? That fundamental rights are defended here only by demonstrators who manifest themselves in Spain and not by demonstrators from Venezuela? What's going on? Or do we have a double measuring rod? By the way, there are no political prisoners in Spain, there are no political prisoners in Spain. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] In Spain terrorists are not refugees and, of course, Otegi is not a man of peace. The people, men and women, who are in prison are for terrorism, for attacking and are precisely for kidnapping and the victims are basically that, victims of terrorism to which we owe dignity and justice and the recognition of all democrats. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. In this matter there are no half inks. Either you're in favour of freedom or you're against freedom. As democrats we are obliged to fight for it, to vote no to this initiative i.e. no to freedom, to abstain from this proposal would be to listen deafly to the cries that from Venezuela demand democracy, freedom and respect. [[The Lord]] It is that the abstention is not indifference, which would already be very serious, is that the abstention is complicity with Venezuela and with those who defend the Venezuelan regime. [[Applauds]] I'm done. The struggle for freedom and for the defence of democracy is a must for all of us, and I therefore thank the Socialist Group for its amendment and for having been able to reach an agreement, like the rest of the political groups, but not all of them, as we shall see later. That is why I would like to invite all of you to join us in this initiative, because I believe that it is truly the right thing to do, and because Spain certainly stands on the right side: in the defence of dignity, in the defence of democracy, in the defence of the separation of powers and in the defence of human rights, and to that none of us can give up because that is why all of us here are present, precisely because of that. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u84	Thank you, Mr. Martínez-Maillo. For the defence of the amendments put forward, the Joint Parliamentary Group will intervene in the first place. Mrs Oramas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a Canary and for the Canary Islands Venezuela is the eighth island. When there is famine in Venezuela we feel it as our own and when there is death in Venezuela we feel it as our own. The Canarian nationalists have always been deeply respectful of the democratic decisions of the people of Venezuela and the Canarian Parliament unanimously reached an important agreement. President Maduro is a democratic president, but also right now the Assembly of Venezuela. We must demand respect for the Government of Venezuela with regard to the Spanish institutions, but we must also respect the decisions of the Government of Venezuela and its people and we must demand that there be no political prisoners in that Venezuelan democracy. I know the Capriles family and there is a young girl arrested for a possible attack that never existed, which has never been able to appear before a judge, and that does not deserve Venezuela, nor does the terrible situation that is being experienced. I want to make an appeal today. I cannot share the words, the tone of Mr Martínez-Maillo's speech, but yes this compromise and this proposal. We must be sensible in a debate in which, as the UN does, we must demand the release of political prisoners. We cannot revive the enchantment of passions, we cannot go to a civil war that is being encouraged because that would be disastrous for a rich, noble people and so linked to our country and my autonomous community, the Canary Islands. I will support this compromise amendment because we must encourage dialogue, peace and democratic processes and not interfere with Venezuela's internal policies, but we must be very firm with the freedom of political prisoners, of course - Spain demands it, the Canary Islands demands it and the international community - and we must all be a little reassured. Let us not lose their respect and let them not lose ours. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this initiative, among other things, because it seems to us very timely to remember here today the suffering of all Venezuelan prisoners of conscience and because we believe that it is very necessary to denounce the injustice of their situation and the heinousness of their persecution. We're going to support her because we think what she says is true. It is simply the truth, because in Venezuela there is no freedom to make politics in a democratically homologable way and because it is evidence - even if some do not want to see it or act like the ostrich - that the Venezuelan Government does not respect freedom of expression and does not protect the right to life of those who think differently; it is more so, it pursues them. Faced with the perversion of those who support today a story that only interests those who support the use of terror combined with a policy of legitimizing violence, the example of Leopoldo López and the other Venezuelan opponents, his struggle and his dignity show us the falseness of this speech. An opportunistic, lying speech, very lying. I am referring to the speech of those who seek to convince Spanish society and international society that members of a terrorist gang who are tried and imprisoned for their crimes, some of whom are excruciating, are political prisoners; that the persecutors are the persecuted; that those who flee to pay for their crimes are refugees; or, even more indecent, that the executioners are the victims. The world upside down, ladies and gentlemen. We will also support this initiative because it seems to us necessary today to reaffirm the universal virtuality of those rights, such as freedom of expression, which we also believe are violated in Venezuela by his Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Last morning, the 29th, it's Leopoldo Lopez's birthday. He'll be forty-five years old. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the pressure we can exert from here, from this House, by adopting this non-law proposal will help him and the other conscientious opponents to be free soon. From Unión del Pueblo Navarro to all of them we congratulate them for their democratic commitment and from here we send our thanks for their strength and dignity and our recognition for keeping alive the flame of freedom, of genuine freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u88	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. Mrs. Enbeita.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that Venezuela has been mentioned in this House. This afternoon, apart from this non-law proposal, you have been talking about Venezuela for a while. We have heard many times here that human rights are not respected in Venezuela, that there are political prisoners and that Venezuela is a dictatorship. From the beginning of my speech I would like to stress that we do not share the text that is presented here today, because we doubt - and we have the right to doubt - that Leopold Lopez is a political prisoner. [[Strong protests.- Mr.Cantó García del Moral: What a surprise!]] Don't worry, I've only got two minutes and I'll be right there. [[Rumors]] I'll be right there, all right? On January 23, 2014 Leopoldo López called to take the streets and in those altercations there were forty-three victims. Some of them were here a couple of weeks ago. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u90	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u91	Most political groups did not want to receive them, even if only to listen to their version of what happened. They didn't even want to receive them. That is why we say that we doubt what is being said here today. Venezuela is an older country that does not need interventions from others to maintain its legal order. [[Rumors]] That is why we demand for Venezuela a peaceful future in which the Venezuelan people decide in which State, with what resources and with which Government they want to live. [[Rumors]] Now the Venezuelan elections seem so legitimate to you, but they didn't seem like it to you before.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u92	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u93	I'm done with this as a final point. There has also been talk here today about the closure of the media. I already know what it's like to go to work in the morning and have the Civil Guard in my newspaper. [[Rumors]] Euskaldunon Egunkaria will ring a bell and they will also recall that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg condemned the Spanish Government for not investigating the torture reported by the director of that newspaper. That is why it would be good if they looked a little more at their navel and let Venezuela walk in peace. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Enbeita. Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u95	Good night. From the United Left, Popular Unity, we have proposed a replacement amendment which we believe will not be taken into account. It was based primarily on three axes: human rights as the first guiding principle of Spanish foreign policy, respect for the legal system and sovereignty of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and trying to improve diplomatic relations and support Unasur's initiatives of dialogue and depolarization, which is currently working to overcome the complex Venezuelan situation, and which maintains South America as a zone of peace. Since it won't be taken into account, I've tried to explain it to you in a moment. Having said that, what attracts attention is, in the first place, the tone. When we wanted to urge the Government of Honduras for the murder of Berta Cáceres, I remember how the tone here softened so that it didn't sound too harsh; that on the one hand. [[Applauds]] Then what the spokesman of the People's Group on Human Rights has said wherever they are. I have not heard anything here about Brahim Saika, who is now dead after being tortured in a prison in Agadir, Morocco, after all the parliamentary groups, except the PP, signed an initiative to restore international legality in the Sahara. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] I have to tell you, however, that it seems to me very good that the UN is being invoked here and its indications followed; what would seem much better to me is that instead of invoking the UN only to talk about Venezuela, we would call on it to follow its advice on the repeal of the Mordace Law and the reforms of the Criminal Code. [[Applauds]] And not only that, but also many other things they have asked of us, such as the repeal of our still existing Amnesty Law of 1977, which leaves the crimes of Francoism unpunished. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Forgive the voice, but that's what's left after a busy day. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u98	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u99	Thank you very much for your enthusiasm. This morning, when a Commission ended, a Member approached me and said to me, "I'm going to kiss you." Thanks for trying. [[Several Members: Oh!]] There are also beautiful moments in Parliament; you do not make it easy but there are beautiful moments. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I repeat, thank you for trying. We have kept talking and the Member has said to me:... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u100	Wait a minute, Mr. Baldoví. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u101	... I'm so sorry. In this and other Committees we have adopted many initiatives, we have left the PP only over and over again. [[Rumors]] On the other hand, we see that some leaders of the People's Party today have an ear to ear smile. We're going to elections; they're going to have a new chance to retain power, the only thing that interests them, because when they lose it, when they lose it, they grow dwarfs like in Valencia. [[Protests.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] [[Protests.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u102	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u103	I am always very polite when speaking to a deputy of the PP; in my life I have interrupted a deputy of the PP, and you are always interrupting me. [[Applause. - Rumours. - Several Members speak words that are not perceived.]] I say this... [[Rumors.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] And you're a serious game? [[Several Members: Yes.-Rumors]] If you'd let me finish...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u104	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u105	I say this because this GNP is a monumental monument to hypocrisy. The PP is interested in political prisoners when they are from a given country, when they are from a given country. [[Applauds]] I'm saying it with this image. [[Shows a photograph of Mr. Rajoy with Mr. Obiang]] Look, the president of the government with a dictator. Don't you know he's tortured in Guinea? Don't you know that Guinea kills itself? You don't know, do you? Of course they do! [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and some of the Joint Parliamentary Group, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u106	Mr. Baldoví, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u107	I'm closing up. Have you had any initiative in international organizations with Guinea, Saudi Arabia, China, Russia, Turkey and the Kurds, Morocco, in the Sahara? [[Several Members: Yes]] I went to the Sahara as a deputy, with four more deputies. The police followed us day and night four days, four days, in territory occupied by Morocco. [[Rumors]] I'm done. Quiet. I ended up with another image. [[Shows a photograph of Mr. Aznar with Mr. Chávez]] Look, your Honor President with another dictator. They let him put on the jam... [[Applauds.-A honourable Member speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u108	Finish now, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u109	I've got two seconds left, but they're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u110	Finish it now. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u111	I'm done. Here the concern for prisoners is over soon. Especially when we know that there's business, arms business or business like Mr. Aznar's...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u112	Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u113	... to award 1 % of the desalination machines. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u114	Your time is up, Mr. Baldoví. For the Republican Left Group, Mrs Surra. [[Prolonged rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen of the PP, if you sought sincere and honest support for Venezuelan society you would accept our amendments, which speak of human rights, of respect for the legitimate Government of the Republic of Venezuela, of support for Unasur's initiatives to deepen dialogue and understanding in Venezuelan society, and would not forget solidarity with the victims of the Guarimbas. This Amnesty International book entitled: The Situation of Human Rights in the World, has nearly five hundred pages. [[Show the book]] It is curious that the People's Party is obsessed with only three of them and obviates the rest. It is particularly curious that he presents us with an initiative on the situation of human rights in Venezuela and that, instead, he does not present any initiative on the three pages of this book that document situations of human rights violations in Spain. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PP, your obsession does not respond to the concern of human rights, but responds to two other factors. First of all, the ideological factor. They are only concerned about the violation of human rights in countries with different ideological models of their neoliberal, while hugging dictators such as Theodoro Obiang of Equatorial Guinea - as the colleague pointed out - who by chance just won with 98% of the votes, something that does not happen even in the best democracies, or while selling arms to Saudi Arabia that are then used to kill Yemeni citizens. And second, the colonialist factor. You continue to treat Latin America as if we were still your colony. No more imperialist interference! Let Latin Americans solve our internal conflicts and don't come to our house and tell us how to govern ourselves. [[Applauds]] You, gentlemen of the PP, support a Venezuelan law that seeks to leave unpunished crimes such as - and I quote textually - the import or detention of explosive and incendiary devices, fires, instigation to delinquent, public intimidation and causing panic to the community. In addition, they claim that today we vote in favour of the release of prisoners who have committed such crimes, and that we vote in favour of a law that has been repealed by the Venezuelan Constitutional Court; a Constitutional Court that is respected here and not there. And you say, no, but there the Constitutional Court is made up of members of the government. Exactly the same thing that happens in Spain, where they placed someone with the popular party card as president of the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] Six elections ago, the Venezuelan right said, with the electronic vote, that Chávez had altered the result and were contradicted by people on his own side, because the machines that served for the counting had been manufactured by an American society of which they themselves were owners. That machine not only electronically accounts for the vote, but also gives a role in what you voted for; and that role goes to a ballot box that opens in case of litigation. Tens of ballot boxes, allegedly trafficked, were opened and the result was found to be accurate. Venezuela was congratulated by international agencies for the exemplary transparency of its electoral system. And if this was not enough, the last elections, which were favorable to the opposition, were not objected to by anyone. In short, what they questioned was not the method but the result. Gentlemen of the PP, if you believe that the Venezuelan Amnesty and Reconciliation Act is an example, pass a similar law here, but stop interfering in Latin America. In any case, stop pacifying other States and focus on your own. Open a negotiation with Euskal Herria that will end a law of amnesty and reconciliation for the definitive peace of this brother country. [[Applauds]] Finally, on behalf of the Republican Left and on behalf of the Catalan Republicans, I would like to remind the victims of the Guarimbas and recall the initial stanza of the anthem of the Bolivarian Republic: Glory to the brave people! Thank you. [[Applause.- Various Members: Good!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Surra. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mr Bustinduy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u117	Thank you very much, President. I am grateful for the opportunity to explain - or rather to explain again, because we have already discussed this and voted in the Committee on Foreign Affairs just days ago - what our position is on what is happening in Venezuela. However, given the speech of the spokesman for the People's Group, I would like to say that we do not accept lessons of democracy or respect for human rights from those who, against 90% of the will of this people, put us into illegal wars that have caused hundreds of thousands of deaths and, today, when the refugees of those wars are drowning on the shores of Europe, they do nothing to resolve it. [[Applauds]] Not a lesson from you. Rather, apologize to our people. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)]] Venezuela is going through a very difficult time. After a period of great social progress, the country is now undergoing a serious economic crisis, a great political and social polarization and tremendously worrying levels of violence. That is the context of the cases before us, in which a number of international bodies have denounced a lack of due process and which, beyond legal issues, have a clear political impact. The Venezuelan opposition legitimately won the last legislative elections, proof that there is a functioning democratic system, and is pushing for an amnesty law that has failed to unlock the institutional conflict between the parties and the powers of the State. There is no doubt that the solution to these problems - necessary - involves dialogue, recognition and reconciliation between the parties. Nor is there any doubt that those who have to decide the future of Venezuela are Venezuelans and Venezuelans, because the time for interference and coups d'état in Latin America has run out. [[Rumors]] [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)]] Some of those blows were supported by you. The Usasur, the Celac, Pope Francis, the Secretary of General of the United Nations have said that the only possible solution to the situation in Venezuela is the mediation and peaceful resolution of conflicts through the strengthening of the rule of law, and Spain could and should play a key role in helping and facilitating such mediation through our diplomacy. That would be the best way to help the Venezuelan people, but also what would be best for the interests of our State because Venezuela, like all sister countries in Latin America, is a strategic priority for our foreign policy. That is what we put forward in the amendment we have tabled, helping to resolve this situation exclusively through dialogue and diplomatic channels, not confrontation and interference. But let's face it, this is not what interests you because if it were, you would. You are interested in fuelling an incessant and obsessive political-media operation to turn Venezuela into a matter of internal politics, whose sole objective is to disallow and criminalize a political force with 5 million votes. [[Applauds]] For this they have not hesitated to use the State apparatus, making false reports, with false accusations that they have taken to prison for practices of mafia extortion to those who presented them.This is something very serious and unacceptable, and in a serious country the Minister of the Interior would already have had to resign. [[Rumors]] [[Prolonged applause from the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] Look, while I was preparing this speech I learned from the press that Minister Margallo was with a cohort of businessmen visiting Kazakhstan; a country that Amnesty International denounces year after year for hundreds of cases of torture, and there the minister announced that Spain will support his candidacy for the UN Security Council. That same day, I learned from the press, too, that the former head of state and the former foreign minister, Mr Moratinos, were at a state funeral in Saudi Arabia, a dictatorship that executed 158 people last year. [[Applauds]] I didn't hear anyone screaming in the sky, I didn't hear anyone screaming in the sky. Let us tell the truth, gentlemen of the PP, your priority interest in this issue is not to defend human rights, but to obtain political revenues for the electoral campaign. [[Rumors.-Mr. Martínez-Maillo Toribio utters words that are not perceived]] If that were not the case, if you brought to this House a genuine concern and commitment to political prisoners and human rights, perhaps we would talk here sometime about the more than 600 Palestinian prisoners... [[Rumors.-A guest from the public gallery:... They have been financed by the Government of Venezuela! Unhappiness!...-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u118	One moment, please. The public cannot intervene in any way. Please evict this person. [[You proceed to your eviction while you continue: Freedom, freedom!-Various Members: Freedom, freedom!-Protests and rumors]] Go on, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u119	In a democracy and in a Parliament you speak and listen, as I have listened to you and will continue to listen to you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u120	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u121	Come on, President. If that were not the case, if you brought to this House a genuine concern and commitment to political prisoners and human rights, perhaps we would talk here sometime about the 600 Palestinian prisoners who are detained without charges in Israeli prisons. [[Applauds.-Mrs. Martínez Saiz utters words that are not perceived.]] Perhaps we would talk, as mentioned earlier, about Brahim Saika, a Saharan trade unionist who died ten days ago on hunger strike after being arbitrarily arrested and tortured in Morocco. Perhaps we would talk about prisoners held without charge or trial and subjected to torture in Guantánamo. If your commitment were sincere, perhaps you would break the cooperation agreement that the People's Party has with the Communist Party of China; a country where there are thousands of political prisoners and executed every year. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u122	Mr. Bustinduy, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u123	I'm done, Mr. President. If your commitment were sincere, this Government, and the previous one too, would not have sold huge amounts of anti-disturbing material to that same Venezuelan Government that you censor and criticize every day in the media. [[Applauds]] No, ladies and gentlemen, no, your commitment is not sincere, but the important thing is that you are not responsible either. The best way to help the brotherly people of Venezuela coincides on this occasion with what is best for Spain and for our foreign policy. They support our amendment, use diplomacy, promote dialogue and mediation between the parties, stop using State policy to serve partisan purposes. Our democracy - this democracy - deserves something else. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Bravo!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, stood up.-Protests.- Various Members speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u124	Mr Gutiérrez Limones has the floor for the Socialist Group. [[Protests.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to calm this debate down a bit. Each person's life is unique, irreplaceable and irrevocable. In each of the humblest of people that each one of us can know is born the dignity that no one will ever live his life equal, so it is true that we cannot ask one another, demand one another, dedicate our life to no god, to no ideology, and not even to the salvation of the whole of humanity. Now, human beings are beings of encounter; we are not individual beings, isolated. We are born with the vocation to live together; together we are more and we are better. We live in towns and cities and build higher and higher ways of living together, but at the same time we cannot remain impassable when we look around us and there are people who do not have the minimum conditions to carry out their lives with dignity. Homo som, humane nihil to me fucking alien. I'm human and nothing human can be alien to me. Therefore, we cannot accept the victims of fate, just as we cannot accept that no one has the right to punish anyone for their thoughts or ideas; only for what is done is punished. [[Applauds]] The Spanish Parliament cannot therefore remain indifferent to the situation of political prisoners in Venezuela or the rest of the world. The etymological indifference means no difference. Wiesel, the Nobel Peace Prize winner and Holocaust survivor, said that indifference was a strange and artificial state that lay between light and darkness, dusk and dawn, crime and punishment, cruelty and compassion, good and harmful. For indifference, ladies and gentlemen, attracts us, tempts us, seduces us; for it is much easier to see the victim from afar. To love is a drawback in our life, because it is to get involved in pain and suffering, in the despair of the other person, and that breaks our daily life; it interrupts us in our dreams and our hopes. But he also said that indifference is not a beginning but an end. She's always a friend of the enemy, she's always the one who supports the aggressor. That is why a political prisoner in his cell, hungry children or homeless refugees can never think that we cannot look at them, that we cannot bring them a spark of hope, that we do not take part in their troubles and anguish, because simply at that moment - right at that time - we are exiled from human memory. I am sure that Leopoldo López, like any political prisoner in Venezuela or in the world, in the solitude of his cell the last thing he can think of is that his suffering is alien to the rest of his fellow men. When we deny humanity - its humanity - we are denying ourselves. The Socialist Party was born almost a century and a half ago, precisely because it was not indifferent to any injustice and because it fought for the freedom, equality and dignity of people. [[Applauds]] That is precisely why we support this non-legislative proposal. I'm done. We will support the compromise amendment and we will do so by adding two concepts: that of non-violence and that of dialogue. Our pretension is not to create more tension or to remove Venezuelans from the reunion and coexistence. That is why we strongly denounce this situation, but at the same time we say that we have to find mediators even if they do not have the ground to mediate. Because the day of the negotiation will come, the day of the future will come for reasons, the day of democracy, and we should have done more than simply denounce the obvious and point out the problems, because we will have to prove that the Spaniards have always been on the side of the solutions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Neruda said: I am sad to see the world that does not change. I know that some are content only with denouncing and lamenting the evils of this world; we socialists are not. We want to rule to change it even if it's just because we'll be a little closer to getting it. Good afternoon and thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u126	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez Limones. The Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban, has the floor in the position-setting round. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Once again the Venezuelan issue, when we have been discussing it recently also in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and a resolution was adopted. I say to you in advance that I welcome the agreement you have signed with the Socialist Party and that we are going to vote in favour because we believe that there is a human rights problem and, where it exists, we need to be clearly positioned in defence of them. And it's no excuse, it's not worth an excuse like the Guinea issue, which is true. It is curious that the agenda of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and of this plenary session is the subject of Venezuela and Cuba. But, Rita - I don't know if she's out there Rita Bosaho -, fellow Bubi, Guinean, but not from the same group, we are going to make the Guinean issue in the next parliamentary term part of the agenda of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and this plenary. I think we're gonna do it. [[Applauds]] It is no excuse, we are talking about Venezuela, but I also have to tell you one thing, nor do I like the Venezuelan theme being used for the use of internal politics. And frankly, Mr Martínez-Maillo, your speech has not been the most appropriate or the most balanced one to make a defense from a position of external observer of Venezuela. I do not think that you have done Mr López's defence or the situation a great deal of favor in order to make progress in democracy in Venezuela. Nor do I breastfeed with some things because in this country newspapers have been closed, such as Egunkaria in 2003, and there were people imprisoned, so that later in 2010 the Spanish courts would say that this newspaper did not have to be closed, that there was no connection with ETA, and then neither has it been economically repaired nor anything at all. [[Applauds]] And the same thing happened with Gara in 1998, because in 2009 there was a court decision that said it was all absurd. So, let's put things in place. The situation in Venezuela is special. What I've been living there, of course, cannot be said to be a normalized situation. No one has questioned the question of voting. He did not doubt when Chávez won or when the current president, Maduro, won. I was there and I saw what there was, I saw that there was also clear media pressure in favour of the government and that the situation on the streets was not normal. It was not the streets of Madrid, Bilbao or London, that was something very different; nor was it the transmission of the media. But now we cannot question the Venezuelan Government - just as the others did not question its legitimacy, we have not questioned the legitimacy of the Government to be there, to exercise its powers - we cannot deny the legitimacy of the new Parliament to pass laws; one of them, the amnesty and national reconciliation law. What's wrong with this amnesty law? That with all the international parameters, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and all the international reports that have been produced say that the Supreme Court's ruling is objectively not compatible with this, with justice and with the laws, and that cannot be overlooked. We must therefore say that we have a problem. What is the charge of taking the streets, which Mrs. Enbeitia used to say? You have also called for the streets to be occupied, and I do not think that this has to be a fact to put someone in jail, nor do I think that there has been a connection between any specific crime and any concrete violence on the streets that can be combined with Mr López or with other political leaders. There can therefore be no denying that there is a human rights problem. If not, how would it be understood when all the heads of the opposition are imprisoned? That is not a normal situation and it cannot be said that the entire opposition is criminals. No one believes that either. It's not acceptable. There is an obvious problem of citizen insecurity that we have to help normalize and that requires political dialogue, but political dialogue can be a reality from the moment we affirm rights for all and also respect for all political options. There is also an economic problem of serious shortages. The truth is that political opponents, leaders of political choices contrary to the Government, go to prison with very generic accusations and with trials that are postponed, some without a sentence, in a regime of isolation, and this should not be acceptable under any regime, and in a regime that is called popular and close to the people neither, should it be even less so. I think we have to maintain a certain balance. The legitimacy of the Venezuelan Government must be recognized in order to be there, but the legitimacy of Parliament must also be recognized, and the opposition cannot be held in that way, on generic charges, incarcerated. We believe that the terms in which the content has been raised - not so much the statement by some spokesman - the proposal being made between the People's Party and the Socialist Party is reasonable and we will therefore vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u128	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, some parliamentary groups and individual parliamentarians have been working on human rights for a long time, and even Mr Gutiérrez Limones' speech has seemed to me that the debate in this plenary session has been very disrespectful to the representatives of the Venezuelan democratic opposition. When some spoke of Venezuela they did not speak of Venezuela, and when some replied to those who had started their speech about Venezuela they did not speak of Venezuela either. We have long believed in human rights in a serious way and without double standards. We are concerned about human rights in Venezuela and Saudi Arabia. In the annual debate on the sale of arms in the Defence Committee, it is a classic internalisation of foreign policy as a bold weapon between parliamentary groups in this House. This is unfortunate, it's pathetic, it's the typical scrap pin of a failed legislature like this one has been. [[Applauds]] You haven't lived up to the circumstances. Here we have come up to the rostrum to talk about foreign policy, someone we have never seen before in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, someone who prioritizes the internal agenda and internal wear and tear and not the defence of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to talk about human rights, in this Congress of Deputies there has been a parliamentary intergroup on human rights for years, and only two of the people who have come to the rostrum so far are part of it. The rest are people who are using the last round of the last plenary session of this failed legislature for wear and tear within the internal political debate. [[Applauds]] You have submitted a non-law proposal that you have agreed with other groups. We are going to vote in favour. I met with Antonio Ledesma before he was the metropolitan mayor of Caracas, I also met with some of the political prisoners who are now in prison, and we do not consider that human rights have to be a matter of wear, with which, in the end, those watching us from the rostrum or from the media or from social networks see an absolutely unconstructive exercise. There is no democracy in Venezuela, and we are talking about Venezuela. If someone makes a non-law proposal about other countries we will talk about other countries. I have heard with amazement how the example of the voting system in Venezuela has been set as an exemplary system. I was an observer in the elections in Venezuela with Senator Iñaki Anasagasti and in a market we were able to buy a CD containing the list Maisanta, which was sold in the streets of Caracas. When we arrived at the hotel, Mr Anasagasti was able to know exactly the record of all his votes as a Spanish citizen and Venezuelan citizen, what he had voted in all the elections and in all the referendums, with which there is no electoral system, there is no democracy in Venezuela. We are concerned and concerned about the human rights situation in Venezuela, but we see with deep concern how this final parliamentary term serves, when you speak of Venezuela, not to speak of Venezuela, and when some reply about Venezuela, not to speak precisely of Venezuela. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of this parliamentary term and tomorrow we will validate a real decree which for the first time will be validated without a solid majority in this House. I hope that the Government has had the capacity to engage in dialogue to pass it, because it has never happened in thirty-seven years of democratic life that a royal decree has not been validated by the Congress of Deputies. But this final debate is a debate that, if you want to have it, we had a week ago in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. If you really care about human rights you will be very welcome in the intergroup of human rights, but this debate shows the worst of this legislature, of this declining, dwindling and short-term legislature; a legislature that, as I told you, is the scrap pin of an ego festival, of an inability of the pact, of an inability of understanding and of an inability to respond to the legitimate claims of the people of Catalonia, which has democratically raised a contentious. Without this contentious, there would surely be government and stability in Spain at the moment. You haven't been able to give an answer. We will continue to defend human rights, freedom and democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u130	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u131	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, the truth is that human rights can even be talked about in the Congress of Deputies, not just in the intergroup of human rights, because of the importance of talking about human rights. I have in my hands an initiative that Citizens have put forward to talk about human rights in Equatorial Guinea in the Foreign Affairs Committee. Some of us have talked about the human rights of Equatorial Guinea and, of course, we are going to talk about human rights in Venezuela today. You don't have to look for excuses to get the wrong button by voting. [[Applauds]] If something has proved Europe's history, it is not enough to say that a country has democracy by having ballot boxes. In Germany, in the 1930s, those who committed the greatest barbarity of history won in the polls, and there was a great learning of history: the Democrats signed the Human Rights Charter in 1948 precisely so that the ballots were not enough but that human rights should be respected. There is therefore no democracy in Venezuela because, even if there are ballot boxes, human rights are not respected. [[Applauds]] In the short time that I have I cannot speak nor will I speak about the disastrous and chaotic economic and social situation of our Venezuelan compatriots. A few days ago I met with the Ambassador of Colombia and the Commissioner for Peace and they explained to me the influx of Venezuelans, a country that has historically been rich, on Colombian borders in search of medicines and to be cared for in Colombian health. This is not the case in a rich country like Venezuela, it is the result of harmful, unfortunate economic and social policies, which in no case can be an example to follow but something to forget and never to apply in a country like Spain. [[Applauds]] But, in addition to coming up to this rostrum as a deputy and spokesman for my group, today I also raise as a friend of a person who accompanies us, Leopoldo López Gil, the father of Leopoldo López, who is here today in the rostrum. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, standing in the guest gallery]] Thank you, Leopoldo, for being here. Leopoldo, in this House we are such a democratic country that those who are not a majority have the right to speak with exactly the same time as groups that have more votes and those who have even defended positions justifying terrorism in Spain have a parliamentary group. On the other hand, in your country you cannot even exercise democracy those who are the majority. [[Applauds]] But I want to say one thing to all the colleagues in Venezuela who are accompanying us today: luckily, what we are going to tell here are votes and seats and here 75% of this House is going to give a hug and will support the Venezuelan Democrats, for the loud and shameful applause that we have heard in this House. So the applause and the 75% vote will have it when we vote on this resolution. And that's a message to the world too. Spain cannot remain looking elsewhere, neither in Guinea, nor in Iran, nor in Saudi Arabia, nor in Venezuela, Mr. Iglesias. We are therefore going to vote for all the democrats in favour of democracy. In conclusion, I also want to tell you that we are not only playing what is happening in Venezuela, we are also playing the role of Spain at the international level. Here's Leopoldo López's book written from prison. [[Show the book]] An opponent, who could be any of us, who writes from prison. Besides, I'm lucky to have the signature of Leopoldo's father, mother and wife, which I appreciate and value. And I tell you one thing: sooner than later in Venezuela there will be real democracy, sooner than later, and everything that Spain and the Spanish nation can do for Venezuela will do, because the Spanish, 75% of this House, we are with you and we will do everything in our power to help you. So now, gentlemen, it is up to the Spanish Democrats to vote. For the citizens who see us - as they don't know - there are three buttons in the seats: a green button, a red button and a yellow button; the only skillful button for the Democrats today is green; the red or yellow button is the one that would push Mr Maduro or Mr Chávez if he were alive, but the Democrats and the majority opponents in Venezuela would push the green button. [[Rumors]] So, you choose. If you want to vote for what Maduro, the leader of some of those who are here, the ideological referent of some of the groups in this House, go ahead, but some of us are not going to be wrong about a button, we are going to press the green button from yes to freedom, from yes to democracy. I wish we could join this initiative, but Mr. Maduro would be angry with them and that would have consequences for Podemos. [[Applauds]] Therefore, on behalf of the 3.5 million Spaniards we represent, and I am convinced that the Democrats in this House on our left and on our right too, here there are no ideologies, here there are democratic values, and today the majority of Spaniards are going to vote in this House for democracy. [[Rumors]] I end with a phrase from one of our presidents, Manuel Azaña, who said that freedom does not make men better or worse, it simply makes us men. That's right, free for Venezuela! [[Citizen Parliamentary Group applause, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u132	Thank you, Mr. Rivera. We shall now proceed to today's votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u133	First, it takes into consideration the proposed law of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies for the creation of the register of interest groups or lobbies. [[Democracy and Freedom]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 329.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u134	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u135	We then vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Basque Parliamentary Group, reforming Law 9/1968 of 5 April, on official secrets. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 219 against, 111.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u136	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u137	Let us proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate and vote, first of all,...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u138	Mr President, just to ask whether it would be possible to vote separately on the non-legislative proposal from Podemos because, as we have said, the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to vote against the labour reform of the People's Party and to open a new process of social dialogue. [[Mrs Bescansa Hernández asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u139	One moment, Mrs Bescansa, because she had not yet said what we were going to vote on. We will vote for the non-law proposal of the Parliamentary Group We can on the repeal of labour reforms and when some group asks to vote for points, the group that has proposed the non-law proposal must accept it, otherwise it could not be done. Mrs. Bescansa.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u140	To the extent that in drafting the amendment the Socialist Party was proposed to break down by points or to establish a negotiation by points... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u141	Yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u142	...and the Socialist Party did not accept it, we did not vote for it by points. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u143	Then we will vote for the non-law proposal in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 81 against, 116 abstentions, 135.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u144	It's rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the Early Liberation of Political Press in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. [[File number 162/000031]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u145	We then voted for the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the prompt release of political prisoners in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. In principle, we are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, unless some group opposes it. [[Mr Tardà i Coma asks for the floor]] Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u146	We would like to see a vote on the terms in which it was tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u147	We cannot then vote on the compromise, but we can ask Mr Martínez-Maillo whether we vote on it in his terms or accept the addition of some of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u148	Of course, this parliamentary trick is not going to help avoid the vote on the Socialist Group's amendment as well, and we can all vote together for Venezuela's freedom. Of course we accept the proposal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u149	We will then vote for the non-law proposal with the Socialist Group's amendment to add. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 250 against, 12 abstentions, 66. [[Prolonged applause, with the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group standing in the guest gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-27-CD160427.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and fifty-five minutes of the night.
